# Site: https://www.southampton.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 470
# --------

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk:
Shape your future with a postgraduate degree from Southampton.
We'll prepare you for your career, support you in your studies, and give you access to world-class facilities.
There's still time to apply for 2025.
Source: Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025 , QS World University Rankings 2026
Source: Higher Education Statistics Agency Graduate Outcomes latest data
Tel: +44(0)23 8059 5000 Fax: +44(0)23 8059 3131
University of Southampton University Road Southampton SO17 1BJ United Kingdom
Download a copy of our prospectus or order a printed copy to be delivered to your door.
© 2025 University of Southampton

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/in:
University of Southampton Delhi is the first campus of its kind in India - and a proud part of University of Southampton, a global Top 100 university, and part of the Russell Group, the UK's top-tier of elite universities.
We are regulated in India by University Grants Commission (UGC) to operate our campus and deliver programmes.
Source: QS Graduate Employability Rankings, 2022
A group of prestigious UK research-intensive universities, and equivalent to the US ‘Ivy League’
Our programmes are taught in English, and content is equivalent to that delivered to other University of Southampton students.
To match the programme lengths of internationally respected UK awarded degrees, undergraduates study for three years, and postgraduates study for one year.
The University of Southampton Delhi campus is conveniently located for student travel, staff access and the wider business community.
This is the perfect mix of world-class, high-value education in a safe, familiar, local environment, avoiding the complexities of studying abroad at a younger age.
Globally ranked in the top 100 of international league tables, University of Southampton is a world-leading university.
The rankings, based on criteria including employability and international outlook, are an independent mark of the quality of research and teaching that the University offers.
University of Southampton is a founding member of the UK’s research-intensive Russell Group of universities (an 'Ivy League' for the UK).
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use our website, remember your settings and provide you with the best possible experience.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content form their services.
Essential Cookies are crucial for the basic functioning of a website.
They enable core features like navigation, security, and access to protected areas of the site, ensuring users can move through pages and use services without issues.
Functional Cookies enhance the user experience by remembering preferences and settings.
For example, they may store language preferences or login details, allowing a website to provide personalized content without requiring users to re-enter information.
Analytical Cookies collect data about how visitors use a website, helping website owners improve functionality and performance.
These cookies track metrics like the number of visitors, pages viewed, and user interactions.
Part of the
Campus address: International Tech Park Gurgaon, Near Sec 59, Off Golf Course Ext Road, Gurugram, Haryana 122101

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about:
Join our community of staff, students and researchers at the University of Southampton.
As a global top 100 university, our expert academics and wide range of study options will help you achieve your goals.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/open-days:
Find out more about undergraduate and postgraduate study at the University, through open days, virtual events, school visits and other events designed to support you on your journey to University.
Book events now.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/alumni-supporters.page:
Take advantage of a range of services and discounts available to our alumni
Donate your time by volunteering or make a gift to support our work
Find out about the global community of Southampton alumni and how you can be a part of it
Meet up with other alumni at a reunion, lecture or reception
Read the latest issue of Hartley News Online
Share your skills and gain new experiences by volunteering for the University
Download a PDF of our prospectus or order a printed copy to be delivered to your door.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/faculties-schools-departments:
Our world-class teaching and research activities are delivered across 5 faculties, each of which hosts several subject-specific schools and departments.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/news.page:
Discover the latest news from the University of Southampton, including news about our research, enterprise and teaching activities.
Our world-leading academics and researchers share their expertise on global issues and topics.
Our staff, students and research are making the headlines.
Discover our recent coverage in the media.
Get in touch with our Press team with all media enquiries.
Explore the recent and upcoming events being hosted by the University.
Information about our position after the EU referendum result.
Discover the world-changing research being carried out across the University.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/news/events.page:
From high-profile lectures to music concerts and meditation sessions, we host a wide variety of events for our students, staff and the wider community.
Check our events calendar to see what's on around campus.
Discover the events happening at our arts venues
Visit us at an Open Day to discover what it is like to live and study in Southampton.
Find out the dates of our graduation ceremonies and plan your day.
Visit our Schools and Colleges web pages to find events for school and college students, teachers and higher education advisers and parents.
The Engagement & Advancement Events team supports events activity for both The Office of Development and Alumni Relations and the Communication and Marketing team.
The team manages an annual programme of high profile events relating to brand development and engagement as well as supporting the Alumni strategy in the UK and internationally.
The team also provides advice and guidance on event management for the University community.
The team can be contacted via; events@southampton.ac.uk
Or for events relating specifically to our Alumni Community via: events@soton.ac.uk
More details on our alumni offering can be found here .
The University’s Conference, Events and Hospitality Office is responsible for the management of conference/meeting rooms, accommodation, function rooms and associated catering and hospitality services across our University campuses, further information can be found on their website .
The team can be contacted via; 023 8059 2832 hospitality@southampton.ac.uk
Get a feel for the University by visiting our campuses at one of our Open Days, further information including how to register for a visit can be found here .
The team can be contacted via; 023 8059 5900 visit@southampton.ac.uk
The events team is part of the University of Southampton Students' Union and delivers the Unions' highest profile student events.
The team can be contacted via; suevents@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/contact:
Find contact details for our Southampton and Delhi campuses, with links to our Winchester and Malaysia contact details.
If you have questions about a course, you can contact us through the course enquiry form at the end of the page.
Go to Winchester School of Art homepage for contact details.
Visit University of Southampton Malaysia homepage for contact details.
Go to University of Southampton Delhi homepage for contact details.
Tel.
+44 (0)23 8059 5000
Fax +44 (0)23 8059 3131
University of Southampton University Road Southampton SO17 1BJ
Email: enquiries@southampton.ac.uk
To find the contact details for a specific faculty or department visit our departments page .
You can contact us for support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Get in touch using our online chat, or by emailing or phoning us.
Online chat Email: studenthub@soton.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)23 8059 9599 www.southampton.ac.uk/studentservices/Index.page
Email: international@southampton.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)23 8059 2772 (08.00-17.00 GMT, Monday-Friday)
Email: partnerships@southampton.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)23 8059 9446
Email: studyabroad@southampton.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)23 8059 1723
If you would like a printed copy of the Prospectus, you can order your copy here .
+44 (0)23 8059 5959 Email: accommodation@southampton.ac.uk
Or visit the accommodation webpages .
General enquiries: +44 (0)23 8059 2421
+44 (0)23 8059 2747 Email: alumni@southampton.ac.uk or supportus@southampton.ac.uk
For issues relating to the University's website, please email serviceline@soton.ac.uk
+44 (0)23 8059 3212 Email: press@southampton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)23 8059 2832 Email: hospitality@southampton.ac.uk www.southampton.ac.uk/hospitality
+44 (0)23 8059 5200 Email: susu@southampton.ac.uk
For business enquiries, visit our Get in touch page Tel: 023 8059 3095
Use the enquiry form to ask any questions or sign-up for updates about courses that you are interested in.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study:
As a top 20 UK university, we offer a variety of innovative degrees and courses across 65 subject areas.
As well as full time on-campus learning, we also offer other convenient study options such as online, evening and CPD courses.
We're ranked 20 in The Complete University Guide 2025.
We were awarded a Silver rating in the 2018 Teaching Excellence Framework.
97% of graduates enter employment or further study according to the Higher Education Statistics Agency Graduate Outcomes latest data 2023.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life:
Explore on-campus and online options
Cycle routes and Unilink buses make it easy to get around town.
You'll get a free bus pass if you live in University-owned halls of residence in Southampton.
Our city is filled with parks and waterside walks.
You’ll study and relax among the trees and gardens on our campuses.
Our south coast location makes us one of the warmest and sunniest places to study in the UK.
Our international city never stops.
Come and experience our football, live music, theatre, great food, shopping and more.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research:
Collaborating across disciplines, we tackle today’s global challenges alongside industry, government, and research institutions.
Source: REF 2021

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business:
Whatever your organisation size, you can grow your business with our help.
We work with regional, national and international businesses, from SMEs to large corporations.
Source: QS World University Rankings, 2025
Source: Research Excellence Framework, 2021
Source: Knowledge Exchange Framework, 2024

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/global-connections.page:
Global partnerships are crucial to realising our ambition to change the world fo...
Learn more about our position after the European Union referendum result.
Learn more about our strong links with the Commonwealth.
Explore our close relationships with talented people and organisations across the world
Learn more about research awards, contracts and grants
Each year we offer a number of prestigious Diamond Jubilee International Visiting Fellowships
You may be able to access funding through the University's many international partnerships
Join the University of Southampton's vibrant international student community.
You will receive a warm welcome and plenty of support to help you succeed
Face-to-face contact is the best way of getting to know us.
Find out where we will be in the near future
Find out more about our top engineering courses and explore our campus in Malaysia
Our portal has resources for agents and representatives of the University of Southampton (requires log-in)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses:
From Accounting and Finance to Zoology.
Discover undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses at Southampton.
You could:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught:
Gain the edge with a postgraduate degree as you prepare for a career in your chosen subject.
Our 7,000 postgraduate students have access to expert academics and world-class facilities.
Source: Complete University Guide 2026
Make friends and find your ultimate hobby.
Source: QS World Rankings for Sustainability 2025.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/fees/postgraduate.page:
The price you'll pay for postgraduate study at Southampton depends on the type of degree you're studying for and whether you're a home or overseas student.
Channel Island, Isle of Man and Irish students will be charged the same tuition fee as Home students.
Your fees will increase each year.
If you're a Southampton alumni or in your last year of undergraduate study, you may be entitled to a 10% discount on your postgraduate fees .
You can find 2025 entry tuition fee costs for full-time courses on our postgraduate taught course pages .
For other versions of our postgraduate taught courses, such as part-time, you can check the table below.
You can find tuition fee costs for all our research programmes in the table below.
Home PGR tuition fees increase every year.
Overseas PGR students starting from 1st August 2026 may be subject to an annual increase in tuition fees.
You can check your fee status if you don't know whether you're a home or overseas student.
Find out how and when to pay your tuition fees .
Students who defer their place will pay the tuition fees set for the academic year they start their studies.
If needed, you can access full fee information from previous years .
Home research students' fees increase each year so you should use the fee table (towards the end of this page) for next year's fees.
If you're an international student studying on a full time course, we'll ask you to pay £2,000 of your tuition fee in advance as a deposit.
We will send you details of how to pay this deposit and full terms and conditions and in your offer letter.
You might be able to get help to cover some of your costs when you come to study at Southampton.
This help can come from many different places and organisations.
Find out about the government loans & financial support available to postgraduate students studying at Southampton.
Our academic departments often offer funding in specific subject areas.
This could be in the form of scholarships, bursaries or studentships.
There are a range of scholarships and awards available to postgraduate students at Southampton.
These are offered by governments, external organisations or the University.
You can find 2025 entry tuition fees for all our postgraduate taught courses in the table below.
The tuition fees quoted are the fees you pay for year one of study .
Full time PGT courses are usually charged for 1 year and part time courses are usually charged 50% over 2 years making the cost of the course the same as the full time version.
If your full time PGT course is more than 1 year your fees will increase each year of study.
Any exceptions will be clearly shown on the table below
If you repeat a period of study you will be charged additional tuition fees.
Fees will increase each year.
If you started your taught postgraduate course before September you can find your tuition fee information on the Student Hub website.
You can find 2025/26 entry tuition fees here for all our postgraduate research courses starting from 1st August 2025 to 31st July 2026, including the fees for our continuing Home PGR students.
The tuition fees quoted are the fees you pay for the academic year.
PGR fees increase each year.
The Home PGR tuition fee will be published on the UoS website once they are announced by UK Research and Innovation in the Spring.
Tuition fees are charged for every year of study.
If you are an Overseas student who started your postgraduate research programme before August you can find your tuition fee information on the Student Hub website.
Students who first enrolled before 1 August 2020: a single payment becomes payable if the student continues in nominal registration six months after transfer £110.
Students who first enrolled on or after 1 August 2020: a single fee becomes payable at the start of the nominal registration period £250.
Fees for all postgraduate research degrees starting in 2025.
You can contact the Student Hub or the Students' Union if you have any questions about fees or funding.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/funding/postgraduate.page:
There are many ways to help fund your postgraduate studies at Southampton.
Your options will depend on what course you're studying and where you're from.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/pre-masters-programmes:
The Pre-Master’s Programme is designed to prepare international students for postgraduate study in the UK.
Upon successful completion, it will enable you to progress onto your chosen Master’s degree if you don’t meet our requirements for direct entry.
The Programme allow students to improve their English while learning the study skills and research methods they will need during their Master’s degree.
The duration of the programme is two semesters.
Each semester consists of a minimum of 13 teaching weeks.
Students will undertake 21 hours of classroom-based study per week.
Students will be expected to timetable self-study hours in addition to the classroom-based hours.
Please note: Learning hours are estimated and may be adjusted throughout the course.
As part of these hours, all students will study Academic English Language Development up to 6 hours per week.
All OnCampus Pre-Master’s students will study the following modules:
Each module will have an assessment schedule, which will be completed by the end of the appropriate semester.
Assessments will be designed to demonstrate learning across the individual modules of the programme and to allow you to experience a wide range of the assessment methods used in UK postgraduate programmes.
Assessments will include coursework, essays, reports and other structured assignments and oral examinations.
During your Pre-Master’s Programme you’ll benefit from:
You’ll be a member of the University of Southampton community from the moment you start, with access to:
Find out more about Pre-Master’s Programmes on the OnCampus Southampton webpage .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/apply:
Once you’ve found a postgraduate taught programme, you can apply using our online application system.
Find out how to apply for postgraduate taught study at the University of Southampton, including our online application form, funding options and entry requirements.
Select a postgraduate taught course via our course finder pages to find the course that is right for you.
If you are still making up your mind about coming to study at the University of Southampton, join us on one of our postgraduate days and visits .
Check entry requirements on the course page for your chosen course as some courses have subject requirements as well.
International students can check our country specific information on entry requirements.
There is a lot of competition for places on some of our courses.
Even if you meet the criteria for the course, we may not be able to make you an offer.
You will need to submit documents to support your application.
Please check the how to apply section for the course you are applying to and have your supporting documents ready to upload to the online application portal.
The required documents will vary depending on your course, but typically include:
a personal statement A personal statement offers you the chance to explain why you want to study your chosen course, your academic and relevant work experience, and how a master's will help you with your future career aspirations.
Depending on the course you apply for, you may be asked to provide additional information, such as:
The application system will know which course you are applying for and the required documents for that specific course will show in that section of the application form.
If you don’t have all the required documents when you start your application, you can save your application as a draft and come back later.
You will not be able to submit your application until all the required documents have been attached.
All our courses are taught in English (other than in Modern Languages) all applicants must demonstrate that they possess a minimum standard of English language proficiency to be admitted to a course at Southampton.
The University recognises a wide range of English language tests and other qualifications.
Please visit our English Language entry requirements page for further details.
The University's Language Centre offers a range of English language courses to help you improve your English language skills and to reach the University's English language entry requirements.
Before you apply, check the application deadline on the page for your course.
We advise you to apply early as we may close earlier in the year to applications from some countries.
We do this because we want to ensure that we:
Make sure you leave enough time for any additional requirements such as applying for visas and funding .
Click on the 'Apply for this course' button on the individual course page which takes you to our postgraduate admissions system or click here to go to our online application portal .
You will need to create an account which gives you access to your own application portal.
Once you’ve done this, search for the course you want to apply for.
Complete the application form and upload any supporting documents.
You'll be able to save and review your application before submitting it.
Before you can submit your application to us, you will be required to pay a non-refundable application assessment fee of £50.
Some applicants are exempt from paying the application assessment fee - check our terms and conditions for exemptions.
View application assessment fee terms and conditions
We recommend that you visit the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website for guidance on 'home' fee eligibility for applicants to Higher Education in England.
To assist us in determining the level of tuition fees that you will be charged for your course, we ask you to select a statement.
The statement you select will be considered along with other relevant details provided in your application when calculating your fee status, in accordance with the relevant regulations.
We will ask you to select the statement which best represents your circumstances from the following options:
Check each section in your application carefully to make sure you have answered all the questions and uploaded all the supporting documents required, then submit your application.
We will send you an email to confirm your application has been successfully submitted.
If we need any further information, we will contact you via your applicant portal.
Once you have submitted your application, you will be able to view your application but you will not be able to make any changes.
We offer a wide range of merit and competitive scholarships for international students at postgraduate level.
Further details can be found on our Scholarships web page .
Find out what happens after you apply, including tracking your application, and receiving and accepting an offer.
Use your account login details to track the progress of your application in the application portal.
In your Applicant Home you can:
Because of the volume of applications, we might not be able to give you specific feedback on your application if it's not successful.
If you receive an offer from us, it is stated as either conditional or unconditional.
Your offer could be conditional for a number of reasons, such as:
The offer letter will clearly state any academic or non-academic conditions that you need to meet along with the given deadlines.
We will ask you to send us evidence confirming that you have satisfied the conditions specified in your offer letter.
You should upload the evidence in your applicant portal.
You will also be able to see your deadlines on your applicant portal.
Your offer could be unconditional if you have already met all the academic and non-academic requirements for entry and you don't need to pay a deposit for your course.
If your offer was initially conditional and you have met all the academic and non-academic conditions of your offer, we will send you an unconditional offer via the applicant portal.
You will not be required to meet any further conditions, but you will still need to accept your offer via the applicant portal if you have not already done so.
If you are an international student, you can apply for your visa when you receive an unconditional offer.
You will be sent a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number and CAS statement no earlier than 6 months before the start of your course.
You must accept your offer by the date stated in your offer letter.
This deadline refers to your acceptance of the offer, not the fulfilment of any conditions.
You should respond to your offer in your applicant portal.
Unfortunately, if you fail to respond by this deadline, your offer will be withdrawn automatically.
If you do want to accept the offer, please leave enough time to do this as we might not be able to re-instate an offer once it is withdrawn due to capacity on some courses.
If you need more time to accept your offer, please send us a portal comment via your applicant portal.
If you're an international student we'll ask you to pay £2,000 of your tuition fees in advance, as a deposit .
You will be exempt from this payment if you are:
The deposit scheme applies to most of our full-time postgraduate courses.
Check the 'Fees, Costs and Funding' tab on your course to see if it applies.
Your deposit needs to be paid after you accept your offer and your offer letter will tell you when the deposit needs to be paid, and provides full terms and conditions.
If you need more time to pay your deposit, please contact us via your application portal and we may be able to extend your deposit deadline.
Unfortunately, if you fail to pay the deposit by the deadline, and don’t ask us for a deposit deadline extension your offer may be withdrawn.
If you are being fully funded, please send us confirmation of the funding, via your application portal and we will be able to waive the deposit condition.
Find out how to pay your deposit .
We do give deposit refunds in certain circumstances.
Our refund policy provides more details.
While you're waiting for us to assess your application, follow us on social media and watch out for our emails to make sure you get all the relevant information before you study here.
Visit our website and find out more about our vibrant and supportive student life , as well as our campuses, accommodation options, sports and gyms.
We look forward to welcoming you to our postgraduate community!
Some programmes of study are not available via the online application form, or may have a late start date.
If you can't find the course you are looking for on the online application, or have any questions about applying, please contact our admissions team for guidance.
You can also read our admissions policies in more detail.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/offer-holder:
Congratulations if you have a postgraduate offer to study at the University of Southampton.
This page will guide you through the tasks you need to do and what you need to know.
It also lists the help and support available to you.
If you are an international student, find out if we will be at an event near you or speak to staff online .
You first need to accept your offer to study in your applicant portal.
Please do this before the acceptance deadline which you can find on your applicant portal.
Do this before arranging accommodation, or flights if you are an international student.
You can apply for accommodation from 2 April and to be covered by our accommodation guarantee , you must apply for accommodation by 1 July.
You can apply for accommodation even if your offer is conditional.
You have a range of options available to you as a student.
Find out more about:
We also offer accommodation to meet specific needs, such as:
Find out more about your accommodation options .
If you are an international student, you will need to have your visa before you can start your studies.
You can start this process once your offer is unconditional accepted.
Find out how to:
The academic year starts on Monday 22 September 2025.
To be ready for the start of the academic year, you should move into your accommodation between the 19 to 21 September.
Find out our term dates .
You can arrange for our meet and greet team to welcome you at either London Heathrow airport or London Gatwick airport.
Bookings open in August and the service is free, but spaces are limited.
Find out more about our Meet and Greet service .
Enrolment starts on Friday 1 August 2025.
You must have an unconditional accepted offer and an IT account before you can enrol.
After you enrol you should:
Find out more on our Welcome page for new students .
Find out from students and staff about student life at the University of Southampton.
Watch recordings of our online events where you will learn about:
You can also chat to students and staff online and ask them questions about student life, the campus, the city, or your course.
Learn about:
Depending on your needs, we offer:
Find out more about the support we offer to students .
Our students’ union is here to help you and make your stay more enjoyable through:
Learn more about our students’ union community .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/pre-sessional:
Pre-sessional courses are a way to develop your English for academic purposes before starting a degree.
Passing one means that you will not need to take an English language test to enrol on your degree programme.
They also give you the opportunity to:
Read more about what the courses cover and how they are assessed.
You can take any of the courses online or in person on our campus in Southampton.
To study in person you’ll need a student visa , unless you are a UK resident.
The English language band that you can achieve at the end of this course depends on the length of the course and your IELTS score at the start.
Apply for a course that:
We offer pre-sessional courses of 16, 11 or 6 weeks.
A longer course will give you more opportunities for learning and feedback.
To decide which course is right for you, you'll need to:
We use the University of Southampton English Language Proficiency Bands in our entry requirements and pre-sessional courses.
These are based on International English Testing System (IELTS) scores .
IELTS gives an overall score and a score for the individual components:
At the end of your pre-sessional English course you will achieve one of these English language bands.
Find out more about how the tests are assessed .
We also accept other equivalent qualifications .
View our English Language requirements, proficiency bands and equivalent IELTS scores .
You can find the overall IELTS score that you need for your degree course:
Here is an example of course entry requirements: Accounting and Finance (BSc) .
Note: at this time, pre-sessional courses cannot be used for progression onto undergraduate medicine degrees.
15 May 2025
4 September 2025
17 April 2025
24 April 2025
£7,920
19 June 2025
22 May 2025
29 May 2025
£5,775
10 July 2025
21 August 2025
12 June 2025
£3,510
You will need to fill in an application form to apply for your chosen course.
To secure your place, you will need to pay a £500 deposit.
We will email you information on how to make the deposit after we get your application.
The deposit is non-refundable and will go towards paying the total fee of your chosen pre-sessional course.
It cannot be transferred to your degree programme.
Apply now
You may be able to change your course from online to on campus, or from campus to online, if you let us know before the deposit payment deadline.
You may be able to change from a longer course to a shorter one after you have applied if you:
If you are studying on campus, you are guaranteed a place in university accommodation throughout your pre-sessional course.
You will be able to book accommodation in one of 7 halls of residence run by the University.
Compare halls of residence
If you do not want to live on campus you can look for private accommodation.
Learn more about accommodation options for pre-sessional students.
We also have a meet and greet option for students arriving at Heathrow.
If you would like advice or more information before applying, or if you want to change or cancel your course, contact our Admissions Team:
If you need help with visas or Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), contact our Visa and Immigration Student Advice Service (VISAS).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects:
Explore the subjects you can study at the University of Southampton using our subject finder.
Find out about the expert staff and facilities available to you as a student.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
Let us help you change the world.
Take your research degree at Southampton, where over 96% of our research has been assessed as world leading and internationally excellent.
Find out about our vibrant international community, global exchange links and our diverse city.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/create-project:
A research proposal is a short document that summarises the research you want to undertake.
If you cannot find a suitable advertised project, this is a route to create your own.
When creating a research proposal, you’ll need to consider the question or issue you want to address with your project.
Think about the background of the subject and how your research will be an original contribution to the field.
You’ll also need to think about the methods you'll use to conduct this research.
Your proposal helps us assess your suitability for a research degree and decide if we can offer you the right supervision.
You may want to make contact with 1 or more potential supervisors to discuss project ideas.
They may also be able to help with funding your degree .
You can search our academics to find a supervisor whose research interests align to yours.
When you find a match, contact them to discuss your proposals.
Allow time for responses and to consider their feedback.
Learn how to make a supervisor enquiry
You should keep it clear, objective and realistic.
Include:
Your research proposal should include:
It’s best to write with short paragraphs and sentences.
You can use images and diagrams if it’s appropriate.
Your potential supervisor will inform you of when to start the application process and how to include the details of your agreed project.
More about how to apply

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects:
Explore our current postgraduate research degree and PhD opportunities.
This project pioneers deep learning for turbulence modeling, focusing on wall-bounded flows.
By combining convolutional neural networks (CNNs), generative adversarial networks (GANs), and physics-informed methods, it aims to develop hybrid predictive models that overcome current limitations.
The research supports scalable, accurate simulations of multi-scale phenomena, advancing computational design across energy, transport, and biomedical applications.
Modern lightweight space structures face harsh environments and often exhibit nonlinear dynamics due to contacts, friction, and geometric nonlinearities.
This project combines numerical, analytical, and experimental methods to develop physics-informed machine learning tools for efficient nonlinear system identification, enabling accurate modelling and validation of the next-generation space technologies.
The Department of Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering at the University of Southampton is offering PhD scholarships focused on using active thermography to inspect aerospace composites.
The project aims to improve how defects are detected and analysed in aircraft materials, helping ensure safer and more efficient maintenance.
​​Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease, with a complex biology.
In this PhD project, we aim to explore the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) compounds derived from Brassica species, for example: broccoli.
The results may lead to a novel treatment options for AD.​
This project focusses on the development of a next-generation high-fidelity topology optimisation (TopOpt) framework for thermofluid systems.
It aims to advance simulation-driven design tools to automatically generate complex flow and heat transfer structures with superior performance to conventional designs.
Transport symbolism, which refers to what a user perceives their travel mode says about them, is an important influencer of modal choice.
&nbsp;This project builds upon qualitative work, by quantitatively examining how different transport users across varying cultures rate symbolic considerations relative to instrumental measures when choosing a travel mode.
This project aims to develop cutting-edge on-device continual learning for resource-constrained robots.
It tackles the stability-plasticity dilemma, enabling robots to learn multiple tasks efficiently while retaining prior knowledge.&nbsp;
The aim of this project is to develop cyclic peptide inhibitors targeting a protein–protein interaction that is strongly implicated in the development and progression of tumours.
In this project, we aim to advance the development of these inhibitors towards clinical application.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/funding:
There are many ways to fund your PhD or research degree.
Learn about the different routes to secure funding.
You will be charged tuition fees for studying your PhD.
Depending on the type of project you want to apply for, there are different routes to fund your research degree.
We offer:
Some projects do not have funding secured until after the project has been advertised and a candidate recruited.
It’s important to know where your funding will come from before applying for a project.
For projects advertised as 'fully funded' or 'competition funded', your university fees will be paid and you will not need to apply for additional funding.
Competition funded projects will go ahead if the funding is awarded by the funding body.
You can talk with the lead supervisor to find out more.
See our current research degree projects
A funded project will cover your study fees.
Some projects come with an additional sum of money to cover things like accommodation, travel and maintenance expenses.
This is tax free.
Some project funding will only cover your university fees.
You will need to cover your living expenses yourself.
If you need help to cover your living costs, UK students can apply for a doctoral loan through Student Finance England.
International students can check if they are eligible to receive a scholarship or bursary .
Some advertised projects do not have funding secured yet.
The lead supervisor will usually source funding once they have found a suitable PhD candidate.
Contact the lead supervisor to find out about the specific funding options if there’s a project you’re interested in.
Doctoral training programmes are sponsored by one of the UKRI research councils and partners across government, industry, the NHS and charities.
These types of programmes include:
Check the details in the advertised project or specific doctoral training programme for how to apply.
You should tell your supervisor if you plan to self-fund your research project.
You’ll need to say how you intend to pay your fees when you apply.
You could consider:
You can apply for a government loan to cover your fees.
Doctoral loans are not means tested and you can decide how much you want to borrow.
Find out about doctoral loans on GOV.UK
You may be able to win funding from 1 or more organisations to help fund your PhD or research degree.
Learn about charity funding on FindAPhD
You can speak to the supervisor you wish you work with or contact the faculty graduate school.
Graduate school contacts:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/apply:
Once you’ve found a PhD project or decided on your own proposal and spoken with a potential supervisor, you can apply using our online application system.
The online application form takes about 30 minutes to complete.
Typically when you apply, you’ll need:
Apply as early as possible if you need to secure a UK visa or if you are applying for funding or sponsorship.
Deadlines for research funding are usually at least 6 months in advance of the start date.
Some projects will have a different application procedure.
This is usually the case when the project is funded by a doctoral training partnership.
Email: fah-pgr-apply@southampton.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 7433
Email: fels-pgr-apply@southampton.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)23 8212 6521
Email: feps-pgr-apply@southampton.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 3782
Email: fmed-pgr-apply@southampton.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)23 8212 6501
Email: fss-pgr-apply@southampton.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)23 8212 6529
We’re open Monday to Friday 09:00 to 17:00 GMT

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/enquire:
Contacting a potential supervisor is usually the first step you’ll take after you decide on your PhD project or topic area.
If you know the subject area you want to work in but do not have a particular supervisor in mind, you can explore our PhD topic areas .
Contact the supervisor you want to work with by searching for their profile.
Each profile indicates if the person is currently accepting PhD applications.
Once you've decided on your research area and have considered your proposal, draw up a shortlist 2 to 3 supervisors that match your research interests.
Your PhD supervisor could be someone:
You can learn about their research by reading their publications, books, reports and work in the community.
You'll usually find this information on:
Some potential supervisors will list their current and previous PhD students, with links to their profiles.
Their experience may be useful in helping you to make your decision.
Your supervisor will be someone you regularly work and interact with.
It's important to feel you could build a relationship with them.
You both need to feel you make a good match.
Email is usually the best way to contact a potential supervisor.
You will find a supervisor’s contact email on their staff profile.
When sending your first email, it’s a good idea to:
Allow 2 to 3 weeks for an initial response.
If you haven't received a response in that time, you can contact the faculty graduate school office.
Please contact our faculty graduate schools by email if you need further guidance.
For more general advice on contacting a potential supervisor, visit FindaPhD .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/support:
At Southampton, we welcome you into a supportive community of researchers.
As part of our student community, you’ll have the opportunity to build relationships, attend specialist events and share your research.
We bring together learning opportunities including workshops, webinars and standalone learning modules for research degree students.
When you take part in workshops and courses you’ll:
Our workshops and courses will help you to plan and review your development.
You can book your place as soon as you join us.
We host subject specific opportunities and seminars in your research group to help your development.
Research group seminars are a great way to share work, receive feedback and practise your presentation skills in a friendly environment.
As one of our researchers, you’ll have different ways to meet fellow PhD students for social activities and support.
We offer informal weekly virtual coffee sessions and regular seminars on current issues.
We host an annual Festival of Doctoral Research.
The festival celebrates the past year of hard work through award ceremonies, a research showcase, Three Minute Thesis competition and other activities, bringing together our PhD community.
When you spend time on campus you’ll have access to a shared office or workspaces to help you build relationships with other PhD research students.
This shared space will give you a base to work and socialise at the university.
Humanities research students based at our Avenue campus have access to postgraduate research student study rooms.
Each room has multiple workstations and access to technical support.
We offer additional support and advice to help you whilst you study, for example:
Find out more about the types of support we can offer you
Our Doctoral College provides training, networking, events and community activities across subject areas.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/exchanges.page:
Boost your career opportunities by studying or working overseas as part of your university course.
Explore new educational, social and cultural experiences.
University of Southampton students can apply to study for up to a year at one of our partner institutions.
Overseas students can come to Southampton on an exchange, or as part of the Study Abroad in Southampton scheme.
Opportunities for Southampton students to study overseas
Opportunities for overseas students to study in Southampton

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Browse our full list of undergraduate courses in Clearing and, if you have your results, apply now.
With over 25,000 students, Southampton is home to a vibrant community.
You’ll be taught by expert academics and have access to some of the best teaching facilities in the UK.
Source: QS World University Rankings 2026
8th most-targeted university by UK top employers.
Source: High Fliers Research 2024
Use industry equipment and develop skills for your career.
Guaranteed accommodation for first-year students.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundation-years:
A Foundation year helps you get onto your chosen undergraduate degree if you don't meet our requirements for direct entry.
We offer subjects from engineering to zoology.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/fees/undergraduate.page:
The amount you'll pay for undergraduate study depends on where you're from and what course you choose.
You can find undergraduate course fees on the fees table and all our courses on our undergraduate course pages .
Undergraduate tuition fees for all home students will increase every year from 1 August 2025.
Undergraduate tuition fees for overseas students will increase every year for students starting their course from 1 August 2026.
You'll pay up to 75% of the fee shown if you study part time.
You'll pay 20% of the tuition fee for any full year in employment / placement / industry if this is part of your course.
Part year will be charged 100% of the tuition fee.
The foundation year fee is separate from your undergraduate degree fee.
You'll pay the fee for your foundation year, and then an annual fee for your undergraduate degree.
For students starting their undergraduate degree from 1 August 2026 this fee will increase each year.
You can check your fee status if you don’t know whether you're a home or overseas student.
Students who defer their place will pay the tuition fees for the academic year they start their studies.
This may be different to the fee in your original offer letter.
The fees will increase each year.
If needed, you can access full fee information from previous years .These tables reflect the tuition fee charged on the date you started your course; they may not reflect the tuition fee you are charged for future years of study.
Learn how your fees relate to our income and expenditure from August 2018 to July 2019 .
Find out about the government loans & financial support available to undergraduate students studying at Southampton.
The University offers a bursary to help certain students with the cost of their studies.
There are a range of scholarships and awards available to undergraduate students at Southampton.
We can help with your questions about fees and funding.
You can contact the Student Hub if you have any questions about fees or funding.
You can contact the Students' Union Advice Centre for free and confidential support.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/customise-your-degree.page:
Most of our degrees are made up of 8 modules each year.
There’s usually a combination of compulsory and optional modules.
Many of our degrees allow you to study from another subject as part of your optional modules.
You can choose to take just 1 module in another subject.
You can also tailor your degree by:
You can swap 1 of your optional modules for a module outside your main area of study.
If you take an interdisciplinary module, it will be shown on your degree transcript and count towards your final grade.
The interdisciplinary modules available are:
You could also choose an optional language module .
It’s not possible to take interdisciplinary modules as part of every degree.
Find out if your course can include interdisciplinary modules in the course listings .
Taking an interdisciplinary module will give you a greater breadth of knowledge and understanding of the world.
You’ll learn alongside students with different perspectives to your own and develop transferable skills for your future.
You’ll be able to select interdisciplinary modules when you make your other module choices for the year, if your course is eligible.
Places on these modules are limited.
You can choose to take a minor subject alongside your main area of study.
To take a minor, you’ll select all your optional modules in each year of study from a different subject.
Your minor subject will appear on your degree certificate.
For example, ‘BA (Hons) History with a Minor in Sociology’.
You do not need to have any experience in your minor subject in order to study it.
It’s not possible to take a minor with every degree.
Minors begin in the first semester of your second year.
The language minor subjects available are:
You can study your chosen language at the appropriate stage for your ability.
The non-language minor subjects available are:
You do not need to tell us you want to study a minor when you apply for your main degree.
We’ll tell you about the minors available to you once you’ve started your studies.
You can choose not to continue with your minor subject if you change your mind.
Your degree certificate will only include the name of your minor subject if you take the final minor module in your last semester.
Email curriculum@soton.ac.uk to find out more.
Your personal academic tutor will also be able to give you advice.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/courses/funding/undergraduate.page:
There are many ways to help fund your undergraduate studies at Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
Learn how to apply for undergraduate study at the University of Southampton.
You’ll find everything you need to know right here, including:
Use our course finder to help you choose an undergraduate degree.
You can also explore the subjects you can study at the University of Southampton using our subject finder .
Visit the individual course pages to find the specific grades and entry requirements for each course.
If you're not from the UK, you can also find help with your qualification on our country information page.
Find out more about general information on entry requirements , including:
The University uses two categories for fees: the lower ‘UK (home)’ fee and the higher ‘International (overseas)’ fee.
The amount you'll have to pay depends on several criteria.
The 'UK (home)' fee applies to certain categories of student.
The fee level you'll have to pay depends on whether you meet certain criteria.
You can visit the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website for:
The University's Admissions Team will decide your fee status based on relevant fees regulations.
Apart from the information given in your application, we may ask you for additional details about you and your family to help us assess your fee status.
If needed, we'll ask you to complete a Fee Status Questionnaire.
If you have any questions about fee classification, please contact our team:
Visit tuition fees to check what you need to pay for your course.
Visit student funding to find out about help to finance your studies, including scholarship opportunities.
Open days are where you’ll find out more about our courses and explore the University.
You’ll tour our campuses, new sports facilities, the library and a range of accommodation options.
Current students and lecturers will be on hand to answer your questions.
You'll find out what it's like to study here and the support we offer.
Find out about Open days .
Any student applying for the first year of a full-time undergraduate course must apply through UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service).
Your school or college will usually support you with your UCAS application.
However, if your school or college isn't registered with UCAS or you are out of education, you will need to apply to UCAS directly via the UCAS website .
You can apply if you have not yet completed your qualifications or met our English language requirements.
We'd still be able to consider your application.
Discover how to apply through UCAS , including:
We'll email you if there's a decision on your application.
You can also check on the UCAS website and view any updates and offers.
Congratulations if you have been made an offer from Southampton.
If you receive an offer to study, we'll send you an invitation to an offer holder Visit Day and Virtual Visit Event.
This will depend on your course and the time of year you apply.
Offer Holder Visit Days generally take place from January to April.
Find out more information to help you understand your offer .
Get help with replying to your offer , including:
You can get help with studying costs in many ways.
Your options will depend on the type of student you are, what course you’re studying, and where you’re from.
Find out more about funding your studies .
Discover how to apply for scholarships to learn more about funding opportunities for undergraduate studies.
Students who are not British or Irish citizens may need to apply for a visa.
You can apply for a visa when you receive an unconditional offer.
Find out more about visas and immigration .
When you receive an offer from us, we’ll send you details of how to apply for a room in university accommodation and the application deadlines.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding:
Find out about tuition fees for undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses, and any financial support available to you.
UK and international students pay different fees, set out by the UK government.
Find out which you'll pay.
Find out how and when to pay your tuition fees.
Your funding options may depend on the type of fees you'll pay, your study level and course and your personal circumstances.
We have a range of options to suit your needs and additional information to help you understand and manage your finances while studying.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/short-courses:
Gain a career advantage with the latest sector thinking, or study for your own enjoyment with a short course.
We offer professional development modules, free online learning or lunchtime, evening and weekend classes.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/lifelonglearning/index.page:
Welcome to Lifelong Learning
We deliver the University’s community learning programme, which offers a range of opportunities for adult learners to enhance their skills and broaden their knowledge in a range of subject areas.
Whether you are looking to study for personal enjoyment, develop your career or wish to take the next step towards higher education, Lifelong Learning at the University of Southampton provides a varied programme of evening courses and events for the wider community.
Our Lifelong Learning motto is Meet, Learn, Enjoy.
We aim to offer a learning experience that is sociable and enjoyable, so that you can engage with new ideas, skills and viewpoints, drawing on our latest research and teaching expertise.
We offer courses in a wide variety of subjects, which reflect the expertise and academic excellence of the University.
Subjects include Creative Writing, English Literature, Film, History, Philosophy, Reflective Art, Modern Languages and many more.
Bookings for our 2025/26 courses are now open and classes start in October 2025.
To find out more and to book, visit our Online Store .
Join our Mailing List for information on our upcoming courses and events.
For further information about our courses, including prices, please see our information page .
We are pleased to invite you to our Autumn Lifelong Learning Open Evening on Wednesday 17 September from 5:30pm to 8pm at the Avenue Campus.
To find out more and to book your free ticket, please visit our Eventbrite page .
Click here for information about our courses and how to book

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/clearing:
Browse our undergraduate courses in Clearing now.
UCAS will contact you with a final decision about your results, and your application status will be updated in UCAS Hub .
We'll also email you to confirm this decision, and explain what you need to do next.
Our Clearing hotline has now closed, but if you have any queries about Clearing, you can contact our admissions team by:
Phone lines are open Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm, UK time.
If you're an offer holder and you need to request a change or update to your application, you can complete our short form .
Follow us on TikTok and Instagram to learn more about student life at Southampton.
You can also chat to our students in The Student Room forums.
One of the 10 most-targeted universities by the UK's top employers.
Source: High Fliers Graduate Market Report 2024
Source: Higher Education Statistics Agency Graduate Outcomes latest data
Source: Student Crowd UK universities reviews 2025
Learn more about student life, accommodation and living costs at Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/schools-colleges/residentials-summer-schools.page:
We host a number of residential courses and summer schools throughout the year for a range of different subject areas.
Our Widening Participation Medicine Taster Course is for students in Year 12 who want to study Medicine at university and intend to apply through a widening access programme.
This 4 day, 3 night summer residential is a chance to experience the academic and social side of student life at Southampton.
With a choice of 12 degree programmes to choose from.
The Learn with US Summer School is a three-day, two-night residential where you will immerse yourself in university life and experience what it's like to study at a Russell Group University.
Southampton Summer School is a 3-week programme, giving you the opportunity to learn something new or get fresh perspectives on your current studies.
If you love maths, technology or science, this course will enable you to apply your skills to computer science and electronic engineering.
Our Biomedical Engineering (Electronics) Taster Course lets you experience the cutting edge interface of electronics and healthcare technologies.
EDT is a UK wide educational charity.
This year the University of Southampton is running an Ocean and Earth Science Insight into University.
LifeLab would like to invite pupils who are interested in finding out more about becoming a doctor to attend our Summer School and two days at the University Hospital Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/prospectus:
Explore the courses and programmes we offer with our prospectuses.
Prospectuses are available for both undergraduate and postgraduate study.
Discover courses and student life at our international campuses.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
Apply for accommodation by 5pm, Sunday 31 August.
T&Cs apply.
Find your new home in our university student accommodation.
We have options to live close to campuses or in the city centre, and affordable rooms to suit your budget and lifestyle.
We also offer some postgraduate options.
Every University of Southampton-owned hall of residence has 24/7 reception and security
Free access to the Southampton Unilink bus network (University of Southampton-owned halls of residence in Southampton only)
Halls located close to campuses and the city centre.
Single rooms guaranteed for first-year, international, and other eligible students (terms and conditions apply).
These are the alternative accommodation options not included in the standard undergraduate options.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls:
We offer lots of different types of room in our 7 halls of residence.
You can apply for 5 to 7 room choices.
Each hall is divided into flats, with single-occupancy bedrooms sharing a communal kitchen area.
Our halls also have areas for socialising and laundry, and some have gyms and leisure facilities too.
All accommodation prices shown are per week.
Spread across Romero and Gateley halls, Archers Road offers friendly city centre student living close to the bars and restaurants in Bedford Place.
Modern en-suite, studio and couples accommodation near to Highfield Campus.
The site is located by a gym, convenience store and doctor's surgery and a short walk from Swaythling train station.
Good value en-suite rooms close to Winchester School of Art and the historic city centre.
Close to Highfield and Boldrewood Campuses, Glen Eyre is our biggest student community with lots of green space and great facilities.
Traditional accommodation close to Highfield and Avenue campuses and right next to the peaceful green space of Southampton Common.
Stylish modern accommodation in Southampton city centre with gym membership included.
Easy access campuses via your Unilink bus pass.
Our private halls partner Orion Point offers prime city centre en-suite accommodation, a short walk from numerous shops, restaurants and bars.
A 15 to 20-minute bus ride to University of Southampton campuses.
A social student village close to the shops, cafes, bars and restaurants of Portswood and near to Highfield Campus.
Features recently refurbished Enhanced plus rooms, with a clean, eco-friendly design and large, modern kitchens.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/your-options:
All our halls promote diversity and equality.
We want you to feel at home in an inclusive living environment and have an enriching experience.
You can choose your room type and hall and tell us about additional needs or preferences on your accommodation application.
These options may not be available at all halls, so if you’d like more information, please contact The Student Hub .
We can provide accommodation adaptations for students with extra needs due to a disability or long-term health condition.
You can contact the University’s Student Disability and Inclusion team if you’d like to discuss your options before applying.
Alcohol-free flats are for students who agree not to store or drink alcohol within their rooms or shared areas.
You’ll also agree that anyone who visits you will stick to the same rules.
You will not be placed in an Alcohol-free flat if you have not asked for it.
Our Self-catered rooms can be booked with a Catered package, which provides a weekly pre-paid amount of credit that you can spend in any Campus Kitchen outlet throughout your contract.
All our outlets provide a range of gluten free, vegetarian, vegan and halal options .
Find out more on the University catering webpage .
LGBTQ+ flats are for people who identify as part of the LGBTQ+ community, who want to live with others from that community.
The University of Southampton is a diverse organisation and expects all students and staff to be tolerant and respectful of each other.
However, we recognise that some LGBTQ+ students may feel more comfortable living with other LGBTQ+ students, and so you can request this on your application.
We will prioritise your preference for LGBTQ+ accommodation above your selected hall and room type preferences, if required.
Please note that we cannot offer LGBTQ+ accommodation in addition to Quieter lifestyle or Alcohol-free, and we cannot offer single gender LGBTQ+ accommodation.
We offer Quieter lifestyle rooms in most of our halls, where students who want a quieter living arrangement can live with others who also want this.
Most of our postgraduate rooms are Quieter lifestyle by default, but a lot of undergraduates choose this option too.
Student accommodation is often lively and we are proud of our vibrant student communities across the city, but this option means those who value peace and quiet in their home environment can choose to partake in the social scene as much or as little as they like.
We also offer a Quieter lifestyle and Alcohol-free combined option in some of our halls.
We offer one bed flats for couples at City Gateway, Mayflower and Glen Eyre halls sites.
Couples accommodation is not covered by the accommodation guarantee as we have a limited stock of this type of accommodation.
Most of our accommodation is mixed gender, but we offer female only flat living arrangements which can be requested when you apply.
In these flats no overnight guests of a different gender to the flat residents are permitted.
Please note that members of staff attending flats for cleaning, maintenance or other purposes may be a different gender to the flat residents.
Show flats are groups of single rooms with a shared kitchen area that prospective students can visit during university open days and visit days.
If you live in a show flat, you will receive a 5% discount on your halls fees for allowing people to view your room and communal spaces.
The University will ensure that a guide is always present during every tour.
No unaccompanied visitors will be in your flat and a cleaning team will visit your communal areas before open days.
Show flats set a model example of the living experience at our halls.
You must agree to the following conditions during your stay:
You will also have the option to sign up to be a student ambassador.
This means you will be able to show your room to perspective students.
Student ambassadors get paid an hourly rate and you would need to sign up with Uniworkforce .
The following options are not offered by our Private partner halls or within standard shared bathroom accommodation at Highfield Hall:
Now that you know what to think about when you're choosing student accommodation compare our halls of residence to see which one suits you best.
Compare our student halls

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/apply:
Find out how and when to apply for student accommodation at Southampton.
Applications for 2025/26 are open.
Our standard accommodation guarantee deadline for 2025/26 was extended to 1 August and has now passed.
Clearing students should check their course offer for details of any accommodation guarantee that may apply.
Applications for single-occupancy rooms in our accommodation must be made through our online portal.
To register, you’ll need your:
Apply for accommodation
You do not need to make a payment when you apply.
Find out more about how and when you'll pay for your accommodation .
If you need any assistance applying, have a look at our application guide .
If you have any further questions, you can email us at accommodation@soton.ac.uk .
Students on part-time courses are not eligible for University accommodation.
Our accommodation is only available to full-time students, in line with University policy.
You will also be able to request things such as:
Find out about your accommodation options
You can visit our accommodation at Open Days throughout the year to help you make your choices.
You’ll get an email confirming your application once you’ve submitted it.
Please check your junk or spam folder if you don’t receive it, and remember to make us a “trusted sender” in your email client.
If you have made Southampton your firm or only choice (you have a conditional firm or unconditional firm course offer), you will be sent an offer of accommodation between 14 August and 5 September.
You must meet the conditions of your course offer.
If you have made Southampton your insurance choice you will be sent an accommodation offer between 14 August and 5 September if you don't meet the conditions of your firm choice university.
Postgraduate accommodation applicants will receive accommodation offers from June 2025 onwards.
If you don't come to Southampton, your application will be cancelled and you don't need to do anything.
If you accept an accommodation offer and then decide to withdraw or defer your course start, please email accommodation@soton.ac.uk so we can cancel your room and offer it to another student.
If you want to stay in halls for another year, applications open for a short period each year for current students to apply.
You can submit a returner application via the accommodation portal.
The application process is the same as for first-year students, with one important exception – you can apply with other students in a group.
When applying, you can enter your "Group reference/name" in the notes section before submitting the application.
This Group reference/name must be agreed between your group, so try to make it unique so that there is no confusion with other groups.
We must receive an application from everyone in the group individually and we encourage you to submit the same site/room type/catering/contract preferences.
Returner applications for 2026/27 will open in February/March 2026.
The University has a limited quantity of family houses for students with children.
If you're coming to Southampton with your partner and/or children, you must use our online form to request family accommodation.
Any offer made will be subject to us having a property available that is suitable for your family size.
Request family accommodation

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/guarantee:
We guarantee an offer of accommodation in a single-occupancy room to all full-time students (part-time courses are not eligible) who fulfil all of the following criteria:
Our guarantee is extended to the following groups:
To be covered by the Accommodation Guarantee, you must submit your accommodation application by the deadline date, which has now passed for 2025/26 entry.
If you are interested in accommodation from September 2026 onwards, applications for new students will open in April 2026.
The Guarantee extends only to an offer of a room in halls.
There is no guarantee that a particular type or price of room will be available.
We reserve the right to extend the Guarantee to other cohorts of students as deemed appropriate, and the terms of this Guarantee may change from year to year.
The accommodation offer must be accepted by the deadline stated on the accommodation portal.
The Guarantee does not extend to any further offer that may be made at our discretion.
We guarantee a place in accommodation for undergraduate students applying for a course in Clearing .
If you apply for a course in Clearing, you need to apply for accommodation by 5pm, UK time on Tuesday 26 August 2025.
You'll need your Southampton ID number to complete your accommodation application – you'll receive this in an email after you've confirmed the University of Southampton as your Clearing choice in UCAS Hub , and we've verified your application.
After we've made you an accommodation offer, you'll have 2 days to accept it before the offer expires.
Terms and conditions apply.
If you have any queries about our accommodation guarantee for Clearing students, call our accommodation hotline .
A limited number of rooms are made available for Returning students each year.
No Returning student is guaranteed accommodation.
Students with medical conditions or disabilities which present difficulties in finding suitable alternative accommodation will be prioritised, as will students requiring accommodation for part of the year due to placements or Study Abroad.
Returning students with outstanding accommodation debt or unsatisfactory misconduct record (including certain criminal convictions) may not be offered a place in halls.
We reserve the right to withdraw an offer of a place in halls at any time.
Applications are welcomed from students applying after the guarantee deadline date, but they are encouraged to consider other options in the event that we are unable to make an offer.
Where possible, an accommodation offer shall be made when the student turns 16 years old.
There is no guarantee of a specific room type or hall being available on that date.
Such students may find alternative accommodation such as Homestay more suitable due to the adult nature of halls accommodation.
We have a limited amount of accommodation suitable for couples and families.
Though we do not guarantee to accommodate a student’s family, we welcome applications for these accommodation options.
Students will be offered one of their preferences of accommodation (combination of hall/room type/contract length) wherever possible, however we do not guarantee that any preference will be available at the time of the offer.
Any offer made will be the closest match to the application preferences that can be made on that date.
In addition to hall/room type/contract length options, students may select Quieter Lifestyle, Alcohol Free, Single Gender or LGBTQ+ accommodation.
Students selecting one of these options will be placed in a flat with others who have chosen that option.
These additional options are not available at every hall, due to constraints around the configuration of buildings and for reasons of demand.
Contract lengths available include
For undergraduates:
For postgraduates:
Limited Semester 1 and Semester 2 contracts are available for students on recognised courses of study requiring them to be in Southampton for a single semester only.
We aim to create flats where the residents are at similar levels of study and of similar ages, but diverse in course of study, nationality, and gender.
As far as possible, undergraduates will be allocated in different flats to postgraduates, and new students in different flats to returning students.
Flatmates will be of similar ages.
Unless the flat is Single Gender, the balance of male/female students within a flat is aimed to be no more than 60% one way or the other.
Students will live with people on different courses to their own as far as possible, and with a diverse range of nationalities where this can be achieved.
Students with medical needs or disabilities who are supported by our Student Disability and Inclusion team may be prioritised for specific rooms with required adaptations.
Rooms are not offered on a first come, first served basis due to the complexities of the allocation process as outlined above.
We will prioritise allocating a student into a flat with residents they are likely to enjoy living with above ensuring a student’s first preference is met.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/fees-contracts:
Here you can find our student accommodation fees for the 2025/26 academic year.
For previous year's fees, visit the accommodation portal .
You’ll sign a contract with us when you accept a room in our halls of residence.
We offer three different contract lengths:  38 week, 41 week or 51 weeks.
Some contract lengths are only available for certain rooms or halls.
Your contract options will be shown to you when you apply for accommodation.
Our contract dates for 2025-26 are:
Most undergraduates need a 38 or 41 week contract, and most postgraduates need a 51 week contract.
You cannot change to a shorter contract after you accept your accommodation offer.
You can book summer accommodation with us if you need to stay longer.
If you live in a self-catered room, you'll be responsible for preparing all your own meals.
If you live in a part-catered room, breakfast and a main meal will be provided on weekdays during term time.
Brunch is also provided on Saturdays, and lunch is provided on Sundays.
Part-catering can cater for specific dietary preferences and daily provide a range of gluten free, vegetarian, vegan and halal options .
Accommodation contracts for Orion Point are with Unite Students.
You will need to pay £350 as an advanced rent for Unite rooms.
51 week contract from 13 September 2025 to 5 September 2026.
41 week contract from 13 September 2025 to 27 June 2025.
You’ll pay for your accommodation in instalments.
These are charged at the start of each term.
The 2025/26 payment dates will be;
*51 week contracts only
If you received an accepted offer of accommodation before 22 August, you will see the original 10 April 2026 payment date on your PDF document within your portal.
Your accommodation fees include:
Your accommodation fees include contents insurance.
You can find out what’s included on our insurance provider’s website.
You’ll need to arrange your own insurance for any items not covered by this comprehensive policy.
You can find out what furniture your room will have, and what kitchen or kitchenette facilities you’ll share on your hall page .
We also have an information page about what items to bring to University .
Student loans can include a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan to help you pay for university accommodation and your living costs.
You can find out more about eligibility and how to apply for a maintenance loan on our student loans page.
You can read our:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/cities:
Depending on your course, you could study in either Southampton or Winchester.
Both are student-friendly cities with plenty of green spaces, history and culture.
Our cities are some of the safest in the UK and are well-connected to the rest of Europe.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/cities/southampton:
Famous as a maritime city, Southampton sits right on the south coast and has some of the best weather in the UK.
Rich in history, but full of lively and modern art, culture, restaurants and nightlife, it’s a safe, friendly and walkable place.
There are nearly 160 languages spoken in Southampton.
Source: Southampton Data Observatory
Southampton has Purple Flag status and is recognised for its safe and vibrant nightlife.
Source: Association of Town & City Management (ATCM)
Southampton is home to more than 37,500 students.
Southampton has 20 parks.
Southampton Airport is just a 12-minute bus ride from Highfield Campus.
Arrive in London in just 1 hour and 20 minutes on fast, direct trains from Southampton Central station.
In this video, economics and actuarial student Eniola and student nurse Nyasha take you on a whistle stop tour of Southampton.
(1 minute)
Whether you love Premier League football, sailing, eating out or the arts, you'll find a lot to keep you busy here.
Find out more about what you can do and what's on in Southampton.
There's a really good live music scene in Southampton, as well as a host of nightlife and cinemas.
Southampton celebrates its diversity and culture with festivals throughout the year.
Southampton is culturally rich, with a large theatre, several art galleries and a world-class concert hall.
Did you know the Titanic sailed from Southampton?
Or that the Spitfire was made here?
There’s lots of history to uncover in our city.
Southampton is truly blessed with its outdoor spaces.
The city has over 20 parks and a huge common at its centre.
We are only a short journey from the New Forest National Park and the Isle of Wight.
With Premier League football, world-class cricket, incredible sailing and watersports, and one of the UK's biggest activity centres, you'll be able to follow your sporting passion in Southampton.
Southampton is a regional centre for shopping.
It has a great mix of large, well-known brands and lots of smaller, independent stores.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/cities/winchester:
Our ancient city offers a thriving arts and culture scene that rivals much bigger university towns.
With beautiful architecture, riverside walks, and lots of pubs, cafés and restaurants, you'll enjoy a great social life while living in Winchester.
The ancient capital city of England is full of history to explore and green spaces to enjoy.
Find out more about where to eat, what to see and what to do in Winchester.
You’ll find a mixture of chain and independent cafes and restaurants serving food from around the world.
There’s a lively pub culture, and some Asian food markets too.
The streets are filled with performances and events all year around.
In summer, The Winchester Hat Fair celebrates street theatre, dance and circus.
Winchester has long been the cultural heart of southern England.
If music, art, poetry and literature are your thing, you’ll be spoilt for choice with a variety of galleries, exhibitions, gatherings and events held throughout the year.
Winchester was once the ancient capital city of England, and is filled with architecture from across the centuries.
Our Cathedral and The Great Hall are popular highlights.
Head to St Giles Hill for the best view of our beautiful city.
Winnall Moors Nature Reserve is close to our campus, and offers relaxing walks.
You'll find a swimming pool and gyms in Winchester and there are plenty of lovely outdoor spaces for running.
The city is about to get a brand new sports complex.
You’ll find big-name brands as well as smaller independent stores, including art shops.
Our Christmas Market attracts tourists from all over the world in December.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/sport:
Improvements in progress, updates coming soon
Our £45m of recent investments include a major redevelopment of our sports centre .
From watersports to martial arts, there's a choice of more than 90 Students' Union sports clubs .
From football to paddleboarding, keep active with our diverse activities and classes .
We offer a variety of Royal Yachting Association-accredited watersports courses and qualifications .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/sport/facilities:
The University is proud to offer a wide range of modern sporting facilities for our staff, students and wider community to use.
Our partnership with the Active Nation network also gives some members access to additional gyms and swimming pools.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/sportandwellbeing/watersports/index.page:
Improve your skills and confidence on one of our internationally recognised Royal Yachting Association and British Canoeing watersports courses.
Activities take place at the University Watersports Centre, Southampton Sailing Club or the National Oceanography Centre.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses:
We have 6 closely-connected campuses in the city of Southampton, 1 in the nearby city of Winchester, 1 in the Malaysian city of Iskandar Puteri, and 1 in Delhi, India.
Our campuses are where you'll have your lectures and classes.
Each campus is a community of related subject areas, with study spaces, libraries, cafes and restaurants.
Some also have gym and sports facilities.
No matter which campus your studies are based at, you can use the facilities at any campus.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/avenue:
Just a few minutes' walk from Avenue Campus, this is the largest green space in Southampton.
You’ll find lakes, cycling trails and plenty of space to relax with friends.
Avenue Campus is the home of archaeology at Southampton.
Our facilities are some of the best in the country and our purpose-built laboratory allows us to study and catalogue bones collected on field exercises.
Our digital humanities hub includes modern technology such as virtual reality, 3D scanning and printing, and a 360-degree fully immersive audio-visual centre.
In addition, the space includes several areas for individual and group work.
Open to all staff and students, these courts are generally available on a first-come, first-play basis.
Explore our buildings, classrooms and social spaces from the comfort of your own home.
This space is great for both studying and socialising.
You'll find plenty of desk space and tables for group work and projects.
You’ll find a selection of quiet rooms and study spaces around Avenue Campus that provide a place for you to concentrate on your work.
Located in the heart of campus, this cafe offers an extensive range of hot and cold food and drinks.
There are no arts and entertainment facilities on the Avenue Campus site.
Our main Highfield Campus , with its cinema and concert hall, is just a 5-minute walk away.
Located right next door, our student accommodation in Highfield Hall is only a 2-minute walk from Avenue Campus.
Avenue Campus is located in the north-east of the city, close to Southampton Common and The Avenue (A33).
Address: Highfield Road, Southampton, Hampshire SO17 1BF
Unilink buses stop directly outside the campus.
Our main campus at Highfield is 0.5 miles away.
It will take most people about 10 minutes to walk this distance, and the route is accessible to wheelchair users.
Parking is available for blue badge holders on all our campuses.
Other visitor parking is limited and you must arrange this in advance with your host.
We offer more information about parking on, or close to, campus .
Our ambition is to make our campuses and buildings easily accessible to everyone.
The AccessAble website provides more details on the accessibility of our buildings and facilities .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/boldrewood:
This 138-metre long facility is the largest university towing tank in the UK and one of the largest in Europe.
Our UKCRIC National Infrastructure Laboratory houses 5 engineering laboratories including a large structures testing laboratory and a geotechnical centrifuge.
Hot or cold food and drinks are available 5 days a week.
There's space to enjoy your own food, and the cafe has a terrace facing the adjoining gardens.
Boldrewood is our newest campus and contains many exciting study and research spaces.
Here you can see some highlights, but you can also explore all our engineering facilities.
Boldrewood’s modern, open-plan buildings feature plenty of individual work spaces and shared rooms for group work.
With a 3D printer, machining workshop, electronics workstation, and a hot-wire cutter, this lab space is perfect for designing and building airframes.
Our UKCRIC National Infrastructure Laboratory houses 5 engineering laboratories, including a large structures testing laboratory and a geotechnical centrifuge.
This research facility has machines capable of testing a wide range of materials across the loading scales, length scales, temperature scales, and strain rates.
This 138 metre-long facility is the largest university towing tank in the UK and one of the largest in Europe.
This is an exclusive modern learning suite for the MBA, based in Building 175 on Boldrewood Innovation Campus.
The MBA suite includes a classroom, a kitchen, a relaxation area, and a self-study space.
It's used for teaching, private and group study, and social activities.
There is space to enjoy your own food and the cafe has a terrace facing the adjoining gardens.
There are no arts and entertainment facilities on the Boldrewood Campus site.
Our main Highfield Campus , with its cinema and concert hall, is just a 5 minute walk away.
There are no sport and leisure facilities on the Boldrewood Campus site.
Our main Highfield Campus , with its sports centre, swimming pool, gym and bouldering wall is just a 5 minute walk away.
Just a few minutes' walk from Boldrewood Campus, this is the largest green space in Southampton.
A 10-minute walk from Boldrewood, Glen Eyre is our big student community with lots of green space.
Boldrewood Innovation Campus is located in the north-east of the city, close to Portswood, Bassett and Southampton Common.
Address: Burgess Road, Southampton, Hampshire SO16 7QF
For satnav: look for the campus entrance opposite house number 70, Burgess Road, Southampton SO16 7PP.
We offer more information about parking on, or close to campus .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/city-centre-campus:
Open to all our students the SJM Building has an extensive range of independent study areas, refurbished teaching and learning facilities, and support on site from our Student Hub and iSolutions.
One of the UK's leading contemporary art galleries.
The gallery presents exhibitions, events, learning and research projects by leading artists from across the world.
We have a floor of dedicated doctoral school spaces within the contemporary 1GS building.
1GS is located opposite the Sir James Matthew Building.
Mayflower gym has a range of gym and fitness equipment and classes in the fitness studio.
It is open to all those with a University gym membership.
Find out more about some of the study spaces and facilities available on our City Centre Campus.
These are open and available for all of our students to use.
Located in the Sir James Matthews Building, serving premium coffee and a menu of hot and cold food.
The cafe is open Monday to Friday from 8am to 7pm.
Located a five minute walk away from the other buildings in the City Centre Campus.
There is a range of cardio and resistance equipment, and classes in the fitness studio during the week.
Part of Southampton's Cultural Quarter, the building is also home to community film and media organisation City Eye.
It is located amongst a range of nearby theatre, live music, and visual arts venues.
There are lots of green spaces in central Southampton.
Our City Centre Campus is located directly next to East Park and West Park.
A 5-minute walk from Guildhall Square where the SJM and other City Centre Campus buildings are.
The Mayflower Gym is located at the base of the building.
Around a 10 to 15 minute walk from our City Centre Campus, and very close to Southampton Common and the student area, Bedford Place.
Archers Road halls offer en-suite accommodation with a friendly community feel.
Our private halls partner Orion Point offers prime city centre en-suite accommodation, a short walk across East Park to the City Centre Campus, and central restaurants and bars.
City Centre Campus is located in and around Guildhall Square, Above Bar, Southampton.
Address: Guildhall Square, Above Bar Street, Southampton, SO14 7DU
Unilink bus routes depart regularly from the centre of Southampton.
They travel to many locations across the city including halls of residence, other University campus locations, train stations, and the airport.
There is no University owned parking on our City Centre Campus, though there are council and privately managed car parks close by.
You can find information on the city centre car parks on the Council website .
If you hold a blue badge there are three disabled bays on Commercial Road, at the northwest corner of the Sir James Matthews Building.
Other spaces will be available at other city council locations if needed.
If you ride a motorbike or use car club, there are bays on Commercial Road.
Please note University parking permits will not be valid in these bays/car parks and the T&Cs, pricing and availability of these bays/car parks are not managed or controlled by the University.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/highfield:
The library is one of the largest university libraries in the south of England.
Open 24 hours a day, it's a great place to study on your own or with a group.
Like a secret garden, Valley Gardens is tucked away in a corner of Highfield Campus.
It's the perfect place to grab a few quiet moments to yourself in lush green surroundings.
The Students' Union offers everything you need to make the most of your time as a student at Southampton.
Whether you’re looking to work out in the gym or do a few laps of the pool, you’ll find everything you need to stay fit and healthy right here on campus.
One of the newest buildings on campus this building celebrates 100 years of Highfield Campus.
You might have some lectures here and you’ll find plenty of light, airy places to study.
Our many wind tunnels are used regularly by sports teams and the aerospace, motorsport and marine industries, as well as being a key research facility for students.
Explore our buildings, classrooms, and social spaces from the comfort of your own home.
Our campus is always changing.
Relax on our lawns in spring, and explore our festive markets in winter.
The heart of Highfield, the library is open 24 hours a day and is a great place to study on your own or with a group.
You can book time in these spaces for study groups or project work.
There are more than 180 rooms to choose from.
Our music students benefit from 2 live studio rooms and 2 control rooms.
There are also many rehearsal rooms, including a dedicated percussion room.
The Zepler Institute Cleanroom Complex is our state-of-the-art multidisciplinary centre for materials and device research in electronics, photonics, and nanotechnology.
Our many wind tunnels are used regularly by sports teams and the aerospace, motorsport, and marine industries, as well as being a key research facility for students.
Explore our refurbished chemistry labs, containing the same equipment used in modern chemical laboratories.
Offers snacks, coffee, and hot and cold food options including pizza and noodles.
Buy sandwiches, soups, salads, daily specials, and plenty more besides from this popular cafe chain.
Our cosy campus Costa has the full range of hot and cold drinks, sandwiches and cakes.
You don't have to go far from your studies to get refreshments.
Situated on the ground floor of Hartley Library, this is a great place to grab coffee, cake, and sandwiches.
The perfect place for grabbing a quick sandwich or a snack while you're waiting for the next bus.
Whether you’re looking to work out in the gym, or do a few laps of the pool, you’ll find everything you need to stay fit and healthy.
You’ll find a variety of courts, sports halls, and practice rooms in the Students’ Union building.
Put your strength and agility to the test on the Students’ Union bouldering wall.
Our renowned jazz, classical, folk and world music concert hall offers an impressive line-up of acclaimed performers.
See mainstream, independent and world films in the Students' Union very own cinema, run by students.
Just a few minutes' walk from Highfield Campus, this is the largest green space in Southampton.
This tranquil space is hidden in the heart of campus and is a great space for quiet study or relaxing.
A 10-minute walk from Highfield, Glen Eyre is our big student community with lots of green space.
A lively, social student village close to shops, cafes, bars, and a train station.
Just a 10-minute walk from Highfield.
Highfield Campus is located in the north-east of the city, close to Portswood, Bassett and Southampton Common.
Address: University Road, Southampton, Hampshire SO17 1BJ
Unilink bus routes depart regularly from Highfield Interchange, in the centre of campus.
They travel to many locations across the city including halls of residence, train stations and the airport.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/general-hospital:
Our specialist medicine and health sciences library is located within the hospital’s academic block and is a well-resourced, quiet learning space.
Practice your clinical skills in our virtual ward environments.
Our clinical skills rooms replicate the wards of a modern hospital.
This campus is home to our dedicated research centre for cancer immunology, the first of its kind in the UK.
LifeLab is a unique, state of the art, teaching laboratory dedicated to helping young people understand how to live healthier lives.
We run regular workshops for school children and teachers.
Explore the Hospital Campus from the comfort of your own home
Equipped with computer stations, microwaves and pool tables, the common room is a space to work, eat and relax with friends.
Modern anatomy teaching laboratories and a wide range of resources.
You’ll find a branch of this popular cafe serving drinks, sandwiches and snacks in the hospital’s main entrance.
Grab a quick drink and snack from this popular coffee chain.
This restaurant features a deli bar, a bakery and a wide range of hot and cold food.
Located in the academic block, this canteen is exclusively for students and is a great place to relax with a drink or bite to eat.
There are no sports facilities on the Hospital Campus site.
As a University of Southampton student you can use all the sports facilities on our other campuses and in our halls of residence.
There are no entertainment facilities on the Hospital Campus site.
Highfield Campus has a cinema and concert hall and is only a 20-minute bus ride away.
This small, but beautiful, city park is just a 10-minute walk from the hospital.
The largest green space in the city.
You'll find woodland, lakes, cycling trails, and plenty of space to relax with friends.
A mountain biking paradise near the hospital.
Southampton Bike Park has lots of trails to put your cycling skills to the test.
Traditional accommodation close to Highfield and Avenue campuses, as well as the peaceful green space of Southampton Common.
Spread across Romero and Gateley halls, Archers Road offers friendly accommodation close to Southampton city centre.
Southampton General Hospital is located in the west of the city, close to Shirley and Lordshill.
Address: Tremona Road, Southampton, Hampshire SO16 6YD
Unilink buses stop directly outside the hospital.
Our main campus at Highfield is 2 miles away.
It will take most people about 45 minutes to walk this distance.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/waterfront:
This multi-use research aquarium allows us to study a wide range of fresh and seawater marine specimens.
You can study environmental effects on coral reefs in a controlled environment at this unique research facility.
Waterfront Campus is home to Europe's largest marine science library with a wide variety of books and resources to help you study.
Equipped for a range of coastal and shelf research, this 20 metre catamaran is often used by staff and students for fieldwork.
Explore our buildings, classrooms and social spaces.
Waterfront Campus is home to Europe's largest marine science library with a wealth of books and resources to help you study.
This recently refurbished cafe serves hot and cold foods and snacks, whilst offering impressive sea views.
Mayflower halls of residence are about 1.5 miles from Waterfront Campus.
If you're living in University halls, your free Unilink bus pass will let you travel between halls and campuses.
Waterfront Campus is located on the dockside in the south of the city, close to Ocean Village.
Address: European Way, Southampton, Hampshire SO14 3ZH
Our main campus at Highfield is 3.5 miles away.
It will take most people about 75 minutes to walk this distance.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/winchester:
The Winchester School of Art gallery hosts student shows and national touring exhibitions.
There’s a dedicated SUSU social space on campus with regular events.
A specialist arts library to support your studies.
It is also home to the Knitting Reference Library and the Artists’ Books Collection.
A rich resource of books, journals and films to support your arts studies.
The library is also home to the Knitting Reference Library.
As a fine art or graphic art student you’ll have your own dedicated work space.
There are also common learning spaces around the campus.
A rich resource of equipment hire and advice for students, with everything from cameras to projectors, lighting and screens.
This campus has a rich variety of facilities, including a photography studio, a video studio and sculpture, art and fashion workshops.
A great place to catch-up with friends and enjoy a coffee, sandwich, or hot lunch.
The University doesn't have any of its own sports facilities on the Winchester Campus.
There are plenty of sports facilities in the city itself and, as a Southampton student, you can use all our other sports facilities .
Just a few minutes’ walk from the campus is this spectacular nature reserve, with wildflower-rich meadow, pasture and woodland.
This beautiful chalk stream runs alongside Winchester Campus and on through the city of Winchester.
Erasmus Park offers good value en-suite rooms, just a 15 minute walk from Winchester Campus and 20 minutes from the historic city centre.
Winchester Campus is located in the centre of Winchester, beside the River Itchen and Winnall Moors Nature Reserve.
Address: Park Avenue, Winchester, Hampshire SO23 8DL
Local buses stop on North Walls (B3330), close to the front of campus.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/community:
University life is about more than studying; it's about people, new experiences and expanding your social life.
Here are just a few of the ways you can make friends, follow your passions and make a difference during your time here.
Our Students' Union (SUSU) sits at the heart of campus life.
It's run by students, for students.
The main SUSU building sits on Highfield Campus , but the union has social spaces, services and events across our campuses.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/support-money:
There are lots of practical things to consider when you start university.
Find out how The Student Hub can help you with issues like mental health, disability needs, living costs and safety.
You can speak with someone 24/7, 365 days a year.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/support-money/student-living-costs:
Working out your finances is a big part of preparing for university.
You can use this page to get an idea of approximate living costs and what you may need to budget for.
The cost of living in Southampton is relatively low compared to other Russell Group university cities across the UK.
Average costs for private accommodation, transport, and essential supermarket items such as milk, bread and rice are cheaper in Southampton than in many other university cities.
Numbeo: Cost of living in Southampton
Numbeo: Cost of living in Winchester
Your biggest weekly cost will be your accommodation.
University of Southampton managed Halls of Residence include utilities and a Unilink bus pass in their cost.
If you live in private accommodation , these costs may be extra.
Save the Student - Rent calculator can help you work out how much you can afford in rent.
*these costs are included in your rent if you live in University of Southampton-managed Halls of Residence in Southampton.
Save the student provides free, impartial advice on how to make your money go further.
Save the Student - Student living costs in the UK (2025)
Our Student Hub is your safe space to talk about fees, financial support or wellbeing.
They’re available 24/7 to help support you with whatever you need, whenever you need it.
Through the Student Hub you can develop your money management skills, apply for financial help, or chat to financial advisers.
The Student Support Fund is a limited pot of money, designated to help students who find themselves in unexpected financial hardship.
We also have funds for Health and Wellbeing and Technology , that students can access.
The Students’ Union runs a free Advice Centre to provide you with independent guidance and support on a range of issues, including finance.
You'll also have access to a dedicated cost of living knowledge hub, with information about:
Every year we review our support initiatives to make sure they’re supporting students in the best way possible.
You'll need to show you can afford to live and study in the UK when you apply for your visa.
We can help you with visa and immigration issues .
International students also have access to our International Student Support Fund.
As well as subsidised food outlets at all our locations, we offer free and reduced food, and open access microwave stations across our campuses.
We have many resources designed to support you in your studies, including free laptop loans , warm study spaces and a Technology Grant
There are free and fun activities taking place on campus every week.
No fee, no commitment, and no kit required.
When you join us, you’ll have access to the MySouthampton app where you can see what’s on.
We also offer grants of up to £500 for treatment costs not normally covered by the NHS, for eligible students.
If you live in University-owned halls of residence in Southampton, your Unilink bus travel around Southampton is included in the price of your accommodation fees.
Our commuter fund helps fund travel costs for eligible students living at home.
And if you’re on Highfield campus late, studying or on a night out at SUSU, the Safety Bus will drop you home for free.
Here are some apps that can help you keep track of your spending.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/support-money/academic-wellbeing:
Starting university is a time of great change and might bring you challenges.
Our student support and wellbeing services are there to help you, whatever your need.
Explore the many types of advice and support that we offer.
If you can’t find what you’re looking for contact the Student Hub team, studenthub@soton.ac.uk
Our Student Life teams are available day and night, every day, to support your wellbeing in our halls of residence.
Explore the 24/7 support we offer
From mindfulness classes, to professional counselling and drop-in sessions we’ll help you manage your mental health to get the most from university life.
Find out more about our mental health and wellbeing support
When you join us you’ll be given a personal academic tutor.
They will give you one-to-one support throughout your time at university, to help you achieve your academic goals.
Find out how the personal tutor system works
This resource hub and our dedicated subject librarians are there to help you improve your study and research skills.
Visit the Academic Skills Hub
Our Doctoral College offers specialist support and development opportunities to all our PhD researchers.
Through the college you’ll be able to connect with a wide range of fellow researchers across the University.
Explore our Doctoral College
We offer free classes in English for academic purposes to all international students.
These include academic writing, critical thinking, presentation and seminar skills.
Learn more about our free English language classes
Whether you’re a parent, a carer, a mature student, a student without any family support, or a care leaver we offer specialist support, advice and networking opportunities.
Find out about the extra support we offer
We’ll meet you at the airport and help you settle into halls.
Our Welcome Week will let you meet other students and we’ll help you with the practicalities like finding health services.
Learn more about our international support
If you're a student with a disability and you need extra support our Student Disability and Inclusion team can help you.
Find out about the disability support we offer
Our student financial support team can help you with money issues throughout your time at university.
The team can give you advice on getting funding, on budgeting and can help you sort out money worries.
Discover the money advice available

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/governance/regulations-policies/policies/inclusion-respectful-behaviour:
Members of the University can find detailed guidance and support for this policy on our Inclusion and Respectful Behaviour SharePoint site .
From 1 August 2024, the policy replaced the Dignity at Work and Study, Equal Opportunities, Religion and Belief, and Gender Identity policies.
For copies of previous policies, email the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion team: diversity@soton.ac.uk
You can also explore our new, comprehensive guide for students on how we prevent and tackle harassment and sexual misconduct .
The University of Southampton is committed to creating an inclusive university community where everyone feels that they belong, which is free from bullying, harassment and discrimination.
This policy sets out the framework to deliver this commitment, including:
This policy applies to all students, staff and individuals working for or with the University.
Where stated, parts of this policy also apply to applicants to study or work at the University, and members of the public when they visit or access services provided by the University.
The University aims to apply the principles of this policy throughout its global operations.
Where this policy conflicts with local customs or the law of a non-UK jurisdiction, the University will take all reasonable and lawful steps to uphold its values and the principles of this policy.
This policy is informed and underpinned by a wide range of legislation, and will always have regard to current legislation and best practice including the following:
1.1 The University of Southampton is committed to creating an inclusive university community where equality, diversity and inclusion is seen as a major benefit.
We want equality, diversity and inclusion to be embedded in all areas of our education, work, services and knowledge exchange, and in the way that we make decisions.
1.2 As a member of the University, an applicant, or someone visiting our campuses or using our services, you should feel:
You are a member of a community that should collectively:
1.3 The University has policies and processes that support this commitment, set out in the sections below:
We will make this commitment clear to all members of our community and the public, and hold ourselves accountable by Measuring our Progress.
1.4 The University's Charter sets our our legal duties to promote equality of opportunity, prevent discrimination and protect academic freedom.
The University has further commitments under the Public Sector Equality Duty, the Prevent Duty, and the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act.
We aim to balance these duties, so that everyone feels they can join challenging and respectful debate, question and test received wisdom, and put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions, while keeping everyone safe from harm.
2.1 As a member of the University, you will be accountable for your actions, behaviours and decisions.
You will understand and carry out your responsibilities, as set out in the Responsibilities section of this policy.
2.2 The University's Student Charter complements this policy.
It sets out the expectations, rights and responsibilities of students and staff and how we work together as members of the University’s community.
2.3 You will treat everyone with respect and fairness while engaging with other members of the University or representing the University externally.
This means that you:
2.4 You should tell someone if you experience or witness Unfair Treatment (see Responsibilities ).
If someone else tells you about Unfair Treatment, then you will listen respectfully and take appropriate action.
The University has processes for reporting and Dealing with Unfair Treatment.
3.1 This policy applies to all students, staff and individuals working for or with the University.
These groups are referred to collectively as the “members of the University”.
For the purpose of this policy only:
“students” means undergraduate, postgraduate, foundation year, pre-sessional and summer school students, students on placement, students on distance learning programmes and visiting students including exchange students.
“staff” means all officers and employees whether full- or part-time with open-ended or fixed-term contracts.
“individuals working for or with the University” means all consultants and casual workers including those appointed through UniWorkforce, agency workers, volunteers, individuals with visitor status, all external members of the University's Council and its committees, external examiners, exam invigilators, clients, contractors, project partners, honorary staff and Emeritus Professors/Fellows (this list is non-exhaustive).
3.2 This policy applies to members of the University wherever they are involved with work or activities connected with their enrolment, employment or engagement with the University.
This includes but is not limited to conferences and sporting events, placements, field trips, social and sporting events, in shared accommodation, and any interactions via online platforms in connection with University of Southampton activities.
3.3 Where stated, this policy also applies to applicants and members of the public.
“applicants” means anyone in the process of applying to join the University as a student, staff, UniWorkforce worker or a member of the University’s Council.
“members of the public” means anyone who is visiting our campuses or using the services or online spaces we make available to the public.
3.4.1 The University is committed to creating an inclusive environment where the following “Recognised Characteristics” are all valued equally.
Through this policy, we aim to promote equality of opportunity, foster good relations and prevent Unfair Treatment for them all.
3.4.2 The University further aims to prevent Bullying, Harassment and Victimisation for students in relation to their Level of Study , and for staff and individuals working for or with the University in relation to their:
3.4.3 Nothing in this policy will take away from an individual’s legal rights.
The Equality Act 2010 directly applies to the “Protected Characteristics” marked [PC] above, while other Recognised Characteristics may have indirect or partial legal protection in Common Law.
The University aims to recognise and protect all Recognised Characteristics equally in the application of our policies and procedures, and in the services that we offer and provide, as far as is possible within the law.
3.5.1 In this policy, Unfair Treatment means Discrimination, Harassment, Bullying, Sexual Misconduct, Victimisation and Hate Incidents.
The University will not tolerate Unfair Treatment as defined in this policy wherever it occurs, including online (see 3.2 ).
You should report all suspected cases that you experience or witness (see 5.
Dealing with Unfair Treatment ).
3.5.2 Fair and reasonable supervision (including student projects and postgraduate study) and line management, including but not limited to the application of performance management and disciplinary procedures, is not Unfair Treatment.
However, if such action is found not to be fair and reasonable, or targets people who share a Recognised Characteristic, then it could be Unfair Treatment and will not be tolerated.
3.5.3 Discrimination means treating someone less favourably because of the Recognised Characteristics they have or they are assumed to have, or because of the Recognised Characteristics of someone they associate with.
Indirect Discrimination is where a policy, practice or decision applies to everyone in the same way that results in less favourable treatment for a group of people who share a Recognised Characteristic.
The University is committed to Preventing Discrimination, even where it favours someone from a minority group unless it is a reasonable way of achieving or promoting equality of opportunity.
In cases of Indirect Discrimination, the University may justify its decision if it is proportionate to achieving a legitimate aim.
3.5.4 Harassment is unwanted conduct that is intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive to someone or a group of people that is related to a Recognised Characteristic they have or are assumed to have.
Any unwanted behaviour may also be Harassment when it is not related to a Recognised Characteristic, especially if it is repeated.
3.5.5 Bullying is unwanted behaviour from a person or group that is offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting, or behaviour that abuses or misuses power to undermine, humiliate, or cause physical or emotional harm to someone.
Bullying does not have to be connected with any Recognised Characteristic.
It may not always be obvious or noticed by others.
It's possible someone might not know their behaviour is bullying.
It can still be bullying even if they do not realise it or do not intend to bully someone.
3.5.6 Sexual Misconduct is any conduct that includes (but not limited to) harassment, unwanted sexual advances, assault, rape, intimidation and/or promising benefits in return for sexual favours or the distribution of private or personal explicit material of individuals without their consent.
3.5.7 Victimisation means someone is threatened with or experiences disadvantage because they are involved in dealing with Unfair Treatment.
This includes making, intending to make or being assumed to have made a report or allegation of Unfair Treatment, and giving support, evidence or information on someone else’s case.
3.5.8 Hate Incidents are violent or hostile acts directed at someone because of a disability, race, religion, sexual orientation or trans identity.
If the act is a criminal offence, then it is a Hate Crime.
Whether an act is a hate incident depends on the motivation of the person who commits the act, regardless of the victim’s actual identity.
Someone can also be a victim of a hate incident because they are associated with the target.
3.5.9 To support the application of this policy for specific groups of people who share a Recognised Characteristic, the University may adopt additional definitions of Specified Unfair Treatment.
These definitions will be published with this policy and will be consulted as part of the processes and procedures outlined in 5.
Dealing with Unfair Treatment .
Definitions of Specified Unfair Treatment will only be adopted or amended following proper consideration of the University’s legal duties (see 1.4 ), consultation with our community (including the Students’ Union and our recognised Trade Unions) and relevant organisations of good standing.
3.6.1 Alongside the University’s legal duties (see 1.4 ) and the definitions set out above, the University recognises that the following concepts have an effect on inclusion and respectful behaviour.
Understanding of these concepts will guide the way we make decisions, apply our policies and investigate reports of Unfair Treatment.
3.6.2 Freedom of Speech and Academic Freedom : the freedom to express ideas, opinions and information, question and test received wisdom and put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions is essential to the aims of higher education.
As long as that expression is made in a lawful way, freedom of speech and academic freedom should be encouraged.
3.6.3 Power Dynamic : where someone has some control over another person’s wellbeing or success, there is a greater risk of victimisation.
This usually follows the supervisory or line management relationship, which makes it difficult for someone to challenge Unfair Treatment, but this is not always the case.
3.6.4 Privilege : the relative advantage that someone may experience compared to others because of their different Recognised Characteristics.
3.6.5 Positive Action : promoting equality of opportunity by providing additional support and encouragement to people whose Recognised Characteristics are under-represented.
3.6.6 Intersectionality : every individual’s experience is shaped by their specific combination of Recognised Characteristics.
3.6.7 Institutional Discrimination : the combined effect of organisational culture and expectations that, while maybe intended to be neutral or positive, result in less favourable treatment and experiences for people who share specific Recognised Characteristics.
4.1 The University recognises that everyone has different needs because of their Recognised Characteristics.
4.2 The University aims to make access to our campuses, buildings, online spaces and services equally safe and seamless for everyone.
We will carry out an Equality Impact Assessment of any proposal to create or change our physical and virtual spaces and services (see 6.
Preventing Discrimination ).
If we are unable to meet this aim in a specific case, then we will do what is lawfully reasonable and record the reasons for this.
4.3 The University respects your right to determine and express your own identity.
This includes disability, gender identity, religion, racial and cultural heritage, sexual orientation, and diet.
You should feel supported to express your identity appropriately, while being respectful to others and maintaining the health and safety of everyone.
4.4.1 The University community will listen when disabled people talk about their needs, and the University aims to design its campuses, services, and teaching and learning to be accessible for everyone.
We recognise that everyone’s experience of disability, health conditions and other impairments is different.
4.4.2 As an applicant or member of the University, we will ask you about your needs at appropriate points throughout your time with us.
Everyone (including members of the public) will have the opportunity to make their needs known when accessing one of our processes or services.
We recognise that your needs may change throughout your time with us, and you should tell us when your needs change so we can best support you.
4.4.3 When considering a reasonable adjustment for a disability, health condition or other impairment under the Equality Act 2010, we will discuss a range of options with you and aim to find a mutual agreement on the most appropriate and reasonable support to meet your needs.
If we consider a particular adjustment is not reasonable, then we will explain why and work with you to find another way to meet your needs.
4.4.4 We provide guidance for making adjustments for students and for staff , including specific guidance on Inclusive Teaching Practice and Accessibility .
The Student Disability and Inclusion Policy gives more detail on our support for students, including Disabled Students’ Allowance .
4.4.5 For staff and individuals working for or with the University, your line manager will make sure that the reasonable adjustments you have agreed are put in place.
Support is available from Human Resources and Occupational Health for all stages of providing reasonable adjustments.
With your agreement, the University will consider the advice and recommendations of an independent needs assessment or relevant organisation where appropriate.
4.4.6 Where reasonable adjustments are agreed and not put in place in good time, or they are not maintained without appropriate consultation with you, then this could amount to a breach of policy (see 8.
Compliance with this policy ).
4.5.1 The University aims to support you if you need time off in relation to a Recognised Characteristic.
Your tutor, supervisor or line manager will work with you to apply the available policies and regulations:
4.5.2 The University is a secular organisation and aims to recognise and support all religions and faiths equally.
For practical reasons, our standard week is Monday to Friday, and term dates and closure days are planned around UK public holidays.
We recognise this follows the Christian calendar and may not meet everyone’s needs.
While we cannot amend these dates, we will support you to apply the policies set out in 4.5.1 to take reasonable time off to observe your religion.
4.6.1 The University's campuses and buildings should be a safe space for everyone.
If you feel vulnerable for any reason while on one of our campuses, you can find refuge with supportive staff in a Safe Space .
These spaces are advertised on campus and online.
You can always seek support from Campus Security .
4.6.2 Every University campus has at least one room designated for prayer and reflection .
Highfield Campus hosts the Faith and Reflection Centre , a multifaith facility with many different faith advisors.
These facilities may feature objects, decorations and writings that represent and celebrate a range of different faiths, while maintaining the commitment set out in this policy to an inclusive university community where everyone feels that they belong.
The University will not tolerate objects, writings, practices or preaching in University spaces that meet the definition of Unfair Treatment in this policy.
4.6.3 The University aims to make all its public spaces child friendly , and our catering outlets are breastfeeding friendly.
We provide private spaces suitable for breastfeeding, expressing milk (including secure chilled storage) and resting during pregnancy.
Any other space that is not accessible to the public may not be suitable for children (see the Children and Young People in the Workplace Policy ).
4.6.4 You should feel safe accessing University spaces designated for the use of the gender that aligns with your Gender Identity.
The University aims to provide gender neutral spaces and facilities wherever possible.
4.6.5 The University aims to have quiet places on its campuses if you need to take time away from sensory stimulation.
Wherever the University provides or offers food and drink, there will be options that do not include meat, dairy or alcohol.
Items will be clearly labelled to show what does and does not include these ingredients.
The University may require you to wear a uniform, sports kit, or specific clothing for reasons of health and safety.
Where we provide or make this clothing available, we will ensure that that this fits you properly.
For all clothing requirements, we aim to offer an option or make adjustments that meets your needs because of a Recognised Characteristic.
4.9.1 The University is committed to recognising, supporting and protecting Gender Identity as one of our Recognised Characteristics.
You should feel supported to use your preferred name and access appropriate gender segregated spaces when you are on campus or accessing our services online (see 4.6.4 ).
4.9.2 The University has processes in place for students and staff to update their records with a different name, sex and gender identity by self-service wherever possible.
4.9.3 We will only ask you for supporting evidence where this is fair and reasonable.
We understand that our records could be used as evidence of lived experience to support an application for a Gender Recognition Certificate.
The University will never ask to see a Gender Recognition Certificate and will only ask to see identity documents to confirm a change of name or legal sex when legally required.
4.9.4 Students and staff intending to or currently undergoing a process of Gender Reassignment are encouraged to speak to the Student Hub or Employee Relations for support.
They will work with you to agree when and how:
5.1 The University is committed to dealing with Unfair Treatment.
If you experience or witness Unfair Treatment, then you should report it.
The University wants to make sure you get the support you need, and that reports are recorded so we can monitor how often, where and the kind of Unfair Treatment that takes place.
5.1.1 If you experience or witness Unfair Treatment, then you should tell someone as soon as possible:
5.2 Where an allegation of Unfair Treatment relates to the relationship between two or more members of the University, the Personal Relationships Policy may also apply.
Where an allegation relates to someone sharing views, opinions or ideas that are controversial or challenge received wisdom, the Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech and Academic Freedom may also apply.
5.3.1 Members of the University who experience or witness Unfair Treatment can access the support they need through Report and Support .
You are encouraged to report Unfair Treatment, but you do not have to make a report to access support.
Report and Support will direct you to the guidance and support appropriate to your case, and support you to take further steps if you want to.
5.3.2 All reports are confidential.
Each report is reviewed by a member of the Tackling Harassment Team for students or Employee Relations for staff to decide what further action is needed.
5.3.3 If you make an anonymous report, then this will improve our understanding of Unfair Treatment in the University, but we will not be able to take further action specific to your case.
If we find a pattern in the location or nature of Unfair Treatment reported anonymously, then we will consider taking appropriate action to prevent similar cases happening again.
5.3.4 If you make a named report, then your case will be assigned to an adviser.
They will contact you to discuss your case, find the right support for you, and help you to decide what you want to do next.
5.4.1 The University encourages all its members to be active bystanders.
If you witness Unfair Treatment or someone tells you about it, then you should:
5.4.2 If you are not comfortable dealing with Unfair Treatment at the time, then you should find someone who can provide support or use Report and Suppor t.
Make sure that the person who told you about Unfair Treatment is satisfied with the outcome or knows what should happen next.
5.4.3 The University will aim to resolve reports of Unfair Treatment informally and in good time.
In most cases, this will result in the best outcome for everyone involved.
Otherwise, cases will be referred to the appropriate University procedure or regulation (see 8.
5.4.4 When responding to a report of Unfair Treatment, the University will consider how our legal duties and other policies may apply, including the Personal Relationships Policy , Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech and Academic Freedom , and Whistleblowing Policy .
5.4.5 When a line manager witnesses Unfair Treatment by a member of their staff, the University expects them to act promptly and appropriately starting with informal action as set out in the University’s Disciplinary Procedure .
6.1 The University will support members of our community to understand and apply this policy.
We will offer training, guidance and advice on best practice that will promote equality of opportunity and prevent the potential for Unfair Treatment.
6.2 As part of our commitment to creating an inclusive university community, the University may make completion of training related to this policy mandatory.
We will make it clear if this applies to you and why it is important for you to complete this training.
It helps us to show that everyone in the University has the knowledge and awareness of what this policy means for them and how to apply it.
6.3 Whenever the University makes a significant decision, we need to show how it supports our commitment to creating an inclusive University community.
This includes decisions on policy, changing a process, procedure or service that we provide, or committing significant funds to a project or service.
The Public Sector Equality Duty specifically requires us to show consideration for delivering its aims: to remove discrimination, promote equality of opportunity, and develop good relations between groups of people with different protected characteristics.
We believe that Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs) are the best way to do this.
6.4 The University will maintain an Equality Impact Assessment process that supports staff to:
6.5 The University will maintain a database of equality impact assessments for all applicable decisions.
This will support us to show how the University is meeting its commitment to create an inclusive university community and the requirements of the Public Sector Equality Duty.
6.6 If you believe that a University decision, policy, process or service is discriminatory, then you can report it as Unfair Treatment – see 5.
7.1 The University will measure, update and publish its equality objectives at least every four years.
These objectives will set out how we will meet the Public Sector Equality Duty, and how we will plan to deliver on our commitment to create an inclusive university community where everyone feels that they belong.
7.2 The University will publish an annual report measuring our progress against the equality objectives.
This will include a summary of the steps we have taken and how successful they have been.
It will also include aggregated data that shows how much progress we have made.
7.3.1 An important part of measuring our progress is understanding who makes up our community.
This means that we will ask you about your Recognised Characteristics as a member of the University or someone who accesses our services.
7.3.2 The University will ask you about your Recognised Characteristics at the following times:
7.3.3 The information we hold is only valid if it is accurate and up to date.
If you are a student, we will ask you to update the information we hold about you when you enrol at the start of each academic year.
If you are a staff member, then you can update this information on MyView , and we will remind you to update this information annually.
7.3.4 The University will share aggregated data with relevant members of our community.
We will also publish some aggregated data as part of our legal obligations and reporting commitments.
This will help our community to understand how it is made up, and the progress we are making.
We will follow best practice guidance on aggregation to maintain your confidentiality.
The University will follow the principles set out in the Data Protection Policy for any personal data that we process in relation to this policy.
Most of these data are ‘special category data,' which need more care and justification to collect, process and share.
This is explained further in the University's Data Privacy Notice , including the measures we have in place to keep your special category data confidential.
8.1 Members of the University, applicants and members of the public reporting non-compliance with this policy should follow the steps set out in 5.
This section specifies which of the University’s formal policies, regulations and procedures will apply after following the steps set out in 5.
8.2.1 Student cases should be directed according to the nature of the complaint and who is the subject of that complaint:
8.2.2 Staff can report any breach of this policy by following the steps set out under 5.
Where a member of staff witnesses or is made aware of a breach of this policy, they have a responsibility to take appropriate and timely action (see 5.
If the matter cannot be resolved informally, then staff can raise a grievance under the University’s Grievance Procedure.
If the breach relates to a Hate Crime or Discrimination as a result of a University policy, process, procedure or decision, then the Whistleblowing Policy may also apply.
8.2.3 Applicants to study at the University should refer to the Regulations Governing Complaints for Applicants .
8.2.4 If a member of the public reports a breach of this policy, then the report should be sent to the manager of the service which relates to the complaint, including allegations of Bullying, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct or Hate Incidents that took place in the vicinity of that service.
For general complaints about the conduct of students or staff of the University, see the Community Complaints Process .
Any other complaint about non-compliance with this policy from a member of the public should be made to the Vice President Operations.
Students who fail to comply with this policy may face disciplinary action under the University’s Regulations Governing Student Discipline .
University staff who fail to comply with this policy may face disciplinary action under the University’s Disciplinary Procedure or other relevant procedures.
A serious breach of this policy may be found to be gross misconduct, and can lead to summary dismissal.
Individuals working for or with the University who fail to comply with or breach this policy may have their engagement with the University terminated.
Any member of the public who behaves in a way that breaches the expectations set out in this policy may be removed from a meeting or event (including online activities) or from the University’s premises.
Where an individual repeatedly fails to comply with this policy, the University reserves the right to revoke that person’s access to our premises or services.
The University reserves the right to take legal action against an individual as it finds necessary and appropriate.
You are responsible for knowing how this policy applies to you.
You should pay particular attention to 2.
Our Expectations of You .
If you are representing the University off-campus (including online meetings, social media, or taking part in a public engagement or student-led activity or sport), you should consider how any action you take will reflect on the reputation of the University and the commitments set out in this policy.
As someone in a position of trust and responsibility to other students, other staff and individuals working for or with the University, the University relies on you to provide the support set out in this policy and to take appropriate action if are told about or witness any Unfair Treatment.
The University will provide you with support, guidance and training to enable you to do this.
As the accountable body for the University, Council will set the University’s equality objectives, and receive and respond to annual reports on our progress against those objectives and our work to uphold the Public Sector Equality Duty.
As the executive leaders of the University, the President and Vice Chancellor, Vice-Presidents, Deans, and Executive Directors will be accountable for ensuring that the University monitors and meets the requirements set out in this policy through their day-to-day activities, decisions, policies, processes and regulations.
They will be responsible for delivering the equality objectives set by Council and reporting on our progress to Council.
This committee will support the University’s executive leaders to deliver its duties by proactively evaluating our progress against the equality objectives set by Council and the aims of the Public Sector Equality Duty, and proposing or supporting new policies, regulations and interventions that will deliver those objectives.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/edusupport/index.page:
Please contact the Student Hub to find out more about the support you can access.
You can email studenthub@soton.ac.uk , call +44(0)23 80599 599, or use their online chat .
If you wish to speak to someone in person, please visit Building 37 on Highfield Campus.
Find out more about the support available for students experiencing difficulties, including Wellbeing Chats, self-help resources, Wellbeing Practitioner appointments and counselling.
Support and services are provided for students with a wide range of disabilities and health conditions.
Support and services, such as specialist study skills support, are available for students with dyslexia and other specific learning differences.
Full diagnostic assessments can also be arranged.
Looking to access additional exam recommendations?
Click here for more information.
Student Disability and Inclusion Team and Student Wellbeing supports all Postgraduate Taught (PGT) and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students.
Students who may need support while at the University of Southampton can find out more here about how to access support through the Student Disability and Inclusion Team..
Find out more about upcoming events and regular news releases here.
Looking for more information, or have a question that needs answering?
Visit our most Frequently Asked Questions.
The Wellbeing Advisors are available 24/7, 365 days a year.
Find out more information about how you can contact them.
Book an online, 1:1 study skills appointment with a specialist practitioner (designed for students who may have a specific learning difference)
The Clarkson Rest and Study room is a designated space for students with disabilities or long-term health conditions.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/support-money/part-time-work:
You’ll find lots of part-time jobs for students in and around Southampton, including on our campuses.
And it’s not just about supplementing your student loan, as part-time work can give you experience that’ll boost your employability.
It’s important to find a balance between work and your studies.
Financial worries often take a huge toll on our emotional and physical wellbeing.
If you feel you could benefit from some further support please do consider contacting the Wellbeing team at The Student Hub .
As a University of Southampton student, we can help you find work locally, including:
Our online career platform, MyCareer, connects students with paid opportunities across the city and beyond.
There are plenty of job opportunities right here on campus that are likely to be more flexible than other part-time work.
Become a Student Ambassador, leading activities and being a role model to young people.
Get paid to have your say by becoming part of our Student Co-Design Panel.
Strategic projects are brought to the panel at conceptual stages, to collaborate and get students’ ideas, thoughts and concerns.
Work with the Student’s Union or take on temporary campus jobs, doing anything from catering to being a guest lecturer.
Our internships offer short-term, real-life experience in the working world.
All positions are fully paid and add great value to your CV and future application forms.
If you are coming to the UK on a Student visa (Previously Tier 4) you can work up to 20 hours a week during term time.
This doesn’t include work placements that are part of your course.
We’ll help you understand what you can and can’t do under your visa .
As a UK undergraduate student living at home, before your course starts the money that you earn from a part-time job should not affect your student loans.
This is because the money that you are entitled to depends on your family's household income.
If you are in other circumstances, such as living with a partner or supporting yourself as an independent student, then you will still be assessed on your household income and this may include your part-time earnings.
Find out more in the government's Student Finance Guide .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/support-money/health-services:
We encourage all our students, UK and international, to register with a local doctor.
Health services are mostly free at the point of need in the UK.
UK residents pay taxes that fund the National Health Service (NHS).
You might need to pay a healthcare surcharge (called the 'immigration health surcharge' or IHS) as part of your immigration application.
Whether you need to pay depends on the immigration status you're applying for.
Visit GOV.UK for more information on the healthcare application .
If your course of study in the UK is less than 6 months then you'll need to consider private health insurance.
Learn more about the Immigration Health Surcharge on the government website.
As a UK resident you can access all NHS services as you always have.
You should think about where you spend most of your time.
If most of your time is spent at the University and you're not working remotely from home you should register with a GP who's local to the campus.
NHS guide to getting medical care as a student
There are doctors and dentists either on or near both Highfield and Winchester campuses.
The University Health Service is based at Highfield Campus.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/highlights:
Uniting research disciplines, the University of Southampton aims to solve pressing global challenges.
Our work ranges from enhancing cancer treatments to revolutionising renewable energy and defeating COVID-19.
Uncover our multidisciplinary approach to a better future.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/projects:
By collaborating across different disciplines and subjects, our university researchers are taking on new projects to solve challenges in the modern world.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/areas:
We’re a global top 100, Russell Group university.
Explore our research areas and find out how our interdisciplinary work drives positive change in the world.
Through high quality research, we contribute to a better understanding of the experience of ageing amongst different groups and societies around the world.
Our research tackles archaeological challenges across many areas of the discipline, from human origins and prehistory to maritime and commercial archaeology.
The Winchester School of Art focuses their research on the current and future roles for art, design and media in current and future societies.
Staff, students and organisational partners come together to provide experimental, interdisciplinary and impact.
From global warming to life-threatening infections, we're working with industry and academic partners to tackle society's biggest challenges.
We work with public and private sector partners to make a difference, from better use of resources to improving management policy.
We deliver research with real impact, from helping clinicians prescribe the most effective cancer treatments to accelerating improvements in solar power.
We improve the world’s understanding of economic behaviour and societal problems.
Our research themes cover economic theory, experimental and applied economics, macroeconomics and econometrics.
We tackle research challenges to improve educational outcomes.
Our work is focused around inclusion, educational policy and maths, science and health education.
Electronics and Computer Science (ECS) is the leading university department of its kind in the UK.
We have an international reputation for research, with over 550 researchers working across a wide range of computer science and electronics topics.
From sustainable energy to resilient infrastructure, we're addressing some of the biggest challenges facing modern society.
Our research covers the range of modern literary studies, from medieval travel narratives to the African detective novel.
We research the links between national, transnational, and global identities, historical approaches and audio-visual aesthetics.
Our research addresses climate change, social and health inequalities, sustainable development, conservation of biodiversity, poverty and recession.
Our research activities focus on keeping people active for longer, improving wellbeing for those with life limiting conditions, patient safety and health work.
We study how people, institutions and communities have behaved, and how societies have changed.
Our research spans a range of law areas including the relationship between law, policy and society.
Other specialisms include insurance, maritime and commercial law and the legal issues around equality and discrimination.
From black hole dynamics to public health planning, our research makes an important contribution to addressing scientific, engineering and social challenges.
We have an international reputation for making important scientific discoveries in the lab and translating them into successful clinical treatments.
Our research covers French, German, Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American languages, with a particular focus on linguistics, literature, society, history, and transnational studies.
Southampton is an internationally-recognised centre of excellence for research in music.
We were ranked top in the UK by the most recent national research evaluation (REF 2014).
We’re a major European centre for oceanography and marine geoscience.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework 98% of our overall research was rated world leading or internationally excellent.
Our research covers topics ranging from traditional esoteric pursuits to real-world applications such as the ethics of infant feeding and self-driving cars.
Our research covers optical fibres, nanophotonics and metamaterials, and photonics systems, circuits and sensors.
Our work is centred around astronomy, quantum light and matter, and theoretical particle physics.
We analyse political decisions made in the UK and around the world to understand how they affect people’s sense of place, their movement and their human rights.
Our scientific research examines the brain and behaviour in health and disease.
We investigate perception and cognition, mental health, self and identity, and health psychology.
We research population change to inform social policy.
Our demographers specialise in family and fertility, migration and mobility, and health and mortality.
Our statisticians specialise in statistical methodology.
Our sociologists, criminologists and academics in social policy explore topical areas such as crime, education, work and social inequality.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/facilities:
Our modern university research facilities, archives, and buildings give you access to the best equipment to advance your research.
We provide micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) imaging of soft-tissue samples.
We carry out advanced three-dimensional imaging and computed tomography.
We can carry out research using our water channel reactors and bioreactors up to production scale.
Our facilities are located in Southampton and Spain.
This laboratory is home to more than 250 kinds of anaerobic digesters.
We carry out research from lab study to commercial operating plant.
The BIO-R provides expert bioinformatics consulting and data analysis solutions.
This facility supports a wide range of research and commercial activities across the maritime, aerospace, energy and transportation sectors.
Traditional insulator and bushing designs using either ceramics or glass have been superseded by polymeric and composite designs, areas in which we have a lot of experience.
We are very experienced in the testing of parent cable, joints and terminations and have developed facilities specifically for several bespoke electrical, thermal and mechanical tests.
We are a world-class facility for chemical and isotopic analysis of natural and anthropogenic materials.
Our laboratory suite supports research and teaching in Environmental Science.
The Chemical Nanoanalysis Scanning Electron Microscope (CNSEM) facility offers a high resolution field emission SEM, in combination with dual-EDS and correlative Raman spectrometer.
We host 11 different mass spectrometry instruments with a range of ionisation techniques, analyser types and chromatography inlets.
Our informatics services cover clinical trials management, form design, data integration, health research analysis and clinical innovation.
The Coastal Research Laboratories are dedicated to the study of coastal, estuarine and shelf sea hydrodynamics and sediment transport, and interactions between flow, sediment, ecosystems and infrastructure.
Our confocal microscope provides optical sectioning of samples.
This allows us to create 3D reconstructions.
Our facility is designed to handle and contain the most dangerous human pathogens
Coral reef science: inspiring awareness of the need to protect marine ecosystems.
Our deep-ultraviolet scanner is a unique capability within UK academic research.
Use our immersive, virtual reality and digital production facilities to create and explore artefacts, environments and recordings for your humanities research.
The driving simulator offers an immersive driving experience for human factors research.
We operate at the intersection of textiles and electronics, blending design with engineering.
Our electron beam lithography facility hosts the first 200 kilovolt system outside of Japan.
Our electron diffraction facility enables single-crystal structure analysis of crystallites too small for single-crystal X-ray diffraction experiments.
We have a range of electrophysiology instruments capable of measuring electrical fields in both sectioned explants and adherent cells
Our work focusses on the design and optimization of wastewater treatment technologies and bioenergy research.
This Laboratory Suite supports research and teaching in Physical Geography.
Uncovering new frontiers of understanding using environmental sensing.
We perform a range of wet lab protocols, ranging from nucleic acid quality assurance to library preparation and in-house sequencing.
Our eye tracking facilities can record human eye movement which helps us research language processing and visual threat detection.
We explore the production of biofuels in our environmental biotechnology facilities.
Equipment includes fermenters and downstream processors.
Fully equipped dark room suitable for a variety of spectroradiometric experiments.
The flame hydrolysis deposition facility supports the industrial process for producing planar lightwave circuits.
This includes the array waveguide gratings used in telecommunication networks.
We investigate ways to create hydroelectric power using a range of small and large scale flumes and wave tanks.
Our widefield and zoom fluorescence microscopes permit the specific labelling of up to four targets simultaneously.
This facility supports research in nanoelectronics, nanophotonics, silicon photonics and quantum devices research.
As a laboratory that has a significant profile of insulation research, we are very well equipped with tools and measurement apparatus that are applicable to forensic study of dielectric materials.
This facility is for standard and advanced soil element testing, including rail track bed materials.
The Geospatial computing facility is a specialised IT facility for Geospatial data.
We research the effects of  climate change on infrastructure without waiting for it to happen.
The high energy laboratory provides additional off-campus space to allow testing and operation of high voltage and power energy storage and production systems.
We study the seabed and the near-seabed subsurface at better than 1m resolution using acoustic tools.
The Tony Davies high voltage laboratory (TDHVL) is our centre for research into dielectric materials and insulation systems, as well as high voltage and related phenomena.
We process cells and tissue samples into a range of mediums including frozen, paraffin, and resin.
The facility provides histological microscopes for colourimetric imaging, plus additional equipment for the sectioning, preservation and processing of specimens.
We specialise in processing and characterisation of thin film materials from solution, such as those employed in flexible or wearable optoelectronic devices and battery research.
The Imaging and Microscopy Centre is a core facility for advanced life sciences imaging at Southampton University.
Our on-road instrumented vehicle can be used for naturalistic studies of driving and driver behaviour.
Learn more about the Iridis, University’s High Performance Computing System
Our anechoic chamber is a silent room 'without echoes' used for carrying out standard acoustical tests.
This facility tests structures, components and materials at a range of scales across a wide range of application areas.
We have a live imaging system that allows us to investigate living cells using time lapse microscopy.
The Magnetic Resonance facility hosts 9 NMR spectrometers, as well as customised and ancillary equipment.
We carry out marine controlled source electromagnetic (CSEM) surveys - for both academic and applied research topics.
The Maritime Robotics Laboratory at the University of Southampton aims to develop the next generation of ocean going robots.
The material innovation laboratory facility offers a range of capabilities ranging from synthesis and characterisation to full research projects focusing on high-throughput methodology.
We specialise in the characterisation of materials in terms of electrical, mechanical and thermal properties, which plays an important role in product development.
The nanofabrication cleanrooms houses a fully featured suite of semiconductor processing tools as well as a planar fabrication laboratory.
This facility contains 5 engineering laboratories.
It carries out research into improving and developing infrastructure.
We specialise in advanced material development.
This ranges from exotic 2D semiconductors to bulk glasses with wide optical transparency.
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is a highly effective analytical tool that enables the assignment of functional groups, atom connectivity, and 3D molecular structures by combining a wide range of 1D and 2D NMR experiments.
We provide expert analyses for dissolved inorganic and organic nutrients, as well as carbonate chemistry, in diverse freshwater and seawater samples.
With a 1 way mirror and recording suite we use this lab to observe and investigate social interactions.
We aim to provide the academic and commercial communities with access to multi-sensor, versatile seabed instruments to enable sub-surface geophysical imaging at high vertical and lateral resolution.
We have a dedicated sample preparation lab, wet chemistry lab space, and an instrumentation lab.
We have a dedicated temperature-controlled laboratory, with specialist equipment for understanding pain response.
We specialise in the study of environmental change over recent Geological time.
The plant growth facility provides a glasshouse and a selection of Controlled Environment Rooms (CERs) capable of housing traditional and novel plants.
The powder and materials diffraction facilities offer a range of capabilities from simple phase identification through to complex materials analysis.
We are a purpose-built laboratory designed for evaluating medical and consumer products.
Here we make novel thick-film sensors, actuators and systems printed using silk screen and inkjet printers.
Using equipment like facial electromyography we explore the relationship between the mind and body to see how they interact.
NNUF-EXACT is a centre for radiochemistry.
We provide research and training in the accelerated nuclear characterisation and remediation technologies.
We have worked with many clients who require use of our facilities for testing a varied range of components and equipment for the railway industry.
Our multi-purpose research aquarium houses a variety of tanks and facilities for keeping and handling live specimens.
R.V.Callista based at NOCS, is available to staff and students of Ocean and Earth Science
We have a large and a small reverberation chamber which we use for acoustic testing.
This workshop is furnished with all the equipment needed to design and make scientific glassware for research and development.
We specialise in the manufacture and research of doped and structured fibres.
Our equipment includes fibre towers and modified chemical vapor deposition lathes.
We also house a range of preform and fibre characterisation tools.
We provide a structure characterisation service and conduct research in chemical crystallography.
We are home to four extremely high powered rotating anode diffractometers, with two copper source and two molybdenum source instruments.
We design, manufacture and fly uncrewed aerial vehicles (UAVs) for research purposes.
We have a super-resolution microscope which provides a range of advanced imaging techniques.
We are very experienced in testing of switchgear and associated plant as well as enclosures.
This regional and national centre for experimental mechanics research contains equipment capable of testing materials and structures across a range of scales.
We are a purpose-built laboratory designed for researching how skin responds to thermal environments.
We have experience of testing medium voltage and current transformers and our impulse generators can be adapted to meet most test waveform requirements.
Our human computer interface technology lets us mimic physical sensations.
We explore the way humans combine vision and touch to work out shape and material properties.
This is one of our larger wind tunnels.
We use it for student research projects, wind engineering studies and marine industry work.
The R J Mitchell Wind Tunnel is the largest of our wind tunnels.
It's ideal for vehicle aerodynamic work and performance sport testing.
It can also be used for consultancy.
The X-ray diffraction imaging facility is suited for work including crystal structure determination, high resolution surface texture mapping, and texture pole plotting.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/partners.page:
We collaborate with our research partners on projects that directly benefit industry, the economy and society.
Collaboration helps us to push the boundaries of research even further.
Equipment sharing allows us to maximise the use of our specialist facilities .
Our wind tunnels, for instance, are useful for many different kinds of businesses in their research and development of new products.
Data sharing gives us access to a much wider range of information than anything that one organisation could collect on its own.
Our research centre looking into population change , which shares data with the Office for National Statistics and the General Registrar Office in Scotland, would not be able to create statistically significant results without collaborative research partners.
Knowledge and expertise sharing allows us to share crucial information between businesses, and other research institutions - advancing our research much more quickly.
Our planned Cancer Immunology Centre hopes to capitalise on having a wide range of experts working together to bring about new breakthroughs.
We have close relationships with several UK charities which fund research into cancer, Alzheimer’s, arthritis and heart disease.
These charities fund PhD research in their areas of interest, share information and keep our researchers connected with others working on similar issues.
We also house the charity Gift of Sight which we support closely from our optometry department.
It is also vital for the success of a great deal of our research to maintain close links with policy makers and government bodies.
We work hard to ensure that the key messages from our research projects are communicated so that the country can benefit.
The Office of National Statistics, and the NHS also provide us with the latest data for a wide variety of our projects.
We have formal and informal research partnerships with countless universities from all around the world, from the University of Bern to the University of Massachusetts.
We work with Bath, Bristol, Exeter and Surrey universities in our SETsquared partnership .
Together we support tech-start-ups, encourage student enterprise and help researchers make their work commercially viable.
We are one of the founding members of the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN) which creates opportunities for international collaboration in research and graduate education.
We also collaborate with the other research universities working on projects sponsored by Boeing where we focus on sharing knowledge and resources to support our aeronautical and engineering work.
We work closely with all of our Russell Group partners, as well as supporting the less formal partnerships that many of our researchers have with colleagues from other universities.
The Unviersity of Southampton is a member of the SPRINT partnership (Space Research and Innovation Network for Technology), a unique partnership of top UK space universities, industry, government agencies and the investment community dedicated to supporting the growth of small to medium enterprises (SMEs) in the UK through the commercial exploitation of space data and technologies.
SPRINT funds research to benefit SMEs with a network that is rapidly expanding.
Through this network, academics have the chance to collaboratively work with companies to bring those ideas to market through fully-funded, high-impact projects.
Southampton is one of five SPRINT Universities, all with significant space expertise.
Working with SPRINT can help research groups meet and exceed their targets for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF).
They are also 100% FEC-funded.
Contact Southampton’s SPRINT Innovation Advisor Frances Clarke at fmc@soton.ac.uk or visit the SPRINT partnership website to find out more.
At Southampton, we pride ourselves on our close understanding of business and industry.
This helps us to make sure our teaching and research is relevant to the needs of modern businesses.
We have many partnerships with businesses both local and global which take many forms from Knowledge Transfer Partnerships , to secondments, and consultancy .
We have had a partnership with IBM , for instance, for more than 25 years.
Our researchers work with IBM on developing new technologies and models in mathematics and electronics, among many others.
In return, IBM has helped our researchers to use super computers to further their work, and given advice on how to improve university IT infrastructure.
University Technology Centres
We host five University Technology Centres in collaboration with leading organisations – Microsoft , Airbus , Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) , Lloyd’s Register and Rolls-Royce .
These centres enable intensive research and development and technology innovation between the university and industry.
Learn about how our research centres engage in innovative research
Discover our world-class facilities
Learn about how we support our researchers to commercialise their work

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres:
The research institutes and groups at the University of Southampton are among the best in Europe.
Our experts cover a range of different disciplines, giving you a wide choice of specific topics from single subject areas.
We explore the science and real-world application of acoustics.
Our research includes underwater acoustics, aeroacoustics, and virtual acoustics.
The Active Living research group aims to enable lifelong active living through enhancing movement and general health.
We focus on the physical and mental health and well-being of young people.
We aim to ensure healthy futures for them and future generations.
We are dedicated to exploring advanced applications of cutting-edge optical fibres, with a special emphasis on hollow core fibres.
These fibres are designed and fabricated by the Zepler Institute Hollow Core Fibre group, while our group focuses on as...
Advanced Laser Laboratory is a joint TRUMPF Lasers UK (formerly SPI Lasers) and Optoelectronics Research Center (ORC) lab.
The group is led by Dr C Codemard (TRUMPF) and Professor M N Zervas (ORC), embedded in the ORC, addressing fundamental fibre la...
We are a community of academic experts and industry leaders working in collaboration with project professionals and research bodies for the advancement of project management knowledge and practice.
Our focus is on people, technology and processes.
The Advanced Solid-State Sources group develops novel approaches for scaling output power from lasers for use in a variety of applications including industrial manufacturing, medicine and defence.
Our group undertakes top-class research on fundamental fluid dynamics, applied aerodynamics, flow control, flight dynamics and aeroacoustics.
We research care systems and experiences of care in the context of getting older and/or living with dementia.
We provide solutions that help people to stay well and independent for as long as possible, and support researchers to develop capacities in...
We research the science and engineering of complex systems.
We focus on areas including human-machine teams and human-in-the-loop interaction.
Our Hub brings academics and non-academics together.
We aim to connect music research to real world settings.
This informs government policy to make a lasting impact on musical communities across the UK.
We are a collaborative group of about 60 scientists and clinician scientists working to a common goal: how to harness the immune system to cure cancer.
Our research focuses on understanding fundamental cellular processes in biological systems.
This guides the design of therapeutics for cancer and autoimmune disease.
We investigate how the immune system recognises and responds to cancer, enabling a mechanistic understanding for the development of new therapies for patients.
The Applied Economics group produces innovative research that furthers and deepens our understanding of economic behaviour and global economic challenges, that informs and influences economic policy.
We focus on mathematical modelling and mathematical physics, and investigate everything from neutron stars to superfluids.
Our group covers a wide range of fundamental and applied research in space physics and spacecraft engineering.
We study space and cosmic phenomena above the Earth’s atmosphere.
We use observations of the heavens to better comprehend our place in the Solar system, to improve our understanding of the origin and growth of galaxies, extreme objects such as black ...
ACoRNS is a research-practice partnership that aims to improve the lives of autistic children and adults through addressing questions that matter to practice and enabling autistic voices by applying creative methods.
Our groups research uses large volumes of complex, heterogeneous, multi-dimensional and often unstructured dataset from different sources.
We aim to understand patterns, trends, and associations of diseases to inform preventive action.
We integrate human osteoarchaeology and zooarchaeology to explore aspects of past human identities, migration, diet, disease, and religious practices.
Our research focuses on the application of engineering principles to the life sciences.
We're exploring ways to solve problems across the medicine and healthcare space.
Using advanced omics technologies to explore the complex biology of cancers.
We provide state-of-the-art facilities, research and diagnostic services in high quality, high resolution light and electron microscopy, with a special emphasis on 3D imaging.
Technological advances have allowed scientists to gather large amounts of data about a vast array of species, organisms and single cells.
Our researchers are using mathematical modelling, machine learning and other algorithms to extract information ...
Our research aims to find sustainable solutions for people living with bladder and bowel leakage problems to improve their quality of life.
We explore new technologies and treatments to promote the repair and regeneration of bones and cartilage.
Our research cuts across the boundaries of the biological, medical and physical sciences.
BRAIN UK is a virtual brain bank, making archived tissue samples available for research across the UK.
Our research translates new understanding of tumour B-cell biology into clinical practice.
We research how cells become specialised, communicate with each other and respond to the environment, leading to an impact on the development of cancer, neurological diseases and the function of the immune system.
We aspire to advance accounting education through innovation, research, and collaboration, equipping educators and students to address real-world financial challenge.
We utilise, develop, and apply experimental methods to study key questions in the behavioural and social sciences.
We engage with societal challenges via research, consultancy, policy outreach, and training postgraduate students, early-career researc...
We undertake interdisciplinary research involving scientists and clinicians.
Through worldwide collaborations, we combine our expertise to understand and develop potential new treatments for cancer.
We promote the application of psychology to improve health and wellbeing, and to alleviate or prevent health problems, in clinical and non-clinical populations.
Our multi-disciplinary research responds to the breadth of defence and security requirements, delivering leading edge capability to both government and to our industrial partners.
We carry out interdisciplinary research on the conditions of achieving democratic futures, ranging from conceptual debates to challenges of institutional innovation and public policy.
We provide a forum to share ideas and information, supporting each...
Our research characterises how the environment during human development contributes to risk of chronic disease, underpinning resilience to challenges in later life.
The Centre for Digital Finance is at the forefront of understanding the complex interrelationship between finance and emerging transformational technologies.
We are dedicated to advancing knowledge of a complex region that has been of key significance in shaping both historical and contemporary developments across the world.
Our aim is to enhance understanding of the growing challenges that corporations, financial markets and banks are facing in developing national and global landscapes.
The political salience of England and British identities was evident in recent elections and referenda.
The centre explores both the formation and meaning of these identities and England’s local and national governance.
We bring together expertise working on flexible, stretchable functional materials for electronic systems.
The Centre fosters cutting-edge collaborative research in geometry, topology, homotopy theory, noncommutative geometry and group theory and provides a focal point for interdisciplinary applications in modern data science.
Global Constitutionalism is an interdisciplinary field of study that draws on insights from politics, law, international relations, political theory, and philosophy to study the basic laws and norms of the international system.
We conduct and share research about how the English language is used around the world.
In particular, we focus on different forms of English and its role as a common language.
We enable collaboration and knowledge exchange with researchers and centre...
GHaP aims to be a central focus of social science related global health research within the School of Social, Economic and Political Sciences and the whole of the University of Southampton.
The Centre for Green Maritime Innovation will be a national facility driving technology to cut maritime emissions.
Our research areas are: Optimizing Treatment and Behaviours; Novel Medical Devices and Systems; Community Health and Wellness; AI and Health.
Bringing partners together to become a global leader in healthcare analytics that significantly impacts everyone’s health.
The CHDSCR brings together researchers studying stem cells and development and ways to promote the regeneration of diseased or injured tissues.
We aim to provide an environment where excellent scientists can make exciting discoveries for patient bene...
We specialise in the study of the global empires that have defined so much of the world for centuries, and which continue to profoundly shape it today.
CISEI builds on an interdisciplinary collaborative foundation to understand sustainability holistically, to co-create knowledge and value for a range of stakeholders, including individuals, communities and organisations.
We use our expertise in child development, psychological interventions and affective neuroscience to research ways to help those affected by mental health issues.
We provide an interdisciplinary forum for the University's research in Film Studies and other screen media.
The Centre for International Law and Globalisation (CILG) was established in 2022 and brings together researchers working in a broad range of fields of international and global law.
We bring together researchers who are creating the future of internet of things and pervasive systems, from underpinning semiconductor and sensor devices, machine intelligence and data science, through to new application domains.
The Centre for Justice Studies (CJS) comprises a collaborative network of legal and other scholars concerned with exploring questions of criminal law, criminal justice and punishment.
We provide a wide range of language learning courses and resources, for students.
CLLEAR promotes the excellence of research in areas of Linguistics and Applied Linguistics.
Our members’ research is concerned with cognitive and socio-cultural aspects of language, language use, and language education.
Centre for Machine Intelligence (CMI) is a platform involving researchers and practitioners with the aim to deliver the impact of machine intelligence to society.
We are a world leading centre for maritime archaeological research and education.
We offer cutting-edge training and hands-on learning opportunities, shaping the future of maritime archaeology.
We research the science and art of marketing, focusing on areas like consumer behaviour, branding, and digital and data science.
We are a vibrant community of researchers composed of four departments of the School of Humanities (Archaeology, English, History and Music) who promote an interdisciplinary perspective on medieval and Renaissance studies.
The Centre for Modern and Contemporary Writing supports interdisciplinary research on 20th and 21st-century writing and culture.
We are advocates for equality in music education.
We bring together music practitioners and local, national and international partners in conversations about social justice and the alleviation of inequality, powerlessness and discrimination.
We apply advanced mathematical and analytical modelling to help people and businesses make better decisions.
We’re one of the largest groups of our kind in the UK.
We investigate cognitive psychology and human perception processes through vision, touch and sound.
Our research explores high-level functions, including learning, memory, metacognition and reading.
As the first UK-based centre dedicated to ethnographic research in politics, CPE promotes the use of ethnographic methods in political science and fosters interdisciplinary dialogue among researchers studying politics in its various dimensions in eve...
We explore the causes of population change and the effects on people, communities and governments.
Lawmakers and planners use our research to make policy decisions that improve society and the world we live in.
The Centre for Private and Commercial Law encourages academic staff in researching and building impact in all aspects of private and commercial law, regulation and policy.
The research we carry out increases our understanding of the psychosocial effects of cancer on daily life.
By managing its impact we can improve health outcomes and help people live well.
Our central aim is to bring world leading scholars in Accounting together to exchange knowledge and expertise to address persistent challenges affecting our national and international societies and environment.
Our educational researchers are working to further theoretical understandings and practices of inclusion, through participatory and practitioner-based methodologies.
The Centre for Research on Ageing is an international and multi-disciplinary research centre examining key issues in ageing and the lifecourse, informing policy and debate at the national and local level.
We study how people understand themselves, their emotions, and their relationships to provide insights that enhance personal growth, social connections, and understanding of human behaviour.
We are a hub for research-active staff from the Department of Human Resource Management & Organisational Behaviour.
We respond critically to academic, policy and practitioner debates around a broad range of work and organisations-related issues.
Our research addresses how systems thinking and approaches can ensure the delivery of desired societal and business outcomes.
We strive to make positive change and contribute to a resilient and sustainable future for generations to come.
Our aim is to better understand the nature of risk and decision-making through research, consultancy and education.
We develop new approaches to risk analysis, and help individuals and organisations improve the quality of their decision-making.
Our mission is to bridge the gap between robot perception, control, and interaction to lead the creation of robotic systems that seamlessly integrate into society, transforming industries and lives.
We delve into the lives of ancient hominin species, deciphering their societal structures from diverse evidence to piece together how these ancient species organised themselves as individuals and societies.
Our interdisciplinary research centre brings together researchers, educators, cultural producers and the refugee voluntary sector to increase understanding of cross-border processes.
We connect experts in sustainability accounting and reporting to support the integration of sustainability into our research, education, and enterprise initiatives.
The Characterisation and Analytics research group specialises in research-led analytical problem-solving by using the latest instruments to examine and analyse chemical data.
We contribute to the progress of new developments in healthcare, the environment, bioenergy systems and bio-nanotechnology.
Our group of education specialists and researchers provides technical support to make sure our chemistry students are ready for research.
Advances in chemistry and molecular biology have revolutionised our understanding of life’s building blocks.
We design, explore, and apply these molecules to advance biotechnology, medicine, and sustainability.
Our research focuses on the physical and mental health of Children and Adolescents.
We are a group of  clinicians working together to increase the numbers of patients cured of cancer.
Our expertise spans across many fields, from haematological and medical oncology to immunology.
Our work spans coronary and structural heart disease, rhythm abnormalities and pacing, as well as heart failure and complex devices.
We bring together interdisciplinary expertise to address ethical, legal and psychosocial issues of implementing new technologies.
Southampton Law School’s Clinical Legal Education initiative offers students the opportunity to engage in experiential learning through its Global Legal Clinic.
We study clinical areas that include major human infectious diseases and diseases that affect the central nervous system.
Coastal Communities SIG focuses on bringing together researchers and non-academic stakeholders to tackle challenges facing coastal communities.
We're a centre for multidisciplinary engineering simulation and design, and combine a range of analytical, computational and experimental techniques.
We develop theoretical models and computer simulations for a wide range of photonics systems, such as optical fibres, integrated waveguides, and quantum technology.
Our research activities cover a range of computational techniques and theories, from multi-scale modelling to semiconductor and metallic nanoparticles.
Critical Infrastructure and Image Politics (CIIP) is a research group dedicated to investigating the politics of contemporary digital and visual cultures at the intersection of media art and critical theory.
We explore and develop mechanisms controlled or monitored by computer-based processes.
We bring together expertise and excellence in the field of cyber security research and education.
We bring together leading researchers, government bodies, and key industrial players from underpinning semiconductor chips security, digital forensics, artificial intelligence, and blockchain to create future secure systems through world-class resear...
We study and describe culture using qualitative research methods drawn from anthropology.
We foster dialogue and collaboration within and beyond Modern Languages, examining the pedagogical, scholarly, and socio-political relevance of ethnography.
We undertake innovative research into the causes of dementia, helping to develop and test new biomarkers and treatments.
The Demographic and Migration Modelling research group develop innovative methods for estimating and forecasting demographic change.
Discovering developmental processes from conception, throughout pregnancy and during childhood, and innovating medical monitoring and diagnostics that create the best start to life and optimise life-long health.
We develop theory, computational methods, and associated software, to enhance our understanding of chemical systems and processes.
The University supports us with high-performance computing resources.
Our researchers are examining and developing information and communication technologies to help address the health problems and challenges faced by patients.
Our group brings together engineers and computer scientists to discover new approaches to prevent, diagnose and manage health and medical conditions.
Our research is end-to-end across digital health from sensors and meditech through to data science, ...
We take digital and computational approaches to humanities research.
Our work includes research on digital infrastructures, digital media and cultures, critical data studies, and computational analysis.
A collaborative platform for exploring advancements and exchanging expertise in digital technology within the marine and maritime space.
We foster innovation and research.
We provide bespoke, flexible digital preservation  solutions for organisations in all sectors, empowering you to safeguard your collections into the future.
We design and develop novel optical fibre sensors capable of measuring temperature, strain, and vibration at thousands of points using a single strand of optical fibre.
Such sensors have applications in wide range of fields from aerospace and civil e...
Our group's research covers a wide range of interests in the modelling, measurement and control of structural vibrations.
Our research focuses on adaptations to changing environments, including the responses of organisms to stress factors brought about by environmental change at physiological, population and community levels.
The Econometrics group produces research in both econometric theory and applied econometrics with particular emphasis on methods and applications designed to deepen our understanding of economic and financial problems.
Economic theory provides a framework for understanding how people make decisions about allocating resources.
We test and refine these theories in controlled experiments to better understand economic behaviour and inform policy makers to improve the w...
We are a group of human geographers with research interests in economic, social, and political geographies.
We aim to improve education across the whole of Electronics and Computer Science in a meaningful, healthy, and sustainable way.
The Electrical Power Engineering (EPE) Research Group is part of the School of Electronics and Computer Science at the University of Southampton.
Our expertise ranges from nanoscale insulation materials and plasma, through to electrical power systems...
The Electrochemistry Group has research programmes to generate new materials and new electrochemical approaches to energy conversion and storage.
This includes research into fuel cells, thermoelectrics, lithium batteries and supercapacitors.
The research group addresses societal challenges in energy and climate change in response to the University’s mission 'to change the world for the better'.
We have a strong interest in the fundamentals of electrochemical science and technology including interactions with biological systems, cavitation, microelectrode techniques, new technique development and scanning methods.
We research modern scientific and technological challenges faced by the world, with a focus on energy efficiency, emerging energy technologies and sustainability.
We’re working to enable surface interactions to occur with minimal energy loss and impact on the environment through enhanced materials performance and improved designs.
We carry out geospatial analysis and experimentation to understand environmental change and its impact on climate around the world.
Our work has socio-economic impact and informs environmental policy and decision making.
Our group is internationally known for its research on various aspects of Hydraulic Engineering and Environmental Fluids Mechanics, such as: 
 low-head hydropower, wave energy, sediment transport, development of numerical and mathematical models.
Our research utilises a multidisciplinary approach to explore the mechanisms underlying the interplay between environmental factors, genetic and epigenetic processes and their influence on disease risk across the lifecourse.
We train future research and innovation leaders across the multi-disciplinary themes of digital, physical and biological systems engineering.
Southampton Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC) delivers access to world class experimental cancer medicine for the population of southern England and beyond.
Our department is recognised for its use of quantitative and qualitative methods to study social processes and family change.
We design and fabricate passive and active periodic fibre devices, including fibre Bragg gratings, for a variety of applications in photonics.
We develop new fibre technologies and explore their applications in areas including communications, sensing, lasers, materials processing and imaging.
Our research group examines the synthesis of new materials and functional molecules that contribute to innovation and technology.
The Future Towns Innovation Hub is a collaborative physical and virtual space designed to foster happy, healthy and prosperous places.
We study and design serious games to support learning and social change, helping organisations and communities tackle real-world challenges.
Hollow core fibres enable gas-light interactions over extended lengths, opening up diverse applications in high sensitivity gas sensing, novel wavelengths generation, and waveguide enhancement.
GAIN is an interdisciplinary community of scholars studying gender and inequalities at Southampton.
We work with relevant local, national and international organisations to undertake research of real-world value.
Image: Barbara Hepworth, Two Forms ...
We aim to help people with inflammatory bowel disease using genetic research and clinical data analysis to personalise diagnoses and treatments.
We use advanced facilities to perform the precise and accurate analysis of the chemical and isotopic composition of Earth materials.
We manage, analyse and process environmental data.
Our consultancy services and interdisciplinary research projects range from managing river catchments and coastal zones to the wider fields of environment, social and economic development.
We research in a wide range of societally impactful areas of geology and geophysics for a sustainable future, enabled by state-of-the-art facilities and technology development.
The Global Health research group in Social Statistics and Demography is focused on exploring health issues and inequalities around the globe, especially in low- and middle-income countries.
The Global Health Community of Practice is an open forum to support all members working across global health in either research, education or knowledge exchange, and innovation.
Research conducted by the Southampton Gravity group focuses on gravitational waves, general relativistic spacetimes around black holes, and the properties of ultra-dense matter in neutron stars, such as superfluidity and superconductivity of nuclear ...
We research how healthcare is organised and delivered in a range of contexts, with the aim of achieving better outcomes for patients.
The High Power Fibre Laser group, led by Professor Johan Nilsson, works on advanced fibre lasers for beam combination and sensing for lidar and net-zero aviation (pollution monitoring).
We are world leaders in Hollow Core Optical Fibre research.
Our ground-breaking fibres guide light at vacuum speeds and unprecedented intensities, enabling advances in telecoms, manufacturing and sensing.
Our research is centred around understanding the mechanisms of disease, using contemporary techniques and bioinformatics to identify and understand the basis of human disease and translating this for patient benefit.
We research quantum light-matter interactions between atomic ensembles and single photons.
We aim to merge these systems to form large-scale quantum photonic networks for processing over global distances.
Iris is the world’s only research centre dedicated to developing intelligent, self-powered sensing systems.
We operate in some of Earth’s most remote, harsh environments, giving a better understanding of the natural phenomena that occur at the extrem...
We aim to promote health and quality of life for neurodivergent people and people with learning disabilities through embedded inclusive research practices.
We explore pathogens causing infectious diseases of global importance.
Our research involves understanding how pathogens interact with their hosts and using this information to develop new vaccines, antimicrobials and diagnostics.
The Infrastructure Research Group has expertise across structural and geotechnical engineering.
We address research challenges found onshore and offshore, supporting sustainability and resilience.
The Innate Immunity research group conducts interdisciplinary research in the role of innate immune cells in human health and disease.
i-NutriLife is a Diet and Health Open Innovation Research Club (OIRC) Innovation Hub.
OIRC is a network funded by the UK Research and Innovation Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council that promotes collaborations between academia and ...
We bring together researchers with expertise across the themes of health and medicine, living systems, disruptive life technologies, and insights through data.
We have an established reputation for working collaboratively, taking disruptive approache...
We are an interdisciplinary research hub that explores and develops the relationships between criminal justice scholarship, research, policy, and practice.
Researching collaboratively to advance health across the life course through research and innovation in the developmental sciences.
The Institute of Maritime Law is a world leading centre for research, consultancy and training in maritime law, led by Director, Professor Andrea Lista.
Exploiting optical interactions at surfaces for bio/chemical analysis.
Our research is dedicated to exploring the foundations of magnetic resonance, to extending its capabilities, and to finding new ways to apply magnetic resonance methods to the study of materials, life processes, and chemistry
We are a network that brings together local expertise from across the research spectrum within the University and University Hospital Southampton.
Our aim is to increase understanding of dementia and brain ageing and how to treat and care for people...
The University hosts a substantial interdisciplinary community of researchers working to transform musculoskeletal health across the life course.
We are a world-leading team of researchers that adopt novel and innovative approaches to solve problems created when humans exploit aquatic ecosystems.
We develop new information technologies and their use in industry and commerce.
We focus on ways in which this technology can inform areas like secure systems, risk management, cyber security and social media analysis.
We're a collective of critical data researchers challenging the misuse of data in global, social and environmental issues.
Our goal is to create thought-provoking counter-narratives and drive real-world change.
We use multi-proxy environmental data, and model past and present environments to further our understanding of environmental change.
LATU’s mission is to further innovative language assessment and testing research in a multicultural and multimodal world in the digital age and to promote knowledge exchange and dissemination.
We explore the use of lasers to create sensors that can be used by a patient’s bedside to test for an underlying disease or a health condition.
The Law and Technology Centre brings together leading scholars with shared research interests in the intersection of law and technology drawing on the long-standing reputation of Southampton Law School as a vibrant hub in this field.
We bring together colleagues to research the areas of leadership, school improvement, educational effectiveness and policy.
Empowering children and young people through science, to make positive lifestyle choices.
Our research helps us understand how people live with one or multiple long term conditions.
By focusing on what matters to people we can improve their support and wellbeing in the community.
Macroeconomics at Southampton spans a variety of research directions, and emphasises building models of aggregate behaviour by adding up the behaviour of individual economic agents.
The researchers in the group strive to advance the methodology of ma...
Our multidisciplinary research team studies the biogeochemistry of marine systems, both in the open ocean and in shelf seas.
We take on societal and global environmental issues.
Research in our group focuses on understanding the effects of environmental change and human activities on marine ecosystems and biodiversity from the coast to the deep-sea.
We investigate changes at biochemical, cellular, individual and community le...
The Maritime Decarbonisation SIG drives eco-friendly shipping through collaboration and innovation, addressing environmental impact, regulations, and economic opportunities, in response to global challenges.
We aim to explore and understand the dynamic behaviour of engineering systems and structures in a maritime environment.
The modelling group focuses on mathematical modelling across science and engineering, including physics (from the physics of quanta and strings to that of liquid crystals), chemistry (modelling lithium-ion batteries and solar cells), engineering (con...
We have a global reputation for research in the areas of mathematics and science education.
Our research interests include electric machines, microfluidics, ultrasonics, thick-film sensors, and control systems.
Our research aims to support teaching and learning activities and inform the student experience.
Our research provides evidence to support effective management of medicines by patients, carers and health professionals so they are prescribed safely and used by informed patients to manage symptoms and promote health and well-being.
Experts in the design and use of surveys, with particular relationships with official statistics, the use of administrative data sources, longitudinal surveys and modelling with survey data.
We work on topics like patient treatment regimens, catheter design and management, and surgical instrument decontamination.
Microfluidics is the interdisciplinary study of the behaviour, manipulation and application of fluid at the microscale.
It underpins the concept of the lab-on-a-chip, where multiple key components and operations are integrated onto one small platform...
We research how molecular machinery governs cellular life, developing tools to tackle diseases caused when these molecular operations are disrupted.
The MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Centre (Director, Professor Nicholas Harvey) was established in 2021, following reconfiguration from the forerunning MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit.
At the MRC LEC, we study the determinants of musculoskeletal and me...
Our research encompasses both fundamental optical physics as well as the design, fabrication and testing of fibre-based and on-chip devices for a broad range of applications.
Our group carries out frontline research on observational astrophyics.
We study the formation and growth of black holes across the electromagnetic spectrum.
We use lifecourse epidemiological methods to reduce the population burden of common chronic musculoskeletal disease and disability.
Understanding and harnessing light-matter interactions at the nanometre scale.
The University of Southampton is a core partner of NBIC, together with the University of Edinburgh, University of Liverpool, and the University of Nottingham.
We specialise in tribology which is the science of friction, wear and lubrication of surfaces that come in to contact in motion.
The National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM) provides training in research methods.
The centre also produces online learning resources, conducts research and supports methodological innovation.
We work with industry and academia to tackle global challenges relating to infrastructure.
At the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) Wessex, we conduct applied health research with our partners and others in the health and care sector, alongside patients and members of the public.
Applied health research aims to address the immedi...
We aim to address societal, economic, environmental and engineering challenges through effective nature-based ocean solutions.
We research national and global health priorities, from basic neuroscience to age-related neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s disease.
The group researches the next generation of wireless communications systems and their components to transform our communications systems.
This partnership works to increase the evidence base for primary care practice through high quality research and strategic leadership.
The NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre takes new discoveries, treatments and technologies into the clinic, using unique tools, facilities and world-changing expertise.
The NIHR Southampton Clinical Research Facility is an extensive, dedicated space for early-stage clinical research located at Southampton General Hospital.
Nutritional Intervention Preconception and during Pregnancy to maintain healthy glucosE metabolism and offspRing health (NiPPeR)
We provide research space, consultancy, and training in characterisation and remediation technologies for civil nuclear programmes, decommissioning, site clean-up, and new nuclear infrastructure.
We explore the development and optimization of new semiconductor material platforms for application in nonlinear photonics.
Our work draws on elements of materials science, nonlinear waveguide optics, photonic component design and device fabrication.
Our mission is to understand disease processes and to improve lifelong human health and wellbeing through research and innovation in the areas of nutrition, endocrinology and metabolism.
We bring together experts addressing energy challenges from the perspectives of technology, the environment, society, finance, and policy.
Our aim is to unlock the potential of ocean renewable energy.
We are at the intersections of transdisciplinary ocean studies and concepts of global and environmental justice, exploring how to decolonise our engagements with the ocean and understandings of justice.
We develop autonomous robotic, sensing and intelligence capabilities that address bottlenecks in the flow of information between data collection and human insight.
Operational Research (OR) is the discipline of applying advanced analytical methods to help make better decisions.
Led by Professor Peter Smith, our group specialises in the development and manufacture of novel optoelectronic devices for applications in quantum technology, integrated optical sensors and laser optics.
We find new ways to use and apply optical technologies in telecommunications.
Our group develops a variety of innovative optical fibre devices and sensors.
We go from the study of fundamental physics to the development of ruggedised portable units which include electronics/data analysis and are field deployable.
We focus on the synthesis and discovery of novel compounds, the development of sustainable methodologies, and the application of organic chemistry to explore and manipulate biological systems
We study the structure, properties and reactions of organic compounds.
One of our research aims is to develop environmentally sustainable approaches to chemical manufacture that minimise chemical waste.
We aim to improve the health of children and the adults that they will become through innovative research and education.
Humans are now the main cause of climate change on Earth.
We work all around the world to understand how Earth's climate system works naturally.
We use what we learn about past changes in climate, to predict the ways in which Earth will respond to hu...
People, Property, Community (PPC) comprises a collaborative network of legal and other scholars concerned with exploring the broader implications of contemporary property ownership.
We aim to improve the survival, recovery and quality of life of those experiencing surgery or critical illness.
Our group’s research in photonics is helping the development of critical global technologies.
We seek to understand, quantify and predict the physical character of the ocean, and the dynamic processes that control its circulation and mixing.
The Physical Optics Group is led by Professor Peter Kazansky.
Research activities in the group are focused on adventurous and potentially high impact research in optics, quantum and physical electronics.
We specialise in developing novel photonic materials, waveguide devices, and laser systems for application in remote sensing, defence, manufacturing, and metrology.
We study the response of plants to the environment at the molecular, whole plant and ecological levels.
This includes interactions with nematodes, insects and microbes.
We research prevention of disease, reduction of health inequalities and optimisation of health and wellbeing for whole populations across the lifecourse, in the UK and internationally.
Our group combines expertise in population, health and wellbeing with the application of technical excellence in geographic information systems (GIS), spatial analysis, and qualitative, participatory methods.
Our data-led virtual modelling systems are helping to solve some of the world's most challenging issues around food security, climate change, anti-microbial resistance, healthy ageing and disease.
We focus on behavioural research across a wide range of conditions and populations.
We aim to improve health-related outcomes at individual, community and population level.
We are an internationally renowned centre of excellence known for conducting high-quality research to improve people’s lives.
We inform and enhance evidence based primary health care in the UK and around the world.
We bring together a critical mass of clinical and non-clinical researchers to explore important mental health problems.
Get involved with medical research in Southampton.
Public Opinion Research Southampton (PORS) researches and teaches substantive and methodological problems in public opinion.
We develop high-quality modules for our degrees, organise internal workshops, host external speakers, publish in academic jou...
We specialise in developing pulsed laser technology for use in medicine, defence, renewable energy, and manufacturing.
We work with researchers around the world to contribute to research in algebra, analysis, geometry and topology.
We explore the ultimate limits of light-matter interaction in nanophotonic devices, aiming to unlock the potential for advancements in quantum material engineering and high-precision sensing.
Our research group examines the connections between physics, chemistry and engineering.
Our research covers respiratory conditions such as asthma, rhinitis, COPD, primary ciliary dyskinesia, and cystic fibrosis.
We research the processing, perception and control of complex signals.
We conduct fundamental and applied research in the field of optical fibre technology covering materials science, new fibre designs and fabrication techniques required for high-power lasers, generation of new wavelengths, sensing, and telecommunicatio...
The group works at the forefront of all aspects of silicon photonics.
Our work ranges from fundamental study of devices and circuits to close collaboration with industry.
Our research explores skin health and comfort using sensing technologies.
We improve medical devices and wearable products to increase quality of life, patient safety and health outcomes.
Our interests range from nano-scale biological sensors to complete sensor systems.
Our research vision is to revolutionise manufacturing in the digital era by developing the next generation of reconfigurable, scalable, resilient, power efficient, disruptive ‘smart’ fibre laser tools for the demanding medical and biosciences sectors...
Inspiring the next generation of engineers, designers and business leaders to support the sustainable growth and regeneration of UK manufacturing.
SoCRATES aims to bring together PhD students and researchers interested learning about and using novel cell culture methodologies.
SoCRATES was established as part of the Advanced cell culture programme for the NiHR's Biomedical Research Centre's res...
Our group explores the intersection of medicine, healthcare practices and the human experience through the lens of the humanities.
We provide a platform for teaching innovations, public engagement, research collaborations and grant applications.
We highlight research on the ‘long 19th century’ (1789-1917) carried out by our members across several faculties and a wide range of disciplines.
SoCATS helps to identify aspiring clinical academics and supports them in their training as they work towards becoming the research leaders of the future.
We deliver world-leading clinical trials of innovative new treatments and diagnostic tools.
Our trials directly influence routine clinical practice for the benefit of patients.
We aim to build on existing interdisciplinary ethics teaching, and to nurture interdisciplinary research and outreach.
We create data to show you as a business leader or public servant what's happening at any location you work in.
Whether you want to know when potential customers will come, or if your decisions are improving a local environment, we can help.
We aim to produce evidence to help allocate resources in a way that promotes health and effective health care.
We are a leading centre for health technology assessment and health services research in the UK.
Our expertise in evidence synthesis, health economics and information science informs timely policy decisions on the use of new healthcare technology and...
We explore the underlying theories of particle physics from collider phenomenology to string theory and from lattice quantum chromodynamics (QCD) to beyond the Standard Model physics and cosmology.
Imaging has become an essential part of scientific research, from biomedical sciences to engineering to optoelectronics.
SIAH places culture at the heart of world-changing research.
We work across subjects to support socially engaged, creative and critical work.
We work with partner organisations to tackle global marine and maritime challenges.
From developing green technologies to influencing government policy, our experts from across the University are improving quality of life and the environment.
We offer a full range of software development services, covering many different technologies and all academic disciplines.
The Southampton Theory, Astrophysics and Gravity (STAG) Research Centre brings together different research groups with world-leading expertise on issues relating to fundamental physics and astronomy.
We study the interaction between the Sun and the magnetospheres and upper atmospheres of Earth, Saturn and Jupiter.
We develop and apply state-of-the-art tools and methods to provide chemical and structural insights into materials, biological and environmental systems
We're one of the largest groups of university statisticians in the UK researching statistics and demography methodologies.
Whether it's improving the accuracy of census data or helping predict levels of air pollution, our work guides policymakers aro...
As part of the Southampton statistical sciences research institute (S3RI) we carry out research in methodology and substantive applications.
Founded in 2018, the Centre explores structural, societal, legal and regulatory issues associated with gender discrimination, raises awareness, investigates the causes and seeks better solutions.
The group works on all aspects of fundamental physics - string theory; quantum field theory; applications to gravity, black holes, cosmology, particle physics, condensed matter and quantum information.
Our research focus and activities are in the fields of operations, supply chain, and their relevant disciplines.
The Sustainability and Materials group uses emerging chemical technologies to address world challenges in catalysis, clean energy, carbon capture, and healthcare diagnostics.
We bring together colleagues from across the University, and work with experts from around the world to answer one of the most pressing questions of our time: “How will we choose to manage our planet for ourselves and future generations?”
Our group explores how to improve renewable energy sources and create more efficient electronic device technology to benefit the environment.
Empowering Knowledge | Inspiring Innovation | Accelerating Impact

Established in March 2019, the University India Centre serves as a living bridge connecting world-leading scientists, policy experts, and stakeholders from Southampton and India to ...
We research, teach and raise awareness of relations between Jews and non-Jews, from antiquity to the present day.
Our aims are to promote interfaith dialogue and fight against prejudice and antisemitism.
We are a world-leading research centre for dielectric materials, insulation systems, high voltage phenomena and renewables integration that innovates the way forward towards a sustainable electric grid.
Our research focuses on the interactions between behaviour, infrastructure and operations and how they translate into transport policy and practice.
We take a wholistic approach to researching the tumour microenvironment.
Bringing together expertise, we aim to make a positive impact on the lives of patients with cancer.
We empower and train the next generation of researchers, engineers and technologists to develop and deliver a more sustainable future using AI.
Our group uses high-intensity femtosecond lasers to generate very short (attosecond) pulses of coherent extreme ultraviolet (XUV) and soft X-ray radiation.
This radiation can be used for imaging and spectroscopy at very small dimensions (<50nm) and a...
Our research explores the adverse impacts of musculoskeletal problems in the workplace.
We aim to improve the lives of workers, patients and employers by informing policy and practice.
Vision Science works with other research institutions to increase the potential of a cure, or improve treatment, for age-related macular degeneration and other blinding eye diseases.
Our group explores the theory behind technological areas including control, machine learning and computer vision.
We are a multidisciplinary team of academics, research staff and postgraduates who try to improve the world we live in through engineering solutions.
The Web and Internet Science (WAIS) group at the University of Southampton researches large-scale systems that combine computational, data and human components.
We're part of the School of Electronics and Computer Science (ECS).
We bring together the university’s world-class, interdisciplinary, socio-technical expertise in web science, data science and artificial intelligence to leverage the unique role of online technologies in tackling global challenges.
we are a network of academic and service partners across the region working together towards improving the public’s health and wellbeing as well as narrowing health inequalities.
We are an interdisciplinary research and enterprise hub tackling some of the most pressing challenges facing the world of paid and unpaid work.
Regularly updating data on population numbers and characteristics to help with effective governance and efficient allocation of resources.
We specialise in digital, media, technology, marketing, fashion, design, and art.
We enable collaboration between academic staff, research users, and broader communities to transform society for the better.
The Zepler Cleanrooms Complex is a state-of-science centre which includes a variety of facilities and laboratories for materials and device research in electronics, photonics and nanotechnology, with both planar wafer and optical fibre capabilities s...

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/researcher-support.page:
At Southampton, we provide support for our research community to thrive, enabling world-leading research and creating an environment where everyone feels welcomed, supported and valued.
Our dedicated support services help our research community navigate the complete research life-cycle and develop the skills they need to join the next generation of research leaders.
The Associate Vice President of Interdisciplinary Research leads a programme that fosters and supports developing ideas from our academic community.
These include:
A sandpit is an interactive workshop that helps form new research teams and encourages risk-accepting projects to address big research challenges.
Our sandpits provide a creative platform for new interdisciplinary teams to devise a pilot project during the workshop and submit a bid for pump-priming funds shortly afterwards.
They help us create interdisciplinary research communities in targeted areas to tackle major societal issues.
We host two sandpits each year, on topics from ‘Narrative and Storytelling’ to ‘Resilient Society’.
Each year, we announce a call for pump-priming funds to encourage new interdisciplinary research at the University.
Our Research and Innovation Services team help and support our researchers across a number of areas:
CHEP promotes academic professional learning for every member of University staff, in all areas of academic activity and at every stage of their career.
Our Research & KEE team works in partnership with faculties and specialist teams from professional services to design and deliver professional development programme for staff engaged in research, knowledge exchange, and enterprise across the University.
Our Researcher Development Hub​​​​​ provides an overview of central learning resources, training, and support programmes available across the University.
​It highlights key information, contacts and training opportunities, and provides insight into the wider scope of the knowledge and skills required to build your career in research, knowledge exchange and enterprise.
The CHEP KEE Development Hub offers introductory information, case studies, signposting and resources helping clarify the field of Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise.
The University is committed to continuing professional development (CPD) and supports mentoring as part of this.
There are a number of central resources available around the topic of mentoring.
Our Professional Development Mentoring site includes a range of resources around mentoring, including an overview of the process, the different responsibilities within the relationship and some pointers on how to get started.
Email the Leadership and Management Development team for more information.
Our Doctoral College is the hub of the University's vibrant and inspiring doctoral research community.
It is the focal point for doctoral training and researcher development, supporting our postgraduate researchers through:
The Library provides support for all researchers in the following areas:
Pure is the leading research information system used by the University of Southampton to disseminate our research activity.
Pure performs strategic decision-making, supports the management of the University’s research performance and enables the expertise of researchers and departments to be more easily discovered.
The reporting capabilities in Pure will help to ensure Open Access compliance and the eligibility of outputs for the next Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Pure is intuitive to use but a range of support is already available, including Library and Faculty-based experts and online user-guides which can be accessed via the Pure web pages.
The Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) exists to inspire and support high quality public engagement with research across all disciplines at the University of Southampton.
Public Policy|Southampton (PPS) is the University of Southampton's dedicated unit to help researchers connect with policymakers on a local, sub-national, national and international level.
The three main pillars of PPS activities include:
Capacity-building We organise training on key policy-related skills, such as embedding impact into research, engaging with Parliament and Government, writing policy briefs and using DataViz tools to influence policy.
Find out more about our events .
Planning for Policy Impact We advise academics on their impact strategy and support them to develop evidence-to-policy activities.
Find out more about Research Project Support .
Building external relationships We have a network of contacts across Westminster, Whitehall and local Government and use these contacts to build new relationships between researchers and policymakers.
Find out about ways to engage .
The University of Southampton is proud to be working with UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) on a number of Research Council Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAA's).
IAA funding provides a platform to discover, stimulate and grow our impact and Knowledge Exchange opportunities.
It helps to ensure effective translation of our research and enables greater collaboration with users and stakeholders to inform the direction of our research, innovation and education.
By deploying IAA funding in a variety of activities, we aim to foster and support innovation, build skills and capacity, and drive impactful change.
Please visit the individual funder pages for further information on opportunities that are currently available at the University of Southampton.
Explore highlights of our world-leading research
Discover the innovative research projects taking place at Southampton
Find out about funding support for postgraduate studies

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/interdisciplinary:
Tackling global concerns, from climate change to healthy ageing, needs a multifaceted approach.
Interdisciplinary working lets us do this.
Ideas and creativity bridge disciplinary boundaries to bring together teams and experts from different fields.
Our interdisciplinary institutes foster inspiring and innovative solutions to help solve our world's greatest challenges.
The backbone of our interdisciplinary network
Regular workshops help interdisciplinary teams pilot new ideas
Regular project call-outs offer early-stage funding
Interdisciplinary expertise and guidance whenever you need it
At Southampton, we encourage and support interdisciplinary research in all areas of our academic community.
Our institutes are the super connectors that bring together world-renowned teams and experts.
Delve into examples of our interdisciplinary approach with highlight stories.
Learn about the real-world impact of our work, and the people behind the research.
Academics collaborate to create a series of news based cryptocurrency using a big data approach.
Blight to boon: encroaching seaweed.
Researchers predict when and where the sea will dump vast amounts of sargassum – and find good ways to use it.
A new rapid laser-based test that could diagnose different types of dementia in just minutes has been developed by Southampton researchers.
Researchers from Southampton have coordinated sea trials of a 20-metre high wing-sail that could be fitted to large cargo vessels, cutting carbon emissions by a third.
Working across disciplines, collaboratively, is firmly rooted in our ethos for all our institutes, centres and groups .
It helps us understand global challenges, facilitate social action and innovate in fields like artificial intelligence.
Our research culture fosters interdisciplinary collaboration inside and outside our institutes, and through our tailored research support.
This includes creative workshops to help new interdisciplinary teams set up pilots, support for early-stage projects and dedicated surgeries to discuss interdisciplinary work.
Associate Vice Presidents (Interdisciplinary Research), Professors Rebecca Hoyle and John Holloway, champion our work.
Become part of our community and tackle some of the world's most complex societal and environmental challenges.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/people:
Email: A.E.Kaplan@soton.ac.uk
Email: a.celik@soton.ac.uk
Accepting applications from PhD students
Email: amr3@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2908
Email: A.E.Smith@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.Refaat@soton.ac.uk
Email: Abigail.Mitchell@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.H.Yakubu@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.B.Afzal@soton.ac.uk
Email: aa1r21@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.A.D.Alshehri@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7307104230

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation:
Make a step change in your business by working with our researchers, industry experts and business mentors.
Our Research and Innovation Services team can help you find solutions to your business challenges.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/start-up-support:
Our business support services are targeted at science and technology companies.
As a founding member of enterprise partnership, SETsquared, we can help you protect your ideas, market products and attract investment.
by our Catalyst incubator programme at the Science Park
Source: Financial Times 2024
for companies supported by SETsquared
Every new enterprise is different, so we design a package of business and investment support to meet your needs.
This can include:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/invest-start-ups:
Help make our research accessible to industry by investing in a new spinout venture.
The Research and Innovation Services (RIS) team support our academics and research students to bring their innovations to market.
formed by University since 2000
equity investment raised for spinout ventures 2023/24
in our active pipeline
Some of our spinout companies are looking for investors.
Get in touch to find out more about these and other opportunities.
We have helped to set up many new companies.
Four of them have gone on to float on the London Stock Exchange.
These are just some of our latest spinout companies.
If you want to learn more about our track record consult our A to Z list of spinout companies.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/research-partner:
With over 30 years of working with companies, innovative start-ups, charities, and public sector bodies, we can support your innovation and growth objectives through partnership.
Lloyd's Register, ONS, Airbus, IBM and Microsoft.
Through partnerships with industry, government, and other organisations we aim to improve productivity, economic growth and sustainability.
Our research partnerships combine academic expertise with market-driven industry insight.
Through these collaborations, we solve complex problems and develop pioneering products.
We'll meet with you to discuss your ambitions and design solutions which could include:
We work with business and industry in a wide range of ways from a one-off research and development project to a longer term collaboration.
We also have several major programmes of research, and where our interests align, there may be potential for partnership.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/license-technology:
We manage over 350 patent families.
We also licence a variety of software, online resources, trademarks and plant breeders’ rights.
Our team of technology transfer managers will match your areas of interest with the University’s intellectual property (IP) portfolio and academic experts.
If you find something of commercial interest, we will work with you to develop a mutually beneficial licensing agreement.
We specialise in:
We have many long-standing collaboration partners who recognise the commercial benefits of working with our IP.
Benefits include:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
Join forces with the University on a strategic innovation project.
Use government funding to access our expertise to take your ideas forward.
Enter new markets, develop new products, increase productivity and improve processes
Access our knowledge, facilities and resources
Embed expertise, achieve your ambitions and expand capability
A KTP is a 3-way project collaboration between a business or not for profit organisation, a university and a graduate.
It's an opportunity to find solutions to business-critical challenges.
By partnering with the University of Southampton, you'll:
KTPs often lead to profitable long-term relationships with the University of Southampton.
Watch some of our partners discuss their experiences of working with us.
The KTP programme is run by Innovate UK .
You'll work with us to apply to them for funding for your project.
Businesses and not-for-profit organisations contribute financially over the course of the project.
Projects usually last between 12 months and 3 years.
Contributions are as follows:
The contributions are spread at regular intervals throughout the project.
You do not need to make a pre-project payment.
A wide range of organisations can apply for a KTP.
This includes research and technology organisations and charities.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/academic-consultants:
We have expertise in a wide range of areas with dedicated staff providing research consultancy services.
We have a team of collaboration managers who can discuss your requirements and find the expertise you need.
Our areas of research are wide-ranging, including biomedicine, environmental sciences, web development and surface engineering.
We provide consultancy through experienced academics, research institutes and specialist consultancies.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/specialist-consultancies:
Our areas of research and industry expertise include biomedicine, environmental sciences, web development and surface engineering.
Each of our specialist consultancy units has experienced staff who provide research consulting, training and testing to businesses.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/research-studentships:
Bring a postgraduate student into your business and access innovative research taking place at the University of Southampton.
Many of our PhD students work closely with business partners through placements, projects and sponsorships.
These studentships provide companies with access to knowledge and skills from a wide range of academic disciplines.
The advantages of a PhD studentship include:
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) fund studentships through specific schemes.
Doctoral Training Partnerships are one example of the types of postgraduate schemes available.
Our Doctoral College brings together our postgraduate research community.
Most of our research studentships include opportunities to use our facilities as well as access to research through knowledge transfer initiatives.
You can also work with our academics to define a research studentship project that meets your needs.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-workforce:
We'll work with you to develop the skills and expertise your organisation needs through employee development and staff training.
Our talented graduates and placement students can bring fresh ideas and knowledge to your business.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/short-courses/cpd:
Our range of CPD courses and modules will help you progress your career.
And they're a great way to engage with the latest thinking in your sector.
You'll learn directly from our academic lecturers, researchers and practitioners.
Explore our professional development courses.
Many of our departments offer CPD training, from the executive education programmes run by the Southampton Business School to the official statistics short courses taught by the Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute.
All of o ur courses are regulated in England by the Office for Students (OfS).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-workforce/staff-secondments:
Business secondments provide an opportunity to acquire new skills and experience in a different environment.
We will work with you to set up a secondment that meets your organisation's needs.
Our flexible secondments:
Secondments provide opportunities for:
Host a member of our academic and research staff within your organisation.
Institutional funding from UKRI means we can support staff to work with you on a project and share knowledge and expertise.
We can also arrange an outbound secondment through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
An inbound secondment is a great way for your employees to widen their experience by working at the University.
From time-to-time we require specific skills or abilities to fulfil a particular role or project.
We offer these fixed-term positions as secondments.
As a secondee you'll have visitor access to a wide range of University services and facilities.
You'll also be covered by our visitor policies and guidance.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/careers/employers/placements/year-in-employment.page:
Year in Employment Placements are an opportunity for organisations to attract our high-calibre students for a placement of up to 12 months as part of their degree.
We seek placements from all business sectors and sizes.
Whether you’re a small start-up looking to hire your first placement student or an experienced recruiter looking to fill numerous roles, we have the expertise to support you throughout the placement process.
You can also read our Placement Provider Handbook for further information on hosting a placement student.
Appointing a placement student from the University of Southampton will provide your organisation with benefits such as:
If you are interested in hosting a Year in Employment student, please contact the Employer Engagement Team at employ@southampton.ac.uk or book a meeting .
Placements should provide students with meaningful projects that reflect the employer's business needs, with a range of responsibilities.
We also ask that during the placement you consider the following:
It was a learning experience for both the student and us, as placement programmes should be - a win win situation for all.
Our student was brilliant, proactive and full of positive drive.
For a placement to be eligible for the Year in Employment, it must:
We can support you before, during and after the placement in numerous ways including:
The placement timeline will vary depending on your organisation.
We highly recommend advertising Year in Employment opportunities as early as possible during the Autumn term (September to December) to ensure your advert reaches as many prospective candidates as possible.
It is, however, still possible to advertise later in the academic year.
Employers can choose how they shortlist and select their placement student, and this process will vary per organisation.
The recruitment process could include application forms, online tests, video interviews, assessment centres and final interviews.
We would recommend securing a placement student by March to avoid running your recruitment during revision periods and the Easter break.
Placements start during Summer, typically between June and September and last for up to 12 months.
For example, if a placement student started with you in July, they could work until the following July and return to their full-time studies in September/October.
If you would like to discuss Year in Employment Placements in more detail, then please contact us:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/careers/employers/placements/student-innovation-projects.page:
Is your organisation facing a commercial challenge, or a business issue?
Do you want to see what recommendations our students can come up with?
Student Innovation Projects offer students the opportunity to work with an employer on a brief and have a real impact on their business need.
Our students have researched and presented recommendations to many companies on diverse topics, such as:
Student Innovation Projects enable businesses to collaborate with our students, receiving fresh perspectives and inspiring solutions to overcome their challenges:
Once the project begins, your involvement will be as follows:
To apply for a Student Innovation Project, we require the following:
You can submit applications to employ@southampton.ac.uk .
Please note, we accept applications throughout the Autumn and Spring term.
For further information on Student Innovation Projects, please refer to our Student Innovation Project Client Handbook and example briefs from previous employers:
If you would like to discuss our Student Innovation Projects in more detail, then please contact us:
The presentations were slick, well communicated and exciting.
Far beyond what I was expecting.
I came out feeling inspired by what I had heard and I would hire any one of them.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/careers/employers/advertise-your-vacancies.page:
We invite employers and organisations to promote their opportunities via MyCareer .
We can advertise the following types of vacancy for you:
Please note:
Our MyCareer Privacy Notice outlines how we collect and process your data when you access MyCareer as an employer.
If you experience problems using MyCareer, please contact us via employ@southampton.ac.uk or on 023 8059 3501.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/finance/services/General-information-for-suppliers.page:
This page contains general information relevant to current and prospective suppliers to the university, information is regularly updated so please look for updates.
If after reviewing the pages you can’t find the information you require, please contact us .
The University is no longer a 'contracting authority' for the purposes of the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 or the Procurement Regulations 2024.
In certain circumstances, the University at its sole discretion may voluntarily undertake some procurement exercises in accordance with procurement legislation.
The procedure that we wish to follow for any individual procurement will be explained in the relevant tender documentation.
The University works with a whole range of suppliers to deliver an excellent research and teaching environment.
We must comply with all internal financial processes and regulations.
The Procurement team maintains a contracts register of the agreements and associated suppliers that have either successfully been awarded tenders, or are on framework agreements for supply of goods or services such as stationery, travel, furniture, laboratory equipment and supplies etc.
University staff and students are required to utilise University contracts where applicable.
Visit the Working with the University page to find out more about our procurement processes and working with us.
We engage suppliers using University of Southampton terms and conditions, the standard terms and conditions of purchase are available to view here .
Where alternative terms and conditions are required due to the specialist nature of a requirements (for example the supply of services, or works) the terms and conditions are contained as part of the Invitation to Tender procurement documentation.
All suppliers must have appropriate contractor insurance, required levels and details will be specified within the procurement documentation.
The University of Southampton Supplier Code of Conduct sets out our expectations of the standards and practices we expect from our suppliers, their employees, and supply chain when providing goods, works, or services to the University.
We also have a range of policies that our suppliers must be aware of and that we and they must comply with – these can be found on the University’s Governance pages .
The University operates a ‘No PO, No pay’ policy, please do not accept requests for goods or services without provision of an official Purchase Order.
Suppliers should ensure that they have been given an official University Purchase Order (PO) before supplying goods or services.
This PO number must be shown on all invoices – without it, we will be unable to pay your invoice.
The University aims to pay all its suppliers for approved invoices within 30 days of receipt.
Invoices will be treated as valid and undisputed where:
Invoices should be emailed to: invoices@soton.ac.uk PDF, JPEG or TIF formats are preferred.
Please send each invoice as an individual attachment (do not combine multiple invoices into a single attachment).
The University of Southampton cannot accept consolidated invoices due to system constraints.
Invoices cannot be settled against multiple Purchase Order numbers.
PLEASE NOTE : The University has been made aware of a fraud scam that is targeting existing and potential suppliers of equipment to the University of Southampton.
Further information and guidance is available on the fraudulent emails and purchase orders page.
In the first instance please contact Accounts Payable at accpay@soton.ac.uk .
Please note our standard payment terms are 30 days.
HMRC guidance states that invoices must also include the following information as a minimum:
Full HMRC guidance for invoicing and taking payments from customers is available on the GOV.UK website .
If you are an individual or small organisation and you don't have a suitable format for your invoice, then you may find this invoice template useful:
Invoice template
Notification of any changes to suppliers’ details, such as a change of address or bank details must be provided in writing and emailed to supsetup@soton.ac.uk .
The University will not be able to amend your record without this written notification and, depending on the amendment may require further information, such as proof of address documentation before any changes can be made.
The University is responsible for ensuring that individuals working with us through their own limited company (known as a personal service company or PSC) pay the right amount of tax and NI.
This means that if you are a supplier who falls into this category, we will need to use a digital tool provided by HMRC to assess your status in relation to this legislation before you start working with us.
This may affect the way in which we engage you to provide us with goods and services.
If you are a personal service company and believe you are affected by the IR35 rules, please notify your contact at the University before commencing delivery of services.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/international:
Clearing is your chance to secure an undergraduate place this year – even if your plans change.
We are a global top 100 university (QS World University Rankings 2026) with a community of over 10,000 international students from 130 different countries.
When you join us you'll find a warm welcome and experienced support.
Build a picture of life on campus and in our university cities with this selection of images from our Instagram accounts.
Use the icons to follow us on any of our channels.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/global-connections/visiting-delegation.page:
We welcome visiting delegations from across the globe – including industry partners, research institutions, government bodies and staff from other leading universities.
These visits are an important opportunity for us to strengthen our international partnerships and promote our mission to change the world for the better.
We aim to ensure that all visits uphold our reputation for excellence and reflect our core values of collegiality, quality and sustainability, as outlined in the University strategy .
If you are interested in visiting the University as part of a delegation, please complete the International Visits Enquiry Form, giving us at least four weeks' notice.
We ask that you arrange to visit during the academic year, when academic and administrative staff are more likely to be available.
Visits are not possible during university closure days.
Please see our full list of key dates for more information.
Travel information and campus maps can be found on the getting to our campuses page.
There are several ways for prospective students to visit us , including Open Days, Postgraduate Open Days and Undergraduate Applicant Visit Days.
You can also explore our campuses, facilities and accommodation through our Virtual Open Day .
As a leading global university, we have forged strong and mutually beneficial relationships with many of the Commonwealth's 53 countries.
Take a look at our interactive map showing our many academic and business partnerships with countries across the globe, including most Commonwealth countries.
More than 96% of our research has been assessed as world-leading and internationally excellent.
Find out how are we are using it to help make a better world.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/global-connections/international-office-team.page:
We travel overseas to meet prospective students and alumni, visit foreign schools and universities, keep in contact with foreign embassies in the UK and make sure that our international students enjoy their studies and life whilst they are in Southampton.
We can also advise current students who would like to participate in any of our exchange programmes with overseas institutions.
Learn more below about the International Office Team and how to contact them.
Are you an overseas visitor interested in studying with us?
Find out more about our courses, entry requirements and support for international students in our university life section.
For all general enquiries about the University of Southampton's partnerships, funding, events and international student recruitment please contact the International Office.
Email us at international@southampton.ac.uk Telephone us at +44 (0) 23 8059 2772 (08.00-17.00 GMT, Monday-Friday)
Amanda Procter Director of Global Recruitment and Admissions
Amanda Hall Deputy Director of Global Recruitment and Admissions
Melissa Gibson (Emma Schlesinger covering until November 2025) Regional Head of International Recruitment and Partnerships
Rami Al-Mousa International Recruitment Manager Responsible for Middle Eastern countries
Nadia Gabr International Recruitment Manager Responsible for Africa
Elodie Sprenger International Recruitment Manager Responsible for UK International
Ada Kelechi-Ahuche International Partnerships Manager Responsible for Africa and Middle East
Tom Quante Regional Head of International Recruitment and Partnerships
Joshua Koster International Recruitment Manager Responsible for Europe
Zoe Yao Regional Head of International Recruitment and Partnerships
Tiefu Zhao Senior International Recruitment & Marketing Manager Responsible for East Asia (based in China)
Winnie NG International Recruitment Manager (based in Hong Kong SAR)
Sharon Sun Senior International Recruitment Officer (based in China)
Manbo Ouyang International Recruitment Officer (based in China)
Kacy Deng Digital Marketing Officer (based in China)
Donna Haynes Regional Head of International Recruitment and Partnerships
Jason Ong Jit Sim International Recruitment Manager Responsible for Southeast Asia (based in Malaysia)
Ruth Law International Recruitment Manager
Mark O’Keeffe Associate Director, International
Nadeem Ansari International Recruitment Manager Responsible for South Asia (based in India)
Sejal Gandhi International Recruitment Manager Responsible for South Asia (based in India)
Zoe Brent Agent Compliance Manager
Amy Buxton International Partnerships Administrator
Lauren Tancock Head of International Office Operations
Kim Fernandez International Project Coordinator
Julia Furse GRA Operations Manager
Kieron Benstead GRA Senior Administrator
Nadine Nowe-Andrews GRA Administrator
Izzy Holley GRA Administrator Graadmin@soton.ac.uk
Sarah Morss International Relations and Scholarships Manager
Dina Johnson-Perkins International Scholarship Coordinator
Fatima Zahra Ahmed Sid International Scholarships Administrator
International-scholarships@soton.ac.uk partnerships@southampton.ac.uk
Gemma Roberts Head of Global Mobility
Chloe Chloe Meckaniuk Study Abroad and Exchange Manager
Sam Woolway Summer School Manager
Daisy Lauren-Sherburn Study Abroad and Exchange Coordinator
Katie Ingram Study Abroad and Exchange Administrator
erasmus@southampton.ac.uk
studyabroad@southampton.ac.uk
Find out more about studying abroad and exchanges .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/global-connections/visiting-fellowships.page:
At the University of Southampton we have been proud to welcome many international visiting researchers throughout the University's history.
Our visitors enrich the intellectual landscape on campus for staff and students, and as a result of these collaborations the University has forged links with partner institutions globally.
Launching in 2018 this prestigious University Fellowship Award aims to attract the highest calibre academics from our priority partners to collaborate with University of Southampton staff.
This award replaces the former Diamond Jubilee International Visiting Fellowships.
Each Fellowship is offered for a three year period to support the development of a collaborative partnership between the Fellow and their University of Southampton host member of staff.
Funding is available to support a range of activities that promote research collaboration between individuals and groups at both institutions.
During their Fellowship tenure each Fellow will spend a minimum of one month at the University of Southampton.
Future application deadlines, application form and guidance are available here .
All Fellowship candidates must be nominated by a member of University of Southampton staff.
In 2019-20 one new Fellow was appointed.
Research collaborations include subject areas from seven Faculties and link to institutions in Australia, ‎Canada, Finland, France, Greece, Hong Kong, Japan, Russia, South Africa and the USA.
See below for details of individual Fellows, their hosts and the Fellowship activities to date.‎
For further information about the Visiting Fellowship scheme or our other research funding opportunities please contact us at partnerships@southampton.ac.uk
Dr Douglas Allan
University of British Columbia Cellular and Physiological Sciences
Professor Catherine Backman
University of British Columbia Occupational Science & Occupational Therapy
Professor Omer Blaes
The University of New South Wales Faculty of Science Fellowship activities
Professor Alexej Jerschow
University of Minnesota Dept of Electrical and Computer Engineering Fellowship activities
University of Texas at Dallas Dept of Biomedical Engineering Fellowship activities
Professor Diana Eccles Cancer Sciences, Medicine
Professor Antonio Ribeiro
Professor Myron Christodoulides Medicine
Berkeley Dept of Mechanical Engineering Fellowship activities
The University of New South Wales Behavioural Sciences Unit, Kids Cancer Centre Fellowship activities
Dr Blair Thornton Engineering and Physical Sciences
Dr Jessica Teeling Biological Sciences

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/global-connections/global-partnerships-map.page:
The University of Southampton is a partner of choice for many global leading higher education, industry, government and funding institutions.
Through our partners our students and staff have global reach and impact influencing opinion formers and policy makers, carrying out innovative and world leading research, gaining valuable international experience and accessing sustainable sources of funding.
The University of Southampton's international partnerships are guided by our International Strategy .
We seek to partner with like-minded institutions who are supportive of diversity, inclusion and exploration.
Our approach is drawn from our history as a port city, being a major gateway for the United Kingdom into the world and for the world into the United Kingdom – as a truly comprehensive university connecting across the oceans in art & culture and science & engineering.​​​​​​​
Southampton strongly supports ensuring our students have an international experience.
We understand the value international students bring to our campus and are proud of our multicultural student community.
International Relations provides support in setting up international educational agreements across the university including general Memorandums of Understanding, Study Abroad, Exchange and Admissions agreements.
As a research-intensive university we have collaborated with nearly 7000 institutions since 2010 producing over 38,000 co-publications.
Discover more about some of our partnerships and the positive impacts they are having on teaching, research, funding and graduate employability.
We are now looking forward to future collaborations with new partners, striving to provide new opportunities for all our students.
There are various active faculty-wide academic collaborations and exchanges of visiting staff and students and an active university-wide exchange agreement with UOA.
UCSD is a significant priority partner for Southampton and a fellow member of the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils.
The impact of research at CUHK can be demonstrated from its State Key Laboratories, Areas of Excellence research projects, and Research Institutes.
The University of Ghana is a fellow member of WUN and a priority partner for Southampton in Africa.
We have a long-standing co-funded Staff Exchange Programme and a healthy exchange of students with the University of Hamburg every year.
UoS has strong research collaboration in many areas of engineering and physical science for decades.
LKI is Sri Lanka's primary independent international relations think tank with whom Southampton signed an MoU in 2018.
We have an active student exchange agreement with Music, Philosophy and Languages.
There is broad research collaboration including in Medicine, with medical student exchanges.
A fellow member of ACU, NTU has several research connections with Southampton, including the development of cybersecurity solutions.
We have long had research and education connections with NMU, particularly in Environmental and Life Science.
Founded in 2009 and ranking in the top 60 universities in India, JGU is a partner university with ongoing Progression and Study Abroad agreements in Social Science.
Southampton and TISS signed an MoU in 2016.
The University of Tripoli has been among our priority partners for some time and is the largest research led university in Libya.
USMA is the oldest of five U.S.
service academies and provides Batchelor of Science degrees for officers-in-training.
As one of the top universities in China, Xiamen University has been one of Southampton’s most strategically important international partners.
Being a world-class university means attracting the highest quality students, academics and collaborative partners.
Increasingly that’s measured internationally rather than just within one’s home country.
Discover how our expertise and resources could help your business.
Learn more about our partnerships with many of the Commonwealth's 53 countries.
Find out how our academic expertise is helping to change the world for the better.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/sport-gyms:
Your physical and mental wellbeing are really important to us.
That's why we offer lots of ways to get active during your studies.
Here's some information about the university sports, clubs and gyms on offer at Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/changing-lives-how-southampton-sparked-a-passion-for-a-future-career:
She discovered the BSc Audiology by chance at a Southampton open day and has never looked back.
Now she is committed to sharing that passion with potential students.
Isabel knew she wanted to pursue a career that involved human interaction and used her A-Level science skills, but she didn’t want to do a straight biology degree.
At a Southampton open day, she literally bumped into the audiology stand, got speaking to staff and her enthusiasm for audiology began.
“Audiology is an amazing, constantly evolving and changing career.
Without their hearing, people can become really disconnected, so they start to avoid doing things, becoming very isolated and increasing their risk of things like depression or dementia,” she says.
“As audiologists, we rehabilitate individuals to hear better and make lifestyle changes through supporting informed decision-making, and this can have a massive life impact and significantly improve their quality of life.
Audiology at Southampton has a small intake and a lot of the lecturers have been there for a long time or trained there, so it has a real community feel to it.
She says: “Southampton ranks really well in the league tables and employability after graduation is very good.
There is also a well-equipped dedicated skills lab.”
One of the biggest draws for Isabel on the BSc Audiology was the long placement Southampton organised at the beginning of the  third year.
She spent seven months as a student audiologist at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading, one of the largest audiology departments in the country.
“I was trained by some amazing people who gave me real-life experience and the competency to work as an audiologist.
The University does a great job preparing you for the real world and the placement give you the practical experience.
It ensured that I was proficient in all clinical skills and capable of working in a professional environment.
By the end of my placement, I was leading appointments,” she says.
The placement also helped her develop a network of highly trained, knowledgeable contacts that will be useful to her in her future career.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/highlights/autonomous-ships-tackle-the-high-seas-climate-change:
Transport is among the biggest drivers of climate change, sliding in just behind the fossil fuel industry and agriculture as one of the largest emitters of carbon dioxide.
It is responsible for around 20% of global emissions each year, and it’s not just aviation and road transport that are at fault – shipping is a major problem too.
What if we could cut down the destructive impact of shipping just by redesigning boats?
At the University of Southampton, researchers are testing out a new generation of uncrewed vessels that could rapidly decarbonise the marine industry worldwide.
At 138m long and 3.5m deep and producing a huge swell, the University’s Towing Tank is at the cutting edge of climate research.
It helps scientists such as Dr Martyn Prince and Dr Dominic Taunton to really understand what happens to vessels at sea when they face the most dangerous conditions.
“Essentially, it’s a large swimming pool with what looks like a train track running over the top,” Martyn, the Wolfson Unit’s Principal Research Engineer explains.
“We can take scale models through the water in various sea states to look at what would happen.”
Martyn and Dominic lead the interdisciplinary team for this research.
The team includes academics from the Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute , working alongside designers from our partner company, ACUA Ocean.
They are testing the potential for hydrogen-powered, uncrewed vessels that could transform the maritime industry.
Those hoping for a quick breakthrough will be the sectors set to benefit most.
These include the defence industry for uncrewed surveillance purposes, monitoring agencies, such as those recording the weather or scanning the seabed, as well as commercial shipping.
The idea is that you can push the vessel as hard as you can.
Dr Martyn Prince
The technology Martyn is testing is based on ships powered by fuel cells, but the fact they can run autonomously is the real boon to the climate.
Carbon savings from uncrewed vessels come from their ability not only to stay out on the ocean for much longer but also to work in conditions that humans couldn’t possibly tolerate – including dangerously high seas.
“The motion of most traditional vessels is relatively low so you’re not punishing the crew.
In large waves you go slow to limit slamming,” Martyn says.
There are industry guidelines in place determining what kind of conditions sailors and merchant navy personnel should be exposed to, so they are both comfortable and can work efficiently.
But without a crew, those restrictions fall away.
Even better, there’s no need to provide other services on board such as heating, catering and lodging areas, all of which add weight and increase carbon emissions for every sea crossing.
Now, using the Towing Tank, Martyn is figuring out just how hard a solo vessel can be pushed.
Almost all the information that the industry holds about how ships behave in tough conditions is based on vessels that come with a crew.
“Once you take the human out of the system, you can push the vessel much harder.
Then it becomes about the systems on board,” Martyn says.
During rigorous testing, the vessels are tested in all conditions from a small swell to huge waves and at different speeds to understand at what level of motion and in what kind of environment the technology can operate in.
The testing space has limits but, with the data gathered, Dominic can build mathematical tools to make predictions about what would happen in more challenging oceanic conditions that cannot be simulated in a tank.
These include important calculations such as fuel consumption rates and the ability to launch or recover remotely operated vehicles.
Initial tests have been completed and now engineers at ACUA Ocean are moving on to designing and building a first full prototype.
Tests on that product are expected within the next two years.
If successful, they could begin cutting shipping's carbon burden within a decade.
Once you take the human out of the system, you can push the vessel much harder

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/visitor-information:
Information for visitors to help you plan your journey.
Find out about directions, parking, transport, and access.
Southampton is 2 hours from London and has direct connections to many other cities.
Connect to many European destinations.
The airport is just a 12-minute bus ride from Highfield Campus.
Several coach companies run services to Southampton and Winchester.
The Satnav postcode for our main Highfield campus is SO17 1BJ.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/schools-colleges:
Here you'll find out how we can support the journey to university.
Explore our access scheme, residential courses, subject talks, online tools and help.
Whether you're a learner yourself, a teacher, careers adviser, parent, supporter or community group.
We'll help you at each stage of the university journey.
We host a range of residential opportunities.
Find a range of resources to help you support your students.
We're committed to helping students from all backgrounds progress to higher education.
Learn about our widening participation to university scheme.
Get support with your application and explore our partnership options.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/connect-with-students/student-placements.page:
Our students are equipped with fantastic academic credentials and a wide range of skills and experiences to prepare them for a successful start in the world of work.
As expected of a top university we offer a range of services and activities to enable employers of all sizes to raise their profile, promote their recruitment opportunities and engage with our students and graduates.
To view our employer engagement activities in more detail, take a look at the resources below.
We host a free jobs board where you can post opportunities and promote them to our students.
Access support here if you are seeking to recruit students for short-term internships.
An exciting opportunity to attract high-calibre students on placements between 9 and 12 months.
Work with our talented students to gain innovative solutions to a business issue.
Promote your company at one of our Careers Fairs or host an Employer Event.
Develop your professional skills whilst inspiring your mentee.
Work with our academic experts to address a strategic business challenge.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/campaigns/parents-supporters.page:
Clearing can be an uncertain time – that’s why we have listened to your questions, done the research, and gathered the information and guidance you need to confidently support your student through Clearing.
You can now watch videos from our recent parents and supporters guide to Clearing webinars, where our experts covered how Clearing works, key dates and processes, Clearing at Southampton and our top tips.
You can also view more of our tips and guidance on how to prepare for Clearing on our frequently asked questions page .
Got any questions about Clearing?
Our admissions team are happy to help: admissions@southampton.ac.uk
Incredible facilities allow us to tackle global challenges​
Source: Higher Education Statistics Agency Graduate Outcomes latest data 2024
24/7 student support, 365 days a year
Our students learn about the latest research as it happens

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/accessibility:
The University of Southampton is committed to making its website accessible in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
It is important to us that as many people as possible can use southampton.ac.uk.
Find out:
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 A standard.
The non-compliances and exemptions are listed in this statement.
You should be able to use most of southampton.ac.uk:
Get advice on making your device easier to use from AbilityNet, a charity that helps organisations be more inclusive.
Find out about parts of our site you might find hard to access.
These issues are all important for us to fix, with the ones on 'study' pages the most urgent, followed by those on 'research' and 'people' pages.
The 'Compare your rooms and halls of residence' links to campuses are hard to see because they are not underlined.
If you visit any pages other than the 'study,' 'research' and 'people' pages, you may have problems with:
You can request any information you cannot access in an alternative format.
Email your request: digital-accessibility@soton.ac.uk
We'll consider your request and get back to you within 30 days.
Alternative formats include:
You can complain to us about problems accessing information on the website or in alternative formats.
Email: digital-accessibility@soton.ac.uk
The Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) can help you do this.
They advise and support people on equality issues.
If you are unhappy with how we handle your complaint about accessing our website or alternatives, ask EASS advisors to help you resolve the issue .
Call EASS advisors on: +44(0)808 800 0082 .
This service may take your complaint to the Equality and Human Rights Commission, which enforces the regulations on accessibility.
We are making our website content more useful and usable.
We published new pages in 2023 that are easier for everyone to read and navigate.
We are also working to migrate older content into a new, more accessible system.
This is an ongoing process.
This statement was prepared on 29 October 2020.
It was last reviewed on 27 November 2024.
This website was last tested on 21 June 2022 by a third party.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
You may experience difficulties on our website due to issues we need to fix.
These issues are not compliant with WCAG 2.1, some not meeting even the minimum standard (level A).
The most common of these failures are:
There are currently no issues on southampton.ac.uk that we consider to be a disproportionate burden to fix.
Some content types are outside the scope of the regulations.
We aren’t required to fix these, including:
We often do not have control over the accessibility of third-party services and content across our website.
This includes things like:
But we’re working with vendors and reviewing our procurement processes to make sure as many people as possible can use these services.
We ask third-party suppliers to provide links to their Accessibility Conformance Report (ACR).
They can do this using the Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT).
The template supports Section 508, EN 301 549 (PDF), and W3C/WAI WCAG.
We support the searchBOX project , which provides a database of accessibility information about third-party vendors across the public sector.
You can search for third-party accessibility statements using the free searchBOX finder tool.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/governance/policies/privacy-policy.page:
The University of Southampton values your privacy and recognises the need to process the personal information we hold about you (your data) in a fair and lawful manner.
This privacy notice, together with the University Network Terms and Conditions , sets out the terms relevant to the University’s processing of personal data obtained as a result of your use of the University Network.
Where relevant, it should be read in conjunction with the privacy notices for enquirers , staff , students or alumni .
The University Network means the University’s digital information network with domain name soton.ac.uk and which may be accessed by a User in several ways, including but not limited to the World Wide Web and through various devices which are used for the transmission or reception (either wholly or in part) of any data (including voice, e-mail, video, web content or any other types or formats of data).
The University is a "Data Controller".
This means that we are responsible for deciding how we hold and use your data.
This privacy notice is being made available to you because, in order to operate the University website and fulfil your requests, we may collect and store personal information that you submit to the University via this website.
This notice informs you about how and why your personal data will be used and how long it will usually be retained by us.
It provides you with certain information that must be provided under the General Data Protection Regulation (EU 2016/679) (GDPR 2016), the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018), the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulation (PECR) and any other relevant data protection legislation that may apply (together ‘Data Protection Legislation’).
Our registration number with the Information Commissioner’s Office is Z6801020.
“Data” refers to the information that we hold about you from which either on its own or in combination with other information you can be identified.
It may include names, contact details, photographs, identification numbers, online identifiers and expressions of opinion about you or indications as to our intentions about you.
Categories of data held by the University about people who interact with the website are set out below.
"Processing" means doing anything with your data, such as collecting, recording or holding the data, as well as disclosing, destroying or using the data in any way.
This notice may be amended from time to time.
We will comply with the Data Protection Legislation and its principles, which means that your data will be:
We will collect and process the following categories of personal data about you:
We may also process the following “special categories” of more sensitive personal data, where this is necessary and you provide it to us:
We collect information directly from you during our contact with you.
We collect data from publicly available sources to support service delivery.
The University also uses services from Google, Google AdWords and Facebook on this website to measure and analyse visitor information.
For further information on these, please visit Google Analytics , Google AdWords and Facebook .
We use cookies to support your service user-experience, and to assist us with providing a better service for other users.
Allowing cookies to be used will enable your user preferences to be remembered by your device.
Some cookies are necessary for the functioning of our website.
Others are optional and we will not use them without your consent.
When you first visit our webpages, you will be asked to agree to the use of cookies.
If you do not agree, only essential cookies will be enabled.
You can read our cookie policy and change your cookie settings at any time using the Privacy Settings button on the footer of every webpage.
We will only use your personal data in accordance with the law.
Most commonly, we will use your personal data in the following circumstances:
We will only process your special category data with your consent or if it is necessary: for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims; when it is needed to protect your or another person’s vital interests and you are not capable of giving your consent, or for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes.
Generally we do not rely on consent as a legal basis for processing your personal data other than in relation to sending direct marketing communications to you via email or text message or where you have consented to us collecting your personal information through one of our online forms.
Where you have provided your consent you have the right to withdraw it at any time by sending an email to data.protection@southampton.ac.uk .
We may use and analyse the information we collect so that we can manage and improve our services.
Demographic and statistical information about user behaviour may be collected and used to analyse the popularity and effectiveness of the website.
Any disclosure of this information will be in aggregate form and will not identify individual users.
When we use your data for statistical and research purposes, we will usually anonymise your data so that you cannot be identified.
If that is not possible, we use your personal data on the basis that this is necessary: in the public interest; for scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, or for the purposes of the University’s legitimate business interests.
We will only process your data for the specific purpose or purposes that we tell you about, or if specifically permitted by the Data Protection Legislation, and will only process your data to the extent necessary for that specific purpose or purposes.
None of the personal data collected about you will be used as part of any automated decision-making about you.
If you do not provide certain categories of personal data when requested, or if you do not allow us to process your personal data collected through other means for specified purposes, we may not be able to successfully fulfil your request or deliver services to you.
Your information will be shared internally within the University for the purposes described in the section “ How we use your personal data ”.
We will never sell your data.
We only share data for purposes that are compatible with the original purpose of its collection.
Contracts will be put in place with all third-party data recipients to ensure that any personal data shared will be held in accordance with the requirements of the Data Protection Legislation.
Third-party data recipients are required to take appropriate security measures to protect your personal data in line with our policies.
We only permit third-party data recipients to process your personal data for specific purposes and in accordance with our instructions.
Exceptionally, we may disclose your data to a third party if required to do so: to protect or defend the University’s rights, interests, or property, or those of third parties; act in urgent circumstances to protect the personal safety of University constituents, or the public; or protect against legal liability.
It is important that the personal information that we hold about you is accurate and up to date.
Please notify us at infogov@southampton.ac.uk if your personal details change, or if data that we hold about you is inaccurate.
We will only retain your personal data for as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes we collect it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, insurance or reporting requirements.
Details of retention periods for different aspects of your personal data are available in our record management policy.
After this period, we will securely destroy your personal data in accordance with our record retention schedule.
The record management policy and record retention schedule can be viewed in the section titled “Our policies and procedures” on the University’s Publication Scheme webpage.
We limit access to your personal data to those employees of the University and third parties who have a business need-to-know.
They will only process your data on our instructions and they are subject to a duty of confidentiality.
The University has procedures in place to deal with any suspected data security breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of a breach in accordance with our legal obligations.
If it is necessary to transfer your personal data out of the United Kingdom (UK), for example for storage of data in the cloud, delivery of services or for research purposes, at least one of the following safeguards will be applied:
Please contact data.protection@southampton.ac.uk if you would like to receive further information on the specific mechanism used by us when transferring your personal data out of the UK.
We may, from time to time, contact you by email, post, SMS, telephone and social media or paid-for advertising with your consent (as required).
If at any stage you are concerned about the content of these communications e.g.
unwanted marketing information, or wish to change how we communicate with you, please contact us at infogov@southampton.ac.uk to unsubscribe.
All electronic communication is offered in line with EU and UK electronic privacy rules.
You have the right to withdraw your consent for direct marketing at any time.
To do so, please contact infogov@southampton.ac.uk .
Once we have received notification that you have withdrawn your consent, we may not be able to fulfil some or all of your request and, subject to our record management policy and record retention schedule, we will dispose of your personal data securely.
This website may include links to third-party websites, plug-ins and applications.
Clicking on those links or enabling those connections may allow third parties to collect or share data about you.
We do not control these third-party websites and are not responsible for their privacy statements.
When you leave our website, we encourage you to read the privacy notice of every website you visit.
You have a number of rights .
You can:
If you would like to exercise these rights please use our online form or write to:
The Data Protection Officer
Legal Services
University of Southampton, Highfield
Southampton, SO17 1BJ
Email: data.protection@soton.ac.uk
We also have additional policies and guidelines concerning particular activities.
If you would like further information please see our Publication Scheme .
Data Protection Policy

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/governance/freedom-of-information.page:
Here you can make a request to manage your personal information, make a freedom of information request or report a data breach .
The General Data Protection Regulations provide rights to individuals to manage their personal information.
Use our online form to make a request to the University in relation to personal information.
To request a copy of your dyslexia assessment, please email The Student Hub: sedcen@soton.ac.uk
To make a request under any other Data Subject Right, please contact the University’s Information Governance and Compliance team via email at data.protection@soton.ac.uk.
To enable us to process your request as efficiently as possible, please include the right under which you are making your request in the subject line of your email.
While electronic communication is more efficient, data subject requests can also be posted to: Information Governance and Compliance Team University of Southampton Building 37 Room 4015 University Road Highfield Southampton SO17 1BJ
You can also use this form if you are acting for an individual and wish to make a request on their behalf.
Applicants will also be required to provide satisfactory proof of identity.
Members of the University who submit an application electronically via their University email account will be deemed to have satisfied the requirement as to proof of identity.
The University takes the safekeeping of personal information that it holds very seriously, and applicants requesting third-party personal information (i.e.
personal information concerning a person other than themselves) should be aware that such information will not be disclosed except in the limited circumstances permitted both by law and by the University’s Data Protection Policy.
If you are unhappy with the way that we have handled your personal information you can contact us or contact the Information Commissioner’s Office.
See their website .
We have additional policies and guidelines concerning particular activities.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 gives the public the right, subject to certain exemptions enumerated in the Act, to access information held by public authorities (such as universities).
It also requires such public authorities to make information available proactively through a publication scheme .
The University has adopted the new Model Publication Scheme prepared and approved by the Information Commissioner.
Any person who makes a request to the University for information not made available through the publication scheme is entitled (subject to the exemptions enumerated in the Act) to be informed in writing whether the University holds the information requested and if so, to have the information communicated to him or her.
Any request must be in writing, must state the applicant's name and an address for correspondence, and must contain a description of the information required.
Freedom of Information requests can be emailed to the Information Governance and Compliance Team at foi@soton.ac.uk
Freedom of Information requests can also be posted to:' Information Governance and Compliance Team University of Southampton Building 37 Room 4015 University Road Highfield Southampton SO17 1BJ
If you do not feel that we have dealt with your request in accordance with the requirements of Part I of the Act, you may request a review.
Your request for a review should specify in what respect you do not feel that the requirements of Part I have been met.
The request for a review should be to: The Chief Operating Officer, University of Southampton, Highfield, Southampton, SO17 1BJ, United Kingdom or sent by email to foi@soton.ac.uk .
The Information Commissioner is responsible for enforcing rights of access to information and the operation of the publication scheme.
You may apply to the Information Commissioner in writing (FOI/EIR Complaints Resolution, Information Commissioner's Office, Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire SK9 5AF) or online for a decision whether, in any specified respect, your request for information has been dealt with by the University in accordance with the requirements of Part I of the Act.
The Information Commissioner will not normally take action unless he is satisfied that the University's review procedures have been exhausted.
All data breach incidents, actual and potential must be reported immediately a data breach occurs, is threatened or is suspected.
This should be done by using the Incident Report Form below or telephoning +44(0)23 8059 4684 during office hours and Security +44(0)23 8059 2811 x22811 outside office hours.
Use our Incident Report Form in the event of a data breach .
Remember that the reporting of data breach incidents is for the common good and the major concern is not to apportion blame, but to contain, then resolve the situation and prevent a future re-occurrence.
Failure to report data breach incidents is a serious matter as it could leave the University exposed to repeated and more serious attacks/breaches as well as to the imposition of large fines.
Further, certain types of breaches must be reported by the Data Protection Officer to the Information Commissioner’s Office within 72 hours of becoming aware of the breach, therefore, it is important that you contain and respond immediately to the discovery of a data breach.
Incidents which must be reported include those which:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/governance/regulations-policies-guidelines.page:
The University of Southampton follows the new Model Publication Scheme prepared and approved by the Information Commissioner.
Under this Publication Scheme we make the following seven classes of information available.
The following confirmed, unrestricted/non-confidential minutes of Senate meetings are publicly available and copies can be obtained by emailing FOI@soton.ac.uk.
Material which is published and accessed from our website will be provided free of charge.
Information is available in hard copy on request.
The University reserves the right to charge for photocopying, postage and packing or the costs directly incurred as a result of viewing information.
If a charge is to be made, confirmation of the payment due will be given before the information is provided.
Payment may be requested prior to provision of the information.
Any charges, payable in advance, will normally be calculated on a basis of £4+postage for the first 15 pages plus an additional 25p for each additional page requested.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/pre-sessional/modules:
Our pre-sessional courses all have modules that focus on improving your academic skills in:
Your tutors will teach you how to:
You will have tutorials with your tutors to talk about your progress and will learn how to use the University libraries .
Your tutors will teach you to:
You will regularly meet with your tutors to discuss your progress.
You will learn to study on your own by:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/pre-sessional/assessment:
You will be assessed on what you have learned in the pre-sessional modules.
You'll be assessed through:
We will mark your assessments using the University of Southampton Pre-sessional Assessment Banding.
The banding will give an approximate equivalent to the IELTS score you need for your degree course.
You do not take the IELTS test as part of the pre-sessional course.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/acoustical-engineering:
Develop the skills to work in fields such as noise control, audio engineering, architectural acoustics or biomedical ultrasounds.
We'll train you in industry-standard measurement and simulation techniques.
You'll study at our Institute of Sound and Vibration Research , where we have one of the largest anechoic chambers in the UK.
Work alongside experts in fields as diverse as reducing noise pollution from transport or using the sound of bubbles to learn about the natural world.
within 15 months of graduation (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023)
Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and meet Institute of Acoustics (IOA) membership requirements
We're the only Russell Group university offering acoustical engineering programmes
Find out more about our acoustical engineering degrees.
Contribute to the field of research in acoustical engineering by completing a PhD with us .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/aeronautical-astronautical-engineering:
Develop the theory and practical knowledge to create more powerful and efficient aircraft and spacecraft.
Individual and team design projects will grow your creativity and problem-solving skills, equipping you to work in aerospace engineering and related fields.
Options to personalise your degree include specialising and spending a year in industry.
Our 4-year courses are also available to study at University of Southampton Malaysia.
Graduate Outcomes, 2023
by the Royal Aeronautical Society and Institution of Mechanical Engineers
Find out more about our postgraduate research opportunities in engineering .
Aeronautics and astronautics graduate Oliver Hitchens put self-doubt to one side when it came to choosing a degree.
He's now studying for a PhD in his chosen field.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/ageing-gerontology:
Our courses focus on current social policy guidelines, working on issues that affect people as they age, and preparing you for a career in gerontology.
You'll learn how patterns of care change over time, how support is applied between different generations, and how care is provided to people with different characteristics.
Our graduates go on to careers including local, national and international policy development, geriatric medicine and nursing, and further specialist research.
We offer one of only a few distance learning master's programmes for this field in the country
Connect with organisations such as AgeUK , the British Society of Gerontology , and the Office for National Statistics , to prepare for your future career
We are home to a major centre for interdisciplinary research and teaching in ageing and gerontology
Our flexible study options include part-time, short courses and distance learning opportunities.
Contribute to the field of research in ageing and gerontology by completing a PhD with us .
Jane Gitau has discovered a new focus in her retirement, thanks to the ageing knowledge she gained at Southampton

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/archaeology:
On our archaeology courses, you’ll carry out fieldwork including excavations at sites in the UK or abroad.
Learn the latest theories and techniques and explore underwater archaeology with our scientific diving module.
Opportunities to study overseas give you the chance to immerse yourself in other cultures.
At master’s level, specialise in the areas that interest you and apply for heritage work placements to boost your career.
You can apply now for many of our undergraduate courses in Clearing.
Check our archaeology courses on this page, or explore our Clearing course vacancies page .
Complete University Guide 2024
If you're considering studying archaeology with us choose from a range of undergraduate and master's degrees.
Make an original research contribution with our popular PhD programme.
Our PhD programme is one of the largest archaeology research degrees in the UK.
You'll join a lively community with students from all over the world.
A lifelong love of history and a rich student experience at the University of Southampton put graduate Olivia Keegan Carr (MSci Archaeology, 2022) on the path to early career success.
Amber Williams shares her love for studying Ancient History and Archaeology at Southampton, and how her lecturers continually inspire her through their passion
Olivia Keegan Carr tells us about the positive impact of being an active member of Southampton's student community

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/art-design-fashion:
Join a community of talented creators working in one of the most beautiful cities in the UK, and one of only a few specialist art schools based at a Russell Group university.
We'll help you develop your knowledge and practice, and explore the latest theories of research in the creative subjects of art, design, fashion and digital media.
Enjoy the freedom to fully express yourself, with support from our academics, and access to dedicated studios and sophisticated tools, from 3D printers to the latest design software.
You'll also have opportunities to travel or spend a year in employment in preparation for a future career in your chosen discipline.
Check our art, design and fashion courses on this page, or explore our Clearing course vacancies page .
Complete University Guide, 2026
Spaces designed around your needs
Study in the historic city of Winchester
Graduate Outcomes 2021/2022, published in 2024
Contribute to the field of research in a range of areas in art, design, fashion and global culture by completing a PhD with us .
BA Fashion Design student Takara Thai Dimmick enjoys being in the creative environment at Winchester School of Art, where she gets to do what she loves every day

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/audiology:
Join our community of audiologists, research scientists, speech and language therapists and cochlear implant audiologists.
You'll be taught by practising clinicians and researchers who are passionate about evidence-based and patient-centred practice.
There are plenty of opportunities to practice your skills in our dedicated facilities and on clinical placements.
You can also register as a hearing care assistant after your first year.
This means you can combine work with your studies.
audiology clinic and auditory implant service
British Society of Hearing Aid Audiologists , Academy for Healthcare Science and Health and Care Professions Council
wide range of placement opportunities in the NHS and private sector
Find out more about a degree in audiology.
Contribute to the fields of research in audiology by completing a PhD with us .
Audiology at Southampton sparked a passion in Isabel McGauley for a career where she can change people’s lives by reconnecting them with their families and the wider world.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/subjects/biological-sciences:
Our courses offer flexible modules and field or laboratory placements.
Past placements have included Pfizer, Kew gardens, and conservation trusts.
Spend a semester abroad at one of our partnership universities, or work on a summer research project through a vacation scholarship.
After your degree, our graduate school will connect you to academic and industrial partners from around the world.
Graduates move into fields like medicine, environmental research, or wildlife research.
with outstanding laboratories and facilities with the latest equipment.
Graduate Outcomes 2021/2022
Choose from a wide range of degrees in biological sciences.
Contribute to the field of research in biological sciences by completing one of our PhDs or research degrees .
Discover postgraduate research opportunities in biomedical sciences .
Daisy Bown tells us about her progression from a biology undergraduate to a postgraduate student in molecular plant biology at Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/a-study-of-rolling-contact-fatigue-in-electric-vehicles-evs:
Applications are invited for a fully-funded PhD studentship studying the influence of electoral current on rolling element bearings in electricial vehicles (EVs).
This research is relevant to all engineering applications that are subject to electrification, such as electric cars, trains and aeroplanes.
Successfully completing this project will equip the doctoral graduate with knowledge and skills demanded by future industry especially those related to e-mobility.
With the rapid increase of manufacturing and usage of electric vehicles (EVs) as a direct response to the global challenge of climate change and meet the zero emissions target, the sustainability and longevity of EVs is becoming more important than ever.
As the critical component in EVs, the impact of its bearing failures caused by electrification is paramount and will hinder the growth of this technology in the near future.
Rolling element bearings, invented since 40 BC, have become one of the most critical and reliable tribological components in rotating machines such as engines and motors.
They are found to be subject to much harsher operating conditions in EVs than those in conventional internal combustion engines (ICEs) due to the much higher rotating speeds and unexpected electrification.
These put bearings at much higher risk of failure in EV motors.
Previous studies have shown a relatively low stray current in motor bearings can cause severe electrical pitting damages on bearing surfaces, leading to reduced rolling contact fatigue (RCF) lives.
This PhD will investigate the influence of electrification on bearing RCF life, providing a comprehensive understanding of their failure mechanisms as well as solutions to future sustainable EVs.
The study involves tribological testing of bearing steels on a twin-roller tribo-meter, where the contact is subject to an electrical current of a range of amplitudes and frequencies.
Post test metallographic analysis will provide insight to the failure mechanisms.
Novel sensors such as electrostatic sensing techniques will be used to monitor charging-discharging event at the contact to ilucidate the causes of bearing failures under electrification.
Materials and lubrication solutions may be investigated by testing other materials and lubricants with different electrical properties that support the development of solutions to RCF failures in EVs.
The successful candidate will be part of two research groups (nCATS and Energy Technologies) within the Mechanical Engineering Department at University of Southampton, who are global leaders in tribology and energy techniques including electrical engineering research.
Training will be provided to the student at the beginning of the project to help the student start the investigation and technical support is available throughout the entire PhD duration to ensure the success of the research project.
A UK 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £16,062 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years
You need to:
Applications should include:
Email: feps-pgr-apply@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/acoustic-monitoring-of-forest-exploitation:
Unsustainable hunting is one of the most pervasive threats to forest wildlife [1], which together with forest disturbance have large impacts on biodiversity and leads to defaunation.
Defaunation has far-reaching ecological, social, economic and gendered implications for rural communities, where wild meat contributes to food security and livelihoods [2].
The consequences on biodiversity and rural communities intensify with increased pressure from land conversion.
Whilst land conversion is detectable from satellite imagery, cryptic activities such as hunting, and resource extraction have gone under-reported.
Recent developments in acoustic sensors [3] provide us an opportunity to address this data gap.
This project will take an interdisciplinary approach to evaluating the socio–ecological sustainability of hunting practices within tropical forests in Belize, Central America.
The region has seen rapid deforestation, with increased isolation of forest areas.
The project will add to the global knowledge on the deployment strategies for acoustic sensors to collect ground-level data on hunting pressures in forest areas; will explore the socio-ecological systems where land-use change is influencing hunting activities and consequential environmental impacts; and establish community perspectives of sustainable hunting, providing novel approaches to governance and regularity frameworks of hunting activities.
For full project details visit the Inspire project page .
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent , in one of these subjects:
INSPIRE studentships are funded by the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC, part of UK Research and Innovation, UKRI).
The stipend is in line with UKRI standard levels, including the recent cost of living increase.
All studentships are fully funded for 3.5 years.
To make an application, visit the how to apply section of the INSPIRE website .
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Jake Snaddon:
Email: J.L.Snaddon@soton.ac.uk
For questions about the application process, contact the graduate school office.
Email: gsnocs@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/acoustic-sensing-characterisation-of-soil-organic-matter:
How we exploit, treat, and manage soil is critical to the global carbon cycle and our resilience to global warming.
Lively soil ensures good crops and resistance to drought but is not easy to achieve.
For instance, adding organic matter to soil may, in the longer term, be counter-effective, increasing the CO 2 emissions to the atmosphere.
Recent research suggests that there is no 'one-fits-all' solution, and soil management should account for a broad spectrum of factors.
Effective soil management requires versatile measurement techniques for capturing soil condition in situ, preferably in a remote monitoring mode.
While some methods for determining soil organic matter exist, they are immature and either confined to laboratory settings or limited to large, regional scale.
Acoustic sensing is a low-cost and versatile modality used extensively for monitoring and characterisation in various industries.
This project aims to uncover how acoustic waves travel through complex soils with different forms and levels of organic matter and develop robust and field-applicable methods for measuring soil livelihood.
Its outcome is pivotal for advancing soil management practices and learning their impact on the soil's health.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Michal Kalkowski.
Email: M.Kalkowski@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/advancing-intersectional-diaspora-led-development:
This study investigates the overlapping impact of the COVID-19 and cost-of-living crises on individual and collective remittance practices amongst diaspora communities in the United Kingdom.
Using an intersectional and relational approach and deploying innovative and creative participatory methods, the project will explore transnational household dynamics, relations and everyday practices.
There is an increasing urgency to understand the impact of multiple, overlapping national and global crises on individual and collective remittance practices.
Whilst data is beginning to emerge on the impacts of COVID-19 on recipient households, the voices of remittance sending communities and households in the United Kingdom, across multiple axes of intersectional differences or oppressions and in context of an emerging cost-of-living crisis, remain absent.
Salient questions, therefore, need to be asked about how the compounding, uneven nature of these crises shape remittance and investment decision-making and sending practices, including their individual and collective forms, and the consequences for transnational family and diaspora community dynamics.
Further, little is known about how the technologies around remittance sending are changing alongside these, and in response.
The student will develop intersectional approaches and creative methodologies to researching diaspora-led development, using key informant interviews with UK diaspora and origin country community organisations, as well as creative digital participatory methods with transnational households and communities.
The study has strong policy relevance and it will benefit from the international research and policy practitioner networks in diaspora engagement developed by the supervisory team.
We are open to the choice(s) of communities the student will work with.
We strongly encourage applications from PhD candidates who are from a migrant/diaspora background and familiar with the (trans)local context and language(s) of the communities they will research with.
You require both of the following qualifications in a social science subject:
Applications will be considered based on the candidate's:
If English isn't your first language, you'll need to complete an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) to demonstrate your competence in English.
You'll need to achieve IELTS 7.0 overall with a minimum of 6.5 in all components.
This project is funded by the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership .
Tuition fees will be paid and you'll receive a stipend (living allowance) of up to £17,668 tax-free per year, for up to 3.5 years.
You can also claim funding for training and fieldwork.
You must submit 2 application forms, one each to:
Apply to University of Southampton
Apply to ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership
You must submit your application to the University of Southampton before you apply to the ESCR South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership
Email: fels-pgr-apply@soton.ac.uk
Email: scdtp@soton.ac.uk
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Jennifer Dickinson.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/aero-engine-fan-wake-turbulence:
This PhD project provides a unique opportunity to work on aero engine fan wake turbulence at the Airbus Noise Technology Centre (ANTC), part of the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences at the University of Southampton
Turbofan engines are a dominant source of broadband noise during take-off and approach.
Broadband noise is produced by the interaction of the turbulent fan wakes with the outlet guide vanes (OGVs).
This source of noise is also relevant in contra-rotating open rotors (CRORs), as the front rotor wake impinges on the rear rotor blades, and sometimes in wind turbines.
Recent developments in aero engines focus on ultra-high bypass ratio turbofan engines for the next generation of commercial aircraft.
These are characterised by a large bypass ratio which vary between 13 and 18, and a short nacelle which reduces the separation between the fan and OGV stages, increasing the importance of anisotropy in the turbulent fan wakes.
The aim of this project is to develop a greater understanding of the role of anisotropy in turbulent wakes on fan OGV interaction noise through experimental and numerical methods.
Previous work has focussed on modelling the wake assuming isotropic turbulence.
You’ll perform numerical simulations using our in-house high order computational fluid dynamics (CFD) code with synthetically generated turbulence, and have access to our wind tunnel facilities.
You’ll work closely with one of the largest aerospace companies in the world and explore relevant problems in the industry.
You will have strong mathematical and computational skills and a good understanding of turbulence.
Some wind tunnel experience is desirable not is not essential.
ANTC was opened in November 2008 at the University of Southampton.
It is the result of the long-standing collaboration between Airbus and the university on a range of research and development projects.
The centre brings together academic staff, research fellows and PhD students using state-of-the-art computer simulations and wind tunnel testing to solve industrially relevant problems.
A UK 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £17,668 tax-free per year for up to 3.5 years.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr David Angland.
Email: D.Angland@soton.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 4987

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/against-climate-change-dacc-improving-the-estimates-of-forest:
The goal of the DACC project is to improve the monitoring of wildfires and the estimate of their emissions using uncrewed aerial systems (UAS), with a focus on the Amazon region.
Uncontrolled wildfires destroy vegetation and wildlife habitats, produce CO2 and other harmful emissions in vast quantities, and are a hazard to human health.
In the Amazon and several other regions, anthropogenic activities and climate change are increasing the scale, intensity and frequency of fire activity, fuelling a harmful feedback loop.
Satellite observations are vital for monitoring wildfires and estimating their impact in terms of fuel consumption and smoke emissions.
However, satellite systems are constrained by cloud cover and their spatial and temporal resolutions: geostationary satellites acquire imagery every 10-15 minutes but have a resolution of 2-4 km; polar-orbit satellites have higher spatial resolution (200-1000 m) but provide data every 6-12 hours.
Consequently, small/low intensity and/or short-lived fires, as well as fires burning below clouds are not detected and thereby underestimating the extent of fire activity.
Moreover, emission measurements currently rely on coarse resolution biomass (fuel load) estimates in fire affected areas and, combined, these effects result in relatively large uncertainty of regional smoke emissions.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Mario Ferraro.
Email: M.Ferraro@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/all-in-one-mars-in-situ-resource-utilisation-system-life-supporting:
This PhD project aims to develop and optimise an All-in-One in-situ resource utilisation system for future crewed Mars exploration missions and explore the feasibility of using non-thermal plasmas for:
The unique capability of non-thermal plasma in producing active species is bringing emerging attention in the context of promising applications in water treatment/purification and carbon dioxide capturing/decomposing.
removing both biological and chemical contaminants in extracted water from the surface of Mars and generating oxygen and rocket fuel from CO2 in the Martian atmosphere.
Water, oxygen, and fuel are the most important resources for future human Mars exploration missions as they are crucial to keep astronauts alive and ensure a safe journey to our home planet, Earth.
It is not feasible to carry all required amounts of water, oxygen and fuel for the entire duration of the Mars exploration mission.
In-situ resource utilisation (ISRU), therefore, is the only viable option for future crewed missions to explore and pioneer the planet Mars.
Although Mars has water trapped in the polar ice caps and the beneath its surface, water extracted from the Martian surface/underground cannot be used directly because it can contain organic contaminants, bacteria, and viruses of known and unknown origins.
Previously, the University of Southampton has developed a plasma micro-bubble water (PMW) reactor which can remove the 99.8% of chemical contaminants (Methylene Blue) and achieve 8-log reduction against biological contaminants without using any filters and disinfectants.
In addition, non-thermal plasma can be used to dissociate CO2 thus utilising rocket fuel (carbon monoxide) and oxygen from Martian atmosphere.
As the plasma-based ISRU system does not need any modification to be used in new operating conditions, the developing ISRU system can be easily adapted to various unknown environments on Mars.
This PhD project, therefore, will provide a sustainable solution to utilising resources for future crewed Mars missions exploring the unknown areas on Mars.
In this project, the candidate will develop a novel all-in-one in-situ resource utilisation system using non-thermal plasma.
This project will the part of UK Space Agency’s exploration programme.
Through this PhD project, the candidate will have a unique interdisciplinary research opportunity on investigating advanced plasma technologies which can introduce a paradigm shift in future space missions.
A First class honours degree, or its international equivalent, in a general area of engineering (such as mechanical, aerospace or chemical) or applied mathematics.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £17,668 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Minkwan Kim.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/an-electromagnetic-study-of-the-continent-ocean-transition:
The breakup of continents is fundamental to the creation of the Earth’s surface and oceans but many aspects remain poorly understood.
Breakup involves a complex interplay of extensional tectonics and magmatism, resulting in a range of rifted margin types, including a “magma-poor” end-member involving broad regions of exhumed and serpentinised (hydrated) mantle.
Breakup at such margins is commonly followed by slow to ultra-slow seafloor spreading, which can also result in mantle exhumation and thus ambiguity about where seafloor spreading starts.
Normal faulting plays a key role in supplying fluids driving serpentinisation beneath hyper-extended continental crust but its role in regions of exhumed mantle is less clear.
To address these issues, we will image lateral variations in serpentinisation and magmatism at the Goban Spur margin southwest of the UK by acquiring the first controlled source electromagnetic (CSEM) dataset across a continent-ocean transition (expected summer 2023), using both towed and seabed receivers.
We will also detect differences between underlying continental and oceanic mantle using passive electromagnetic (magnetotelluric) data.
The student will analyse a subset of this dataset, guided by results from a wide-angle seismic survey acquired during the same cruise and extensive pre-existing multichannel reflection data along the same profiles and nearby.
Supervisors:
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent , in one of these subjects:
To make an application, visit the how to apply section of the Inspire website .
For questions about the project, email Professor Tim Minshull:
For questions about the application process, email the graduate school office:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/relationship-between-health-home-law-in-poor-housing-complex-illness:
This interdisciplinary project will investigate relationships between health, law and home in the context of poor and precarious housing; and complex/advanced illness.
It aims to make recommendations to improve housing conditions and the effectiveness of housing regulation.
The project will appeal to those interested in social justice and user experience.
Poor, inadequate, and precarious housing is an important driver of health inequity.
Exposure to poor housing conditions including damp, cold, mould and noise, is strongly associated with poor physical and mental health, reduced feelings of control over one’s life, and increased use of health services.
Poor housing conditions are extensively regulated but inadequately enforced.
The private rental sector has the highest rates of poor housing, and precarity is rapidly increasing: evictions have risen rapidly, and renters report they couldn’t afford the costs of moving if evicted.
Marginal populations are spending longer periods in poor and insecure housing, with adverse consequences for their health and healthcare access, particularly where there is complex illness.
Coroners’ reports and statutory enforcement decisions are underutilised resources in understanding the relationship between precarious housing and premature death.
They also have underexploited potential to provide explore the complexity and contingency of the relationship between health outcomes and home.
This project is timely as the endemic relationship between poor and precarious housing, and health has become urgent due to the cost-of-living and fuel crisis.
The approach is user-focused and values-based, emphasising the perspective of people with complex/advanced disease.
Lived and/or professional experience of poor housing conditions will be as significant a factor in recruitment as academic attainment; there is scope to develop the project to reflect the interests and community links of the candidate, focusing on a variety of legal and health research methods such as coroner report reviews, visual ethnography or secondary analysis of datasets.
You must have the following (or their international equivalents ):
You must also give a satisfactory interview.
If English is not your first language, you'll need an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) minimum level of 7.0 overall with 6.5 in all components.
Your awarded certificate needs to be dated within the last 2 years.
Visit our English language proficiency pages to find out about other qualifications we accept.
If you need further English language tuition before starting your degree, you can apply for one of our pre-sessional English language courses .
This project is funded by the the Economic and Social Research Council through the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership .
Your tuition fees will be paid and you'll receive a stipend (living allowance) of £17,668 tax-free per year for up to 3.5 years.
If you have any questions about the degree application, email the graduate school .
Then you need to apply to the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP), funded by the Economic and Social Research Council.
You don't need to wait for a decision from the University before making your SCDTP application.
Visit the SCDTP website to apply for funding .
If you have any questions about the funding application, email the SCDTP .
If you have a general question, email our doctoral college (fels-gradschool@soton.ac.uk)
For an initial conversation, email Dr Katherine Hunt (K.J.Hunt@soton.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/antibiotic-resistance-genes-in-chalk-streams:
Our river systems face multiple threats.
Summer 2022’s drought, followed by rain and discharge of sewage from overflows, and the widespread problem of plastic pollution, highlight the challenges that we face in managing our water resources under climate change.
Chalk streams are among the rarest of freshwater habitats globally and are critical for biodiversity as well as having substantial cultural value1, yet their microbial communities are poorly characterized.
Of particular concern are microbes with genes encoding antimicrobial resistance that could contribute to treatment-resistant infections.
For example, agricultural run-off of nutrients and pesticides, or pharmaceutical compounds escaping from sewage works, or the contamination with plastic waste2 could all be leading to the enrichment of antibiotic-resistant bacterial populations.
We hypothesise that antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) accumulate at specific sites, such as downstream of wastewater treatment works, or specifically within biofilms on plastics or microplastics.
The objective of this project is to assess bacterial communities in different locations in chalk rivers and identify factors that lead to the selection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Marc Dumont:
Email: m.g.dumont@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/being-autistic-in-care-understanding-differences-in-care:
The outcomes of autistic children in care are known to be poor.
This project in collaboration with looked-after children’s services, will analyse the case files of looked-after children to identify patterns of placement breakdown.
There is very little research on the trajectories of autistic children through the care system, the patterns of their placements and why their placements breakdown.
This data is vital for improving services and support for foster carers, and for the outcomes for young people.
This is an ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership funded project.
You’ll work with the local authorities to develop an understanding of the challenges faced by autistic children in care and make recommendations for future policy.
This project may be of interest if you have experienced care or are neurodivergent, so we would encourage you to apply.
You require both of the following qualifications in a relevant subject area:
You must also have:
You'll need to achieve a Band G, IELTS 7.0 overall with a minimum of 6.5 in all components.
Full tuition fees and a tax-free stipend of £17,668 for up to 3.5 years.
There is also access to additional support for training and fieldwork.
You must submit 2 application forms to:
You must have submitted an application to us before completing the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership form.
Email: fss-pgr-apply@soton.ac.uk
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Sarah Parsons.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/biogeochemical-cycling-in-the-critical-coastal-zone:
Coastal zones are hotspots for biogeochemical cycling, playing a globally-important role in the Earth System and underpinning diverse societal and ecological services.
Coastal sediments are highly efficient bioreactors, mineralising carbon, recycling nutrients and controlling primary production.
However, coastal processes can also drive negative outcomes e.g.
the production of algal blooms and low oxygen conditions, with detrimental impacts for coastal ecosystems.
Despite the importance of this part of the ocean, the environmental controls on the consumption, production and conversion of nutrients and other solutes in coastal, often sandy (permeable), sediments remain poorly understood 1,2 .
This uncertainty arises from a paucity of direct measurements in the upper centimetre-decimetre of coastal sediments, which often feature very steep geochemical gradients.
Direct measurements have not been possible previously due to a lack of in-situ sensors for many biogeochemical species.
However, new Lab-on-Chip sensors 3 provide analytical capabilities to finally resolve geochemical processes and provide a much-needed step change in coastal sediment understanding.
This project will develop and test novel methods using for the first time Lab-on-Chip sensors to quantify nutrient gradients and fluxes in permeable sediments and will transform our understanding of critical biogeochemical processes across coastal zones.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Anna Lichtschlag:
Email: a.lichtschlag@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/bloom-bust-seasonal-cycles-of-phytoplankton-carbon-flux:
CO 2 taken up from the atmosphere by biological processes in the ocean is transferred into the deep ocean mostly in the form of sinking particles.
Without this “biological carbon pump”, atmospheric CO 2 would be 50% higher than it already is.
Despite its importance, our understanding is limited by scarce ship-board observations, especially how particulate organic carbon (POC) fluxes vary over days to seasons.
However, a growing network of underwater robots are opening the door for high-resolution observations of these sinking particles.
Gliders are unmanned autonomous vehicles that make measurements over weeks to months, including optical backscatter data which can be used to estimate POC fluxes.
At one of the UK’s long-term observing sites ( https://projects.noc.ac.uk/pap/ ) we have collected data from multiple glider missions, including in collaboration with colleagues at NASA ( https://oceanexports.org/ ).
These data will allow important unresolved questions to be addressed: How do fluxes vary seasonally in relation to phytoplankton blooms?
How episodic are the fluxes?
What are the implications for characterizing global-scale organic carbon fluxes?
(Bol et al., 2018; Henson et al., 2015) Filling this gap will allow better predictions of how this important planetary carbon flux is linked to productivity and how it responds to variability in the environment.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Stephanie Henson:
Email: s.henson@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/british-black-lives-matter-a-modern-civil-rights-movement:
How are the conditions of emergence, and the intellectual thought, of the British BLM movement related to the Black British Civil Rights movement that developed in, and beyond, the 1960s?
This project will address the continuing history of political reflection on the structural conditions of black/white inequality in the UK and the relationship of this continuing history to protest movements arising within the BAME community.
It will explore contemporary BLM protests against that history of protest and in the context of its understanding of the UK’s (global) history of black/white relations.
This is a supervisor-led PhD project for equality, diversity and inclusion.
We encourage candidates from under-represented backgrounds to apply.
You'll also have good communication and time management skills.
If you have a general question, email our doctoral college (fss-gradschool@soton.ac.uk)
For an initial conversation, email Dr Gillian Kennedy (gillian.kennedy@soton.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/building-physics-for-low-carbon-comfort-using-ai:
Existing buildings need to completely decarbonise comfort at scale by 2050 in the face of a warming climate, and the materials and methods needed to do this are relatively clear.
However, the implications of energy-efficient retrofit and energy source switching at scale for adaptive and normative comfort (thermal, air quality, liveability) are not well understood.
We also know very little about how these new or retrofitted buildings perform over their life-course making evidence-based design extremely difficult.
Crucially, due to a combination of global warming, cost of living crisis and shifting norms of thermal comfort, there are also significant risks of lock-in to ad-hoc, climate-harming and energy intensive systems.
This research project will explore the intersection between the following themes:
Understanding how different combinations of passive and active building design, materials, methods and occupant cultures, norms and practices contribute to comfort (both heating and cooling), at all scales from the personal (wearable) to the city.
This will lead to innovative socio-technical solutions that avoid sub-optimal techno-lock-in
Understanding and finding economic solutions that substantially improve internal air quality in new or retrofitted buildings.
Applying Internet of Things (IoT) or digital transformation approaches to detailed monitoring of building performance over extended periods of time.
This deep measurement will underpin innovation in the other strands and also enable evidence-based (as opposed to the current assumption-based) simulation of future buildings at highly granular scales using novel digital-twin and interpretable data-driven models (AI/ML).
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/building-resolved-large-eddy-simulations-wind-dispersion-urban-area:
This project will investigate across-scale physical processes in urban areas, with a focus ranging from the metre to kilometre scales.
We will develop a computational fluid dynamics tool, using an open source code and the efficient inflow turbulence generation method developed at Southampton, to significantly speed up the numerical simulations, and therefore bridge gaps in protection in urban environments.
We are in a changing world.
This includes climate change, fast developing urban environments where most of the population lives.
It is crucial that we are able to understand such a complex system, and therefore to build more reliable predictive tools in time, such as for street airflows, temperature hot spots, concentration of pollutants, chemicals and pathogens in urban areas,  to mitigate any impact to be resilient.
To learn more about how important these issues are for the modern world, please read the announcement of the Nobel Prize in Physics 2021 .
The objectives of the project are:
You will join our flourishing Aerodynamics and Flight Mechanics group , which engages in a wide range of experimental and numerical studies of turbulent flows.
The project will benefit from close collaboration with other researchers and colleagues.
You will have access to the local and national supercomputers, and work closely with the UK Met Office colleagues through placements and regular meetings.
One of your supervisors will be Lois Huggett from the UK Met Office.
You must have a UK 2:1 honours degree or its international equivalent .
We offer a range of funding opportunities for both UK and international students, including Bursaries and Scholarships.
To learn about funding opportunities visit our Doctoral College scholarships and bursaries information .
Funding will be awarded on a rolling basis.
Apply early for the best opportunity to be considered.
If you have a general question, email: feps-pgr-apply@soton.ac.uk
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please email Professor Zhengtong Xie: z.xie@soton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/business-studies-management-accounting:
Southampton Business School has an ambitious, quality-driven strategy of growth.
To enable world-leading research and generate knowledge that is recognised in the global academic community, we're awarding full PhD studentships to outstanding candidates.
We're a world-class department looking for PhD candidates interested in all areas of accounting, with their own research proposal.
You'll have excellent quantitative and qualitative accounting skills.
Two of our priority accounting research areas include:
Explore our supervisor profile section to learn about our research expertise.
Visit the Centre for Accounting Accountability and Governance website to search our work and activities in detail.
This project will start on 25 September 2023 with 3 years of funding.
It's open to both UK and international students.
If English is not your first language, you'll need an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) minimum level of 7.0 with a 6.5 in writing, reading, speaking and listening.
If you are working towards this test, we may still be able to make you an offer.
However, you must achieve the minimum level stated above.
Tuition fees will be paid and you'll receive a stipend (living allowance) of £17,668 tax-free per year for up to 3 years.
If you have a general question, email our doctoral college (fss-gradschool@soton.ac.uk) .
For an initial conversation email Professor Alaa Zalata (A.Zalata@soton.ac.uk) .
You can also discuss any project details informally by contacting our PhD director, Dr Pingli Li:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/business-studies-management-banking-finance:
We're a world-class department looking for PhD applicants interested in finance and banking.
This studentship is for applicants with expertise in big data modelling, with their own research proposal.
We're looking for a candidate who can develop new approaches to identifying patterns in big data.
Visit the Centre for Empirical Research in Finance and Banking website to search our work and activities in detail.
For an initial chat conversion email Professor Tapas Mishra (T.K.Mishra@soton.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/business-studies-management-decision-analytics-risk:
We're a world-class department in risk research looking for applicants interested in decision analytics and risk.
This studentship is for applicants with their own research proposal in risk-related areas including:
Visit the Centre for Risk Research website to search our work and activities in detail.
For an initial conversation email Professor Yaniv Hanock (y.hanoch@soton.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/business-studies-management-digital-data-driven-marketing:
We're looking for applicants interested in digital and data driven marketing.
This studentship is for candidates with their own research proposal in a marketing-related area such as:
Visit the Centre for Marketing Research website to search our work and activities in detail.
For an initial conversation email Professor Paurav Shukla (P.V.Shukla@soton.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/business-studies-management-human-resources-hr-management:
We're a world-class department in work and organisations looking for applicants interested in HR management and organisational behaviour.
This studentship is for candidates with their own research proposal in this area.
Visit the Centre for Work and Organisations website to search our work and activities in detail.
For an initial conversation email either:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/business-studies-management-strategy-innovation:
We're a world-class department in entrepreneurial studies looking for applicants interested in strategy, innovation and entrepreneurship.
Visit the Centre for Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation website to search our work and activities in detail.
For an initial conversation email Professor Stratos Ramoglou (S.Ramoglou@soton.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/carbon-storage-reactive-rock-systems:
When carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) comes in contact with mafic to ultramafic rocks (e.g.
basalt, peridotite), mineral dissolution and precipitation reactions produce carbonate minerals.
This process provides a pathway by which CO 2 can be removed from the atmosphere and permanently stored in the geologic subsurface.
Engineering this CO 2 mineralization process has the potential to remove mega- to giga-tonnes of CO 2 per year.
To develop the full CO 2 removal potential of these rocks, we must understand the fundamental processes of fluid flow and reactive transport of these fractured multi-scale rock systems, where permeability, porosity and reactive surface area are continually changing through time.
The principal aim of this project is:
For questions about the project, contact Professor Juerg Matter.
Email: j.matter@southampton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/cascading-hazards-from-the-largest-volcanic-eruption:
The most explosive volcanic event in >100 years occurred in January 2022, when Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai (HTHH) erupted unexpectedly, triggering cascades of hazards1.
The atmospheric shockwave was felt around the planet, tsunamis inundated coastlines, and communications were cut when seafloor cables were damaged.
Unique datasets were acquired before and after the eruption, providing the first opportunity to study the hazard cascades created by such a powerful event.
New seafloor and subsurface geophysical data, acquired three months after the eruption, enable comparison with pre-eruption data, to show how the volcano evolved and shaped the surrounding seafloor.
Initial analysis reveals that powerful pyroclastic density currents were generated following the initial eruption, sculpting deep seafloor channels and travelling vast distances.
These surges may be the main trigger for tsunamis and responsible for >100 km of damage to seafloor cables; however, this requires validation.
Coring of the seafloor and on onshore islands will provide the necessary sedimentological constraint to the eruptive timeline.
This timely project offers a unique opportunity to determine the distribution, timing, behaviour and impact of pyroclastic flows, the linked and cascading hazards associated with such a major eruption, and new insights into many other volcanoes worldwide that pose similar hazards.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Isobel Yeo:
Email: i.yeo@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/characterisation-cast-austenitic-stainless-steels-ultrasonic-backscatter-artificial-intelligence:
If you enjoy numerical modelling and are you interested in the application of artificial intelligence (AI) to engineering problems, this may be the right project for you.
Our main aim is to combine the power of finite element modelling with artificial intelligence to develop ultrasonic characterisation of castings in-situ.
Whilst helping to improve the way the industry manages safety-critical assets, you'll develop a transferrable skillset comprising:
Stainless steel castings possess outstanding corrosion resistance and mechanical properties.
For these reasons, they underpin numerous safety-critical installations and are ubiquitous in, e.g.
nuclear power plants.
However, their excellent performance comes at a cost - they are challenging to inspect for damage in situ.
Ultrasound - the preferred inspection method - suffers from the coarse-grained microstructure, which scatters and attenuates injected acoustic energy making reflections from defects illegible.
Having some knowledge about the microstructure before testing offers game-changing possibilities.
First, one could tailor the inspection protocol to minimise the detrimental effect of noise.
Second, it would help select the correct procedure for a specific defect which is a crucial maintenance challenge.
Unfortunately, such information is currently only available from destructive tests.
Your PhD will pave the way towards in-situ microstructure characterisation using ultrasound and help transform common inspection practice.
You'll employ artificial intelligence to support developing the physical understanding of how microstructure reveals itself in ultrasonic backscatter.
Using GPU-powered ultrasound simulations, you will run a large set of virtual experiments for numerous synthetically created microstructures with carefully controlled parameters.
Learning from data, including choosing a suitable AI methodology, and proposing in-situ characterisation methods is the promise of this project.
You will use Southampton's High-Performance Computing facility, as well as advanced material characterisation techniques in the School of Engineering.
The true potential of the methods you propose will be showcased using ultrasonic measurements on samples of industrial relevance.
As a PhD student, you will be a part of the Dynamics Group within the University's Institute of Sound and Vibration Research.
You will contribute to developing the exciting capability in AI-powered NDT, working alongside researchers using acoustics to interrogate and characterise structures and materials of different scales and complexities.
UK 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent.
A background in finite element modelling and Python is highly desirable.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £16,062 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
Feel free to contact Michal Kalkowski for an informal chat about the project and pursuing a PhD in Southampton.
Email: m.kalkowski@soton.ac.uk
We look forward to hearing from you!

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/climate-change-effects-on-the-developmental-physiology-of-the:
Elasmobranchs (sharks and rays) are important components of marine ecosystems worldwide but are poorly studied compared to many teleost species.
Effects of climate change on elasmobranchs are still poorly understand, but their low fecundity and relatively long embryonic development stage could make elasmobranchs particularly vulnerable to some climate change effects.
Ocean acidification (OA) has been shown to increase mortality and induce developmental defects in early juvenile teleosts, e.g.
(Stiasny et al., 2019), but comparative data on elasmobranchs are lacking as laboratory experiments are relatively difficult.
Elasmobranch physiology, reproductive style, blood chemistry and respiratory anatomy all differ markedly from teleosts, so that experimental results from teleosts cannot be assumed to apply.
Limited studies to date give contrasting views on the sensitivity of shark developmental physiology to OA, e.g.
(Green and Jutfelt, 2014), but very little work has been done, and we have essentially no experimental basis to predict how resilient early development of elasmobranchs is to climate change effects.
This project therefore aims to explore the long-term effects of OA and potentially other climate drivers on the early development of sharks, in particular the development of gills and the skeletal structures, which Stiasny et al.
(2019) showed to be affected in cod.
For questions about the project, email Dr Martina Stiasny:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/climate-at-the-time-of-the-human-settlement-of-the-eastern:
The migration into the Pacific Ocean and the settlement of island archipelagoes by the ancestors of modern Pacific islanders is contested yet remains one of humankinds greatest achievements.
Evidence for when and why people chose to undertake hazardous voyages is uncertain, but recent hypotheses developed in part by the supervisory team, point to a coincidence with a widespread regional drought (Sear et al.
2020; Maloney et al.
2022).
What we are less certain of is what role climate played in driving the migrations east into Polynesia and how it supported those migrations – were they in effect “chasing the rain” east as drought developed in the west?
What is also unclear is the extent of this drought and the detail of its duration around the eastern region settled by the Polynesian voyagers.
To understand this requires robust dated sediment archives containing both unequivocal evidence for human arrival and presence, and hydroclimate proxies.
This project will develop these for 3 islands in French Polynesia and combine the new records with existing evidence from other regions of the Pacific (e.g.
Cook Is., Marquesas Is.
e.g.
Allen et al.
2011) to understand the temporal and spatial coincidence of climate and human migration.
For questions about the project, email Professor David Sear:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/collaborative-privacy-in-data-marketplaces:
In this PhD project, you'll investigate how to advance data-sharing and data marketplaces with a PhD opportunity led by Dr George Konstantinidis .
Your PhD will be part of the RAISE and UPCAST Horizon Europe projects, which aim to:
You’ll have the option to research, design and implement algorithms for one or a combination of the following research themes:
You’ll explore topics ranging from query answering in the face of constraints/ontologies, to reasoning algorithms for knowledge graphs, depending on your interests and expertise.
You will investigate, develop, and maintain:
All these tasks will build upon and extend existing implementations.
In this option, you’ll investigate data privacy for data sharing mechanisms, such as the use of Blockchains, using knowledge graphs and algorithmic mechanisms to express privacy preferences.
You'll develop middleware that automates and streamlines negotiations and convergences of data sharing agreements that are currently written in human language.
This system will manage the negotiation of privacy preferences against different pricing schemes in contrast to the more traditional accept/reject approaches, model data processing purposes and support privacy updates, such as withdrawal of consent.
You’ll examine dataset search, focusing on:
As part of this PhD project, you’ll write and submit academic papers, technical reports, and project deliverables.
You will also have the opportunity to travel to conferences and meetings to present your work while representing the team
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr George Konstantinidis.
Email: g.konstantinidis@soton.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 2978

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/compatibility-of-climate-biodiversity-targets:
Averting catastrophic climate change will require transformational societal change.
A key aspect of such change will be in sectors such as agriculture and energy systems.
However, there is emerging evidence ((Dunnett et al.
2022) that some options for achieving our climate ambitions risk undermining globally agreed targets relating to biodiversity and ecosystem services.
It is therefore essential that future energy and agricultural systems are designed to address both the climate and ecological crisis in parallel.
Doing so will require ensuring that land used to meet future energy and food demand does not impact our imperative to maintain and even increase natural ecosystems such as forests.
The aim of this project is to develop and empirically test spatial models that assess the degree to which transformational change of landscapes to mitigate climate change can also achieve   the protection of natural systems on which human wellbeing depends.
Analysis will be conducted at both regional scale to address policy relevant questions for the UK government, and at global scale to examine compatibility between global targets relating to climate and biodiversity.
Questions will be examined through the lens of international treaties (e.g UN SDGs) and their regional implementation strategies (e.g.
UK 25 Year Environment Plan).
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Robert Holland:
Email: r.a.holland@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/counting-the-cost-of-living-in-modern-fossil-animals:
The energetic cost of living defines how animals interact with their environment.
The rate at which animals capture and expend energy dictates where and how they can live, and their relative sensitivity to ecological and environmental change.
Energetic traits face strong selection, and morphological features are often assumed to imply changes in bioenergetic traits.
Energy is typically measured by assessing heat production or the oxygen consumption rates.
Both of these approaches are extremely difficult to apply in field conditions or on fossil samples.
Consequently, despite the fundamental importance of energy expenditure in ecology, evolution and conservation physiology, we have very little comparative quantitative information on the realised energetic costs of living for wild animals in either modern or fossil settings.
Recently, chemical proxies for realised metabolic rate have been proposed, based on carbon isotope compositions (Chung et al 2019), trace metals (Limberg et al 2018) and concentrations of respiratory macromolecules preserved in ancient biominerals (Weimann et al 2022).
This project will refine, improve and intercompare proxies for field metabolic rate.
You will apply metabolic proxies to provide the first empirical data for how metabolic level varies among modern and fossil organisms, linking physiology and evolutionary ecology.
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent , in any earth or environmental science discipline.
For questions about the project, email Dr Clive Trueman:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/creative-clusters-in-rural-coastal-post-industrial-towns:
The project aims to explore the development of creative and cultural clusters in locations beyond large urban centres including rural, coastal and post-industrial towns.
Using qualitative and quantitative methods, the project will examine the reasons behind such cluster development and the implications for local economies and policy initiatives.
Despite the strong tendency for creative and cultural industries to concentrate in the largest metropolitan areas, a growing number of studies in many different countries have reported that some of these industries are growing rapidly in small towns and in post-industrial regions.
This expansion has been partly attributed to technological change and digitisation, partly to:
Not surprisingly, policy-makers have seized on these findings to argue that creative clusters can act as a tool for regeneration and inclusive growth in struggling towns.
This project would develop a critical examination of these trends and arguments.
These debates are beset by many unanswered questions and uncertainties.
How do creative clusters vary between different categories of small, peripheral and left-behind towns and do they share common constraints?
How strong are growth dynamics in different industries and what is the balance between growth and decline in different sectors and places?
In recent years in the UK, levelling up funds have been spent on revising ‘place imaginaries’, increasing place attachment and stimulating cultural activities.
However, there has been little evaluation of whether these activities are both meeting industry needs and boosting inclusive employment.
We are looking for PhD students to co-design a project around this broad topic.
Both quantitative and qualitative methods may be used and students are encouraged to develop an approach which reflects their own interests and connections.
You’ll need either of the following (or their international equivalents ):
If English is not your first language, you'll need an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) minimum level of 6.5 with a 6.0 in writing, reading, speaking and listening.
This project is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council through the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership.
Your tuition fees will be paid and you'll receive a stipend (living allowance) of £17,668 tax-free per year (22/23 rate) for up to 3.5 years.
You'll need to send us:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/deep-oceanic-convection-the-outsized-role-of-small-scale:
Deep-water formation (convection) at high-latitudes, and more specifically in the Labrador Sea in the subpolar North Atlantic, forms a key part of the large-scale ocean circulation.
This enables the exchange of gases between the atmosphere and deep ocean, and thus contributes to the global oceanic sequestration of carbon.
In a warming climate, added volumes of freshwater into the Labrador Sea, associated with the increased melting of Greenland ice sheet and of Arctic sea-ice, are expected to reduce or shutdown convection, which would reduce the ocean’s potential to mitigate climate change.
In the western Labrador Sea, freshwater is exchanged between the basin boundary and interior due in part to small-scale (submesoscale <10 km) processes.
Recent evidence revealed that eddies, sea-ice, and atmospheric (wind and buoyancy) forcing can all influence these small-scale processes.
However, high-resolution observations in the Labrador Sea are scarce due to extreme winter conditions.
Thus, the mechanisms responsible for the cessation of convection remain poorly understood and are largely neglected by climate models.
This project will use multi-year measurements from autonomous platforms (gliders) to investigate the role of small-scale processes on the cessation of convection.
The student will determine the competing effects of eddies, atmospheric forcing, and sea-ice on the lifecycle of convection.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Louis Clément:
Email: l.clement@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/defect-categories-realisation-in-supersymmetric-gauge-theory:
Defects are geometric probes of physical systems with a variety of applications and deep mathematical roots.
You’ll contribute to building a bridge between the abstract mathematical description of extended defects, and standard Quantum Field Theory (QFT) constructions like local fields and actions.
You'll also learn category theory, supersymmetry, localization, and gauge theory.
Quantum Field Theory (QFT) was introduced soon after quantum mechanics to describe the interactions of relativistic particles.
Today, it forms the basis for models of particle physics, condensed matter systems, statistical physics, and even quantum gravity - via holography.
QFT is the single most successful model of the natural world currently available to us, but it is still rather mathematically mysterious.
Originally, the focus of QFT was describing point-like particles.
However, it has gradually become apparent that defects - higher dimensional embedded geometric objects - are indispensable as QFT probes.
Due to the difficulty of doing computations in generic QFTs, much of what we know about defects comes from models with supersymmetry, and techniques like localization.
An abstract approach has also been developed using category theory - a mathematical language which serves as a link between the geometric and algebraic worlds - which has been successful at describing simple examples like T(opological)QFT.
In this project you will study gauge theories, QFT models which describe most of the forces in nature.
You will learn to exploit higher category theory and TQFT to study and classify defects in non-abelian-, supersymmetric-, and higher- gauge theory.
The project sits at the nexus of cutting-edge mathematics and theoretical physics, an exciting and incredibly active interdisciplinary area of research.
You will benefit from interactions with a well-established international research network devoted to studying these topics.
We are looking for a highly motivated student, with a strong mathematical background, and an interest in theoretical physics.
A master's degree ( or international equivalent ) in mathematics, physics, or a related subject.
For UK students, tuition fees will be paid and you'll receive a stipend (living allowance) of £17,668 tax-free per year for up to 3.5 years.
For an initial conversation, email Dr Itamar Yaakov (I.Yaakov@soton.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/defining-the-marine-fisheries-energy-environment-nexus:
Natural resource management tends to consider individual sectors in isolation and in simplistic terms.
However, resource domains are interconnected and complex (the Nexus) requiring a need to consider them more holistically through a systems approach in which trade-offs and synergies (win:win) can be identified.
This project will investigate the interactions between food (marine fisheries), energy (fishing vessel fuel; offshore windfarms), and the environment (marine habitat / carbon storage) and how shocks (climate events, Brexit, pandemics, war in Ukraine) impact the system in both positive and negative and sometimes unforeseen ways.
For example, fishing activity may have declined in response to COVID-19 and associated reduction in demand or increased fuel prices due to the war in Ukraine.
This may result in short term negative impacts on the fishing industry, but longer-term benefits for the resource (potential recovery from overfishing).
Alternatively, for some the potential to remain at sea for longer periods may have reduced risk of catching COVID-19 on land if they have the ability to freeze their catch, while UK sanctions on Russian imports of whitefish may have increased demand and value of the product, offsetting the cost of fuel.
The successful applicant will have an interest in natural resource management,.
as indicated by a degree in the relevant subject (Environmental Science, Economics or Environmental Engineering related discipline), an interest in developing new skills and using novel techniques (related to computer science) to solve challenges posed, and be comfortable with complexity with an ability to embrace nuance.
They will develop data analytical skills, potentially in Big Data obtained from social media and AI, study design, Matlab and R, and technical writing capabilities.
The student will join a cohort of like-minded researchers working on interdisciplinary projects.
The research team at the International Centre for Ecohydraulics Research has a strong track record in publishing high impact scientific articles, public engagement and political outreach, and employability for graduates.
Faculty of engineering and physical sciences

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/design-fabrication-of-next-generation-optical-fibres:
High power fibre lasers (HPFLs), developed first at the University of Southampton, have advanced beyond recognition.
Output powers have increased by more than 4 orders of magnitude in the past 2 decades, reaching 10kW in a single beam.
They are widely used in the most advanced production lines for cutting, welding, 3D printing and marking of a myriad of materials from glass to steel.
However, we are now close to the maximum power that can be produced by a single fibre laser.
To continue increasing the power, new solutions must be found.
Just as modern computers contain large numbers of processor cores rather than a single high-speed core, the future for HPFLs is in the combination of multiple fibre lasers
The successful combination of large numbers of fibre lasers would transform manufacturing.
Such a breakthrough could enable control of all light properties, such as:
This would enable the creation of dynamically reconfigurable structured light that changes “on the fly” depending on the specific application.
Such a “digital fibre laser” would not only make the UK a more prosperous nation, but also allow us to:
All-in-all, making the world a better, cleaner, greener, and safer place.
The University of Southampton has recently been awarded £6million to solve the challenges associated with the creation of the “digital fibre laser”, and you will be part of this team effort.
You will be focussed on fabricating the next generation of optical fibres and novel materials, to overcome the limitations of current HPFLs and provide the passive and active silica fibres needed to meet the stringent requirements for the next generation of high-power fibre lasers.
New materials are key, because in photonics you rarely have the material you want, and hence novel performance and enhanced functionalities generally require development of new or further optimised materials.
You will be conducting fundamental research into novel fibre materials and geometries, with a focus on achieving near quantum-limited efficiency and low photodarkening, exploring new material combinations and fibre structures with low acousto-optic and thermo-optic coefficients, and demonstrating novel methods to fabricate polarisation-maintaining fibres.
To overcome these limitations, you will be using our recently developed modified chemical vapour deposition techniques in our state-of-the-art clean rooms that enable the fabrication of multi-layered preforms with complex rare-earth doping profiles.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/developing-practical-application-uav-conservation-monitoring-endangered-wildlife:
Many wildlife species have been pushed into Earth’s few remaining areas still unmodified by human activities, at the edge of existence.
Advances in the capabilities of Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), remotely operated camera and acoustic technologies, and big-data analysis by machine learning, now offer opportunities to survey otherwise inaccessible areas and develop robust datasets for populations of conservation concern, which are often cryptic species.
This technology promises – but has not yet delivered on its potential – to count animals too rare for foot patrols and too cryptic for satellite imagery, to follow individual animals without disturbing them, and to quantify forest biodiversity and hunting frequency from soundscapes – all complex problems insoluble by direct observation.
Your project will develop and test methodologies for evaluating this promise.
You will trial newly developed equipment and collect field data relevant to conservation management of snow leopards in Kazakhstan (IUCN Red Listed as Vulnerable), and/or scimitar-horned oryx (Regionally Extinct), addax (Critically Endangered) and slender-horned gazelles (Endangered) in Tunisia.
By the end of this project, you will have added to global knowledge on value and limits of conservation technology, to projections for population trajectories of endangered mammals, and to understanding of causes of population declines.
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent , in any discipline.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Patrick Doncaster.
Email: cpd@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/development-evolution-of-animal-biomineral-skeletons:
Marine plankton communities are a fundamental component of the Earth system.
They support food webs, drive global biogeochemical cycles, and play a central role in the regulation of Earth’s climate1.
These ecosystem functions are carried out by an extremely diverse microbial community, and predicted changes in biodiversity and biogeography are therefore likely to have important impacts within the Earth system.
Species distribution models (SDMs) have proved to be a powerful method for estimating contemporary plankton biogeography and biodiversity.
However, they make a number of important and somewhat unrealistic assumptions2, especially in relation to marine microbial communities.
Most notably, they neglect the known capacity of microbial species to rapidly evolve, and they do not account for dispersal by ocean currents.
With SDMs increasingly being applied to predict the future response of marine communities to environmental change it is important that these sources of error and uncertainty are quantified.
The aim of this project is to use a simulated ‘virtual ecosystem’3 to assess how evolution, dispersal and a range of other potentially important factors may impact the predictive skill of SDMs.
This will improve our ability to understand how marine microbial biodiversity and biogeography will continue to be impacted by ongoing climate change.
For questions about the project, email Dr Neil Gostling:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/all-in-one-in-situ-resource-utilisation-system-crewed-mars-exploration:
This PhD project aims to develop an all-in-one in-situ resource utilisation system for future crewed Mars exploration missions, and explore the feasibility of using non-thermal plasma for:
Securing water, oxygen, and fuel is one of the key technical challenges in long duration space missions because they are crucial to keep astronauts alive and ensure a safe journey to our home planet, Earth.
However, it is not feasible to carry all required amounts of these resources for the entire duration of the mission.
Moreover, the resupply missions for these resources are very expensive.
In this project, the candidate will develop a novel all-in-one ISRU system using non-thermal plasma.
Previously, the University of Southampton has developed a plasma micro-bubble water reactor which can remove the 99.8% of chemical contaminants and achieve 8-log reduction against biological contaminants without using any filters and disinfectants.
In addition, non-thermal plasma can be used to dissociate CO2 thus utilising rocket fuel and oxygen from Martian atmosphere.
The project will closely collaborate with the School of Biological Sciences at the Faculty of Environmental and Life Science.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ecological-role-of-offshore-artificial-structures:
Energy production in the global oceans through renewables and hydrocarbons is critical for human society and continues to expand.
Complex structures are routinely installed in the marine environment including pipelines, cables and other infrastructure.
These structures are eventually removed (decommissioning), something that is particularly prevalent at present for offshore oil and gas industry infrastructure.
Offshore infrastructure alters ecological structure and functioning through habitat provision, increased biomass and enhanced connectivity, and supports species of conservation importance.
Assemblages supported by artificial structures vary over a range of spatial scales from regional (e.g.
between ocean basins) to fine scales (e.g.
location on the structure) and on temporal scales related to the age of the structure and stage of succession.
There is increasing policy debate about best practice for permitting structure installation and removal, with major differences in approach across the world.
There is urgent need for scientific evidence on the role of artificial structures to support this.
This project will advance our understanding of how fauna associated with offshore structures changes over different spatial scales (e.g.
ocean basins or depth gradients) and over time, through repeat observations.
It will focus on subsea pipelines, which are common structures that cover broad spatial scales in open ocean.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Andrew Gates:
Email: arg3@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/effect-embankment-subgrade-weathering-railway-track-performance:
The railway is at the heart of Britain’s economy and touches the lives of millions of people daily.
Future success relies on it becoming more resilient and more cost and carbon efficient, and on improving its service to passengers.
High capacity, high speed inter-urban rail for passengers and freight is of major importance around the world.
Increased capacity on new and existing routes is urgently needed to decarbonise land transport and improve economic efficiency.
However, the performance of the railway substructure in the UK is deteriorating with climate change, leading to emergency line closures and severe speed limits, and a consequent loss of timetable reliability.
You will investigate the effect of embankment and subgrade weathering on track performance.
It is now generally accepted that, in addition to the effects of the gradual equilibration of pore water pressures (often a loss of suction) over the decades following construction, infrastructure earthworks suffer gradual deterioration through weathering type effects.
Mechanisms currently thought to be at least partly responsible include desiccation and cracking of a near surface zone, chemical weathering of the exposed surface, a gradual loss of residual suction in clay cycled between certain limits of water content, and a loss of material strength with strain (strain softening).
Building on and working with the ACHILLES programme , the project will explore the impact of these weathering mechanisms on the efficacy of an earthwork or subgrade as a railway track support, and the resulting effects on track capability and performance.
Enjoying the best of both worlds, you will be part funded by Network Rail (NR) and work alongside a world-leading research team at the new National Infrastructure Laboratory in Southampton.
You will be a member of a small cohort of doctoral students working with NR in the research group that leads the UK Rail Research and Innovation Network (UKRRIN) Centre of Excellence in Infrastructure.
You will be supervised jointly by the University and NR, with opportunities to spend periods of time in NR offices and on site, and enhance your future employability.
Your PhD research outputs are likely to lead quickly to real world trials and potential adoption into standards and practice.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £27,000 tax-free each year for up to 4 years.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor William Powrie, Geotechnical Research Group.
Email: wp@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/efficient-whole-life-anchoring-systems-offshore-floating-renewables:
This PhD offers you the opportunity to tackle the urgent real-world challenge of developing efficient deep water anchoring systems for offshore floating renewable energy infrastructure.
You will also have the opportunity to work as part of a vibrant research group focused on a range of offshore engineering challenges, and engage with a range of industry partners.
Decarbonisation of our energy supply to meet UK and international Net Zero targets by 2050 requires rapid expansion of the offshore renewable energy industry.
New, efficient and reliable anchoring systems are needed to support future floating offshore renewable energy infrastructure which will operate further from shore in deeper waters, where high energy wind resources are located.
The emerging concept of ‘whole-life’ geotechnical behaviour is also unlocking new anchoring design approaches.
Whole-life changes in seabed strength during the system life offer the potential for new design efficiencies.
In this PhD research project, you will develop new concepts for the anchoring design of floating renewable facilities, harnessing beneficial ‘whole-life’ responses of the seabed.
You will undertake physical (element and model centrifuge scale) experiments, taking advantage of the Geomechanics Laboratory and Geotechnical Centrifuge Facilities on Boldrewood Innovation Campus.
You will use the experimental data to develop numerical models of more efficient anchor behaviour.
In addition, you will integrate the anchor response into existing mooring-floater models to capture the connected and improved full-floating response of offshore floating renewable energy devices.
This PhD project forms part of the activities of the Royal Academy of Engineering Research Fellowship held by Dr Kwa.
You will join the Centre of Excellence for Intelligent and Resilient Ocean Engineering (IROE), supported through the Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Emerging Technologies scheme.
You will have access to the EPSRC Supergen Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) Hub, providing you with a team of diverse and energetic researchers to become part of.
The project will enable you to develop your engineering skills in geomechanics and collaborate with industry.
The outcomes of this project are expected to be taken up by the offshore renewable energy sector and therefore have direct impact on the industry by improving anchor and full-floating system design methods.
A UK First class or high 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent , in civil engineering or a related discipline, and an enthusiasm for further study in soil mechanics and geotechnical engineering.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £18,622 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
For an initial conversation, email Dr Katherine Kwa (k.a.kwa@soton.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/electrochemical-sensing-of-the-sea-surface-microlayer:
The sea surface microlayer (SML) is the key interface between the oceans and the atmosphere.
This is where atmospheric gases enter the ocean, where atmospheric particles deposit, where byproducts of biological activity accumulate, where pollutants concentrate (e.g.
microplastics), where radioactive particles deposit and where oil slicks reside.
Despite its importance, its physical and chemical properties remain poorly known because it is very difficult to probe and sample accurately.
Its thickness is ill-defined with reported figures ranging from tens of nm to mm; its viscosity, conductivity, chemical composition, and biological make up are virtually unknown.
Even sampling the SML is challenging, let alone monitoring the composition continuously.
Hence, there is a strong need to develop new physical methods and instrumentation to probe the SML.
The project proposes to develop individually addressable microelectrode arrays to perform in situ measurements at the air-sea water interface.
These microelectrodes will be used to perform:
For questions about the project, contact Dr Guy Denuault.
Email: gd@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/engagement-with-nature-among-children-from-minority-ethnic:
Research has shown that children from black, Asian and other minority ethnic backgrounds are less likely to spend time outdoors and engage with nature than children from white backgrounds.
This ESRC South Coast Doctoral Partnership project aims to work with children from specific ethnic minority communities.
You will focus on:
You’ll construct a theoretical framework, which draws on theories of pedagogy, social justice, scientific literacy and engaging with nature.
You should share the same or similar background to identify with the existing issues in communities and understand the views on actual or perceived lack of access to nature and local green spaces.
It's desirable that you have:
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Marcus Grace.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/enhancing-uav-manoeuvres-control-using-distributed-sensor:
We are looking for a talented and motivated PhD student to develop flight-control methods to increase manoeuvrability of Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles (UAVs).
In the last decade UAV systems have experienced significant development and by 2050, UAV-based services are estimated to create markets worth over £600 billion.
These services are expected to range from delivery of goods and medical supplies to inspection and maintenance of energy infrastructure.
To reach their full potential UAV systems need to safely operate in complex environments, where external perturbations (for example, wind gusts, obstacle avoidance, clutter environment) are difficult to sense and predict.
Operating in such environments requires agile manoeuvring but conventional controllers limit the exploitable operational envelope of these aircraft.
Your PhD will address this by integrating distributed sensing and nonlinear flight control techniques.
In this project you will assess the performance of different flight control strategies that use distributed sensing to achieve agile UAV manoeuvring.
You’ll gain experience working with 3 novel technologies to enhance agile UAV manoeuvring: bio-inspired distributed sensing, machine-learning-based flight control and wind tunnel dynamic testing.
You will use an in-house bio-inspired distributed sensing system, which enables in-flight estimation of aerodynamic states and loads.
You will apply machine learning to develop flight controllers that can fully exploit the information from the distributed sensing arrays.
You will be able to develop and simulate the performance of your algorithms with our high-performance computing facility, Iridis.
Lastly, you'll use the R J Mitchell Wind Tunnel to conduct wind tunnel dynamic testing.
This will enable you to model and characterise your design and to test and evaluate your flight controllers under real aerodynamic conditions.
As a PhD student at the University of Southampton you will join the Computational Engineering and Design Group (CEDG).
You will work closely with Soton UAV, our world leading drone research lab, benefiting from training in the latest drone technologies.
A UK 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent .
If you have a general question, email our doctoral college (feps-pgr-apply@soton.ac.uk) .
For an initial conversation, email Dr Sergio Araujo-Estrada, Computational Engineering and Design Research Group, Email: S.Araujo-Estrada@soton.ac.uk , Tel: +44 (0) 2380 59 2215.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ensuring-the-safety-security-of-autonomous-cyber-physical:
Autonomous systems  such as self-driving cars, drones, autonomous boats, unmanned underwater vehicles,  potentially help to reduce the costs and protect humans from hazardous situations.
In situations where close collaboration between multiple assets is required across different operational domains, ensuring the safety and security of the complex multi-component systems is essential to allow different assets to successfully complete their individual tasks.
Secure communications which can influence the safety of missions as well as other safety conditions must be considered as early as possible.
Applications are invited for a fully funded PhD studentship to analyse and develop frameworks to ensure the trustworthiness of collaborative autonomous missions.
The work will involve applying analysis techniques as well as verification and validation methods to ensure the trustworthiness of autonomous systems and their conformance to the security and safety requirements.
This research will address challenges inherent to autonomy and intelligent systems and include:
This work could lead to new methods and techniques that could be applied to different domains that rely on autonomous systems and where safety and security guarantees are required.
Successful candidates would have strong background in computer science, mathematics, physics or Engineering, with interest in the interplay between software design and autonomous systems.
You will join and be supported by a dynamic and leading research team within the school of Electronics and Computer Science with opportunities to collaborate with world leading industrial partners.
The University of Southampton is a member of the Russell group and is ranked in the top 100 universities.
For UK students, tuition Fees and a stipend of £16,062 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr D Dghaym, CPS Research Group, please contact Dr Dana Dghaym.
Email: d.dghaym@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/environmental-genetic-determinants-of-brassica-crop-damage:
The diamondback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella, is an agricultural pest with worldwide impact on brassica crops (>$5 billion in annual damages).
Its unique glucosinolate sulfatase (GSS) enzymes allow it to specialize on cruciferous host plants by evading their glucosinolate/myrosinase defence system1.
In preliminary studies, we established that herbivory by DBM caterpillars is controlled both by environmental light and their internal daily timekeeping systems.
Moreover, the expression of DBM GSS genes exhibits circadian rhythmicity.
This project aims to elucidate abiotic and biological determinants of DBM herbivory of its host plants.
It will complement ongoing research focused on circadian control of herbivory in the DBM caterpillar by concentrating on environmentally-controlled defence mechanisms in cruciferous plants (Brassica rapa and Arabidopsis thaliana).
The following Specific Objectives will be pursued:
SO1: Identify how host plant glucosinolate production and herbivory by DBM are affected by (a) glucosinolate biosynthesis and daily timekeeping in the host plant, (b) daily environmental cycles in light and temperature.
The latter will simulate representative light/temperature cycles for the UK and explicitly explore the predicted impact of light pollution and global warming.
SO2: Identify changes in plant and DBM expression profiles that are closely associated with changes in herbivory across different environmental contexts.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Herman Wijnen:
Email: hw3a11@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/estimating-marine-mammal-abundance-distribution-from-passive:
Ecosystem function weakening due to reduction in top predator numbers is a first order global problem.
In the oceans anthropogenic activities adversely affect marine mammals, with 25% of species being threatened.
Determining their spatiotemporal distribution and abundance is central to understanding ecosystem health.
The aim of this studentship is to combine Passive Acoustic Monitoring (PAM) and satellite-linked tracking (biotelemetry) to determine marine mammal abundance and distribution.
Determining a reliable distribution of animals from these two contrasting techniques will require careful comparison, data integration and insight, as PAM techniques require identification of individual species from their call types, while in biotelemetry specific animals are tracked
Marine autonomous vehicles are effective in sensing and understanding the oceans and can be equipped with PAM devices that can record a large frequency bandwidth facilitating a high-fidelity and complete record of the marine soundscape.
Interrogating the vast datasets that are recorded by fleets of autonomous data is a current challenge.
The student will, firstly, apply and further develop machine-learning techniques to identify individual species.
Secondly, the student will leverage large marine mammal tracking datasets, as well as abundance and distribution predictions, to compare and integrate tracking, distribution and abundance data with PAM data.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Jonathan Bull:
Email: bull@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/evolution-of-symbiosis-in-a-warmer-world:
The major bio-limiting nutrients in low to mid-latitude surface waters are nitrogen and phosphorous and their availability through time likely played a major role in evolution.
In these areas of the ocean the majority of planktic foraminifera host endosymbionts, sharing their metabolic N and P with the autotrophic symbionts in exchange for organic carbon (C) in contrast to feeding on phytoplankton, other heterotrophs and particulate N (PN) when more nutrients are present.
Thus, the origination and history of these symbioses may reflect changes in the ocean’s nutrient cycling.
Despite its importance, identifying photosymbiotic and trophic?
activity in extinct species is challenging.
However, recent instrumental and methodological developments we have been involved in have allowed the measurement of the nitrogen and carbon isotopes (δ15N, δ13C) on the organic matter that lies embedded within the mineral structure of ancient foraminifera (foraminifera-bound, FB), which are distinct between symbiotic-bearing and non-symbiotic foraminifera.
Therefore, these promising new tools open a whole new archive to study symbiotic relationships and foraminifera ecology in the past.
Within this project the PhD candidate will carry out coupled analyses of foraminifera-bound nitrogen and carbon isotopes to answer the following questions:
For questions about the project, contact Alexandra Auderset.
Email:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/examining-the-evolutionary-loss-of-calcification-in:
Coccolithophores are unicellular photosynthetic organisms that build intricate calcium carbonate plates, called coccoliths, with which they surround themselves (see electron microscope image below).
They are important contributors to carbon cycling in the oceans.
Individual cells can be extracted from the natural environment and kept alive in artificial seawater, where, if the laboratory conditions are suitable, they continuously divide and multiply.
A few institutes around the world maintain “culture collections” of different coccolithophore species and strains.
Although not previously reported in the scientific literature, it is well known to those maintaining the collections that, over many generations (e.g.
within a year), coccolithophores frequently lose their ability to calcify (i.e.
to produce coccoliths) or start producing impaired (malformed) coccoliths.
One possible reason is that coccoliths provide protection against predation in nature; in the absence of predators in culture, coccoliths are therefore no longer beneficial.
This observation, if supported by this PhD work, could help us understand better why coccolithophores calcify and will add to the body of evidence that traits or functions no longer under the protection of purifying natural selection degenerate or disappear over time.
This has potential wider implications for species no longer living in natural conditions, including domesticated ones.
For questions about the project, email Professor Toby Tyrrell:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/explainable-ai-xai-for-health:
The UK's Digital Health Industry has an estimated £1.9bn turnover.
The UK government is investing in research and innovation for healthcare, promoting digital adoption, and more specifically digital tools to help people manage long-term health conditions in their own homes.
Applications are invited for a fully-funded PhD studentship to be part of the Digital Health and Biomedical Engineering research group at the School of Electronics and Computer Science (ECS).
The interdisciplinary team is focused on explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) for health.
The PhD will build artificial intelligence (AI) systems for interpreting sensors data and scanning health-related text for clinicians, not developers.
The PhD student will work closely with Professor Christopher Freeman (Applied Control) and Dr Mark Weal (Director of the Web Science Institute).
You will explore how to combine sensors data with the best evidence/practice from biomedical literature.
The project could involve a range of technologies, from natural language processing (NLP) to explainable artificial intelligence (XAI), applied to many forms of data from sensors to biomedical literature.
The research could lead to new techniques and methods for remotely monitoring the health of individuals.
Future Worlds is an accelerator to help translate research into innovations and is available for students to move their research into business.
Successful candidates would have a strong background in computer science and preference would be given to those with good understanding of electronics, machine learning (including deep learning), and knowledge engineering (including knowledge graphs).
You will join the School of Electronics and Computer Science , which is ranked 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Guardian University Guide 2022) within the University of Southampton, which is ranked in the top 1% of universities worldwide.
You will be supervised by leading researchers in their field and join an exceptional and vibrant team of postdoctoral researchers and other PhD students.
We will provide access to specialist equipment and laboratories, including our control lab and supercomputing facility.
We will also support the development of your future career and give you opportunities to expand your experience and knowledge beyond the topic of the PhD project.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/explaining-process-pattern-dynamics-of-marine-predator:
Despite being among the largest remaining ‘marine wildernesses’, the Southern Ocean is impacted by climate change and human activities.
Conservation and management of Southern Ocean ecosystems relies on understanding patterns of and processes causing the distribution of marine life, but this is logistically difficult.
Recently, the Retrospective Analysis of Antarctic Tracking Data (RAATD) [1] compiled animal tracking data for 17 seabird and marine mammal species to model Areas of Ecological Significance (AES) with the rationale that these areas represent places of high prey abundance, diversity and accessibility [1].
However, the mechanisms and dynamics of these AES have only received superficial attention – what causes these to be important areas for seabirds and marine mammals?
This PhD project will thus use the RAATD dataset [2], augmented with additional tracking data, in conjunction with various physical and biological oceanographic datasets to investigate: 1) what oceanographic processes and patterns underly AES in the Southern Ocean; and 2) the extent to which intra- and inter-annual environmental and behavioral variation affects the presence and persistence of AES in the Southern Ocean.
The results will be used to assess the possibility of dynamic and/or process-based conservation and management approaches, and to what extent AES can be forecast.
For questions about the project, email Dr Ryan R Reisinger:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/exploring-dynamics-natural-capital-coastal-barrier-systems:
Coastal barrier systems – environments typified by beaches, ridges, dunes, floodplains, and wetlands – provide a wide variety of ecosystem services, from flood protection and carbon sequestration to recreation and cultural heritage.
Some ecosystem services may be quantified in economic terms of natural capital: resources of some estimable value to people.
This project will explore and quantify how ecosystem services – and natural capital, specifically – manifest in coastal barrier systems in the UK and elsewhere around the world.
Given that there are many types of coastal barrier systems, how does their natural capital differ?
Furthermore, because coastal barrier systems are inherently dynamic, changing gradually over time and suddenly with storm events, how do stocks of natural capital change with them?
How are different types of ecosystem services, and stocks of natural capital, linked in space and time?
Where are there trade-offs in space and time between different types of ecosystem services and stocks of natural capital?
Insight into these and other fundamental questions regarding the dynamics of ecosystem services and natural capital in coastal barrier systems is essential for most effectively supporting their sustainable management and stewardship in the context of future climate change.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Eli Lazarus.
Email: E.D.Lazarus@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/exploring-the-mechanisms-of-microplastics-incorporation-their:
Recent studies have determined that >4 million tons of plastic enter the oceans each year, which are progressively broken down by natural conditions generating fragments < 5mm in size that are known as microplastics.
The effect that these particles are having on coastal ecosystems such as coral reefs is currently a subject of considerable debate.
Microplastics have been found in the mouth and among the mesenteries of coral polyps collected from reef regions as well as in plankton tows in reef waters, demonstrating that in coral reefs, microplastics are present in the food chain but also that corals might act as long-term sink of these particles through adhesion to their surface (Huang et al.
2020).
However, the effect of ingestion or incorporation of microplastics on the functioning of these habitat-founding organisms, is less clear.
Experiments under controlled conditions have shown that after a short time of exposure to plastic particles, corals exhibit cleaning mechanisms (mucus production), ingestion and/or passive overgrowth (Reichert et al., 2021).
This results in some cases in negative effects on health, such as increased bleaching and tissue necrosis.
However, our own preliminary data shows that over long-term exposure to microplastics, coral functioning is not adversely affected, emphasizing the gap in our understanding of coral incorporation, accumulation and overall response to microplastics.
This project aims to use a combination of advanced laboratory study and novel analytical approaches to plug this knowledge gap to determine the impact of microplastic pollution on coral health and reveal the mechanisms of microplastic incorporation into the coral holobiont.
For questions about the project, email Professor Sumeet Mahajan:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/exploring-electrical-activity-gut-healthcare-wellbeing:
Electrogastrography (EGG) records the electrical activity of the gut and can provide useful information about the health and wellbeing of an individual.
However, unlike the more mature technologies such as electrocardiography (ECG), electroencephalography (EEG) or electromyography (EMG), the potential of EGG has not been studied fully yet.
Applications are invited for a fully-funded PhD studentship to explore the potential of EGG in healthcare.
The initial work will involve creating a wearable prototype with mono or multi-channel electrodes that can record EGG with a good sensitivity.
Further work will investigate the feasibility of the wearable prototype by doing real user studies to understand the acceptability/usability of the device and perform data collection with a focus on healthcare and affective computing.
To understand the data and its utility, machine learning models will be developed.
Lastly, a user interface will be created to let individuals get feedback based on their gastric signals.
Working on this research will open doors to enable many applications ranging from measuring nausea in virtual reality environments to monitoring gastrointestinal disorders and diagnosing illnesses early.
The PhD student will work closely with Dr Jagmohan Chauhan (XAI for Health) and Professor Neil White (Intelligent Sensor Systems).
The research could lead to new techniques and methods for monitoring the health of individuals.
The student will be a part of a dynamic environment within the School of Electronics and Computer Science (ECS), including opportunities for commercialization of research.
Successful candidates would have a strong background in engineering and preference would be given to those with good understanding of electronics, materials and machine learning.
You will be supervised by expert researchers in their field.
We will also support the development of your future career and give you opportunities expand your experience and knowledge beyond the topic of the PhD project.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/exploring-the-trans-local-nature-of-cultural-scene:
The project aims to explore connections between cities and cultural scenes within the global economy.
Using qualitative methods and it will examine the nature of trans-local cultural scenes and the flows of ideas, people and practices.
Geographers have long been interested in trying to understand how specific neighbourhoods, scenes, and movements develop and evolve within cities.
In recent years increased attention is being paid to the connections between cities and trans-local flows of ideas, people and practices.
Translocalism is a nuanced way to ‘ground’ globalisation and to think about contemporary forms of global mobility by identifying ‘local to local’ placemaking connections and processes.
To date, studies have focused on specific cases and forms of trans-local flows including:
However, there is still scope to explore the mechanisms that underpin trans-local flows.
In cities such as London, Santiago and Toronto cultural scenes help to attract residents, workers and tourists, contribute to city branding and redevelopment initiatives and have been critiqued for encouraging gentrification.
Yet, despite their purported uniqueness and authenticity, these scenes contain a remarkably similar mix of urban aesthetics (graffiti alleys), shops (record stores), movements (DIY urbanism), communities (craft collectives) and people (artists, baristas, influencers).
As vital sites for the production, curation and consumption of cultural products, these scenes are ideal places to study the creation and diffusion of knowledge, practices and values across space and the tensions between local authenticity and global uniformity.
Qualitative methods will be used and students are encouraged to develop an approach which reflects their own interests and connections.
If you have any questions about the degree application, email the graduate school.
For an initial conversation, email Dr Brian Hracs (B.J.Hracs@soton.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/facilitating-forest-restoration-to-improve-sustainability-of:
One of the global challenges is to achieve food security in the face of an expanding world population.
This challenge is particularly relevant to PNG, where 85% of the population depend on swidden agriculture, within the third largest area of tropical forest worldwide.
A key part of the swidden agricultural cycle is the fallow period.
Due to increased demand for agricultural plots because of population growth, fallow periods are reducing.
One approach to adapting to this could be to speed up the ecological processes that take place during the fallow period by facilitating soil and forest restoration.
This would likely involve: (1) Quantifying biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, particularly below-ground, across a range of ages of fallow plots; (2) Testing novel ways of managing the fallow period to restore ecosystem functioning faster, e.g.
soil inoculations or planting cover crops; (3) Investigating whether and which fallow management methods are likely to be adopted by local farmers using socio-ecological surveys; and (4) Given results for (2) and (3), determining which methods of fallow management are most likely to enable plots to be reused successfully after a shorter fallow period.
The student tackling this project will accomplish original science in a tropical ecosystem, alongside delivering feasible adaptations to address a challenge faced by many tropical countries.
For questions about the project, email Dr Becky Morris:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/faulting-fluids-geohazards-within-subduction-zone-forearcs:
The project involves study of the faulting within subduction zone forearcs and associated fluids using seismic reflection and other datasets.
Slip on the subduction plate-bounding fault is known to generate large magnitude earthquakes and tsunami, but also produces internal deformation through slip on many faults within the forearc, but these have not previously been systematically studied.
The main aims are to understand how these different fault systems develop, how strain is distributed through a forearc, and the role faulting plays in controlling fluid flow within such systems.
Gas hydrates and mud diapirism are common at many of these margins and the interaction between faulting and fluid trapping and fluid flow in these environments will be explored.
Improved understanding of the development of thrust faults, and other fault types, will provide important data on how faulting affects the potential for fluid storage, including CO 2 storage for decarbonisation and trapping of hydrocarbon resources.
This project is also relevant to our improved understanding of geohazards in terms of how fluids affect fault slip, generating earthquakes and tsunami, and marine slope failure, which can impact seafloor infrastructure.
Example subduction zones to be used in the project are:
For questions about the project, contact Professor Lisa Mcneill.
Email: lcmn@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/faulting-magmatism-fluid-flow-during-volcanic-rifting-in-east:
Oceanic islands are often regarded as key early indicators or microcosms of the impacts of global heating, but they also are impacted by a wider range of human impacts, including introduction of invasive species, accelerated soil erosion, and pollution.
This accelerated human impact, particularly from the 1950s during the “Great Acceleration” of global anthropogenic impacts (the beginning of the proposed Anthropocene epoch), is overprinted however on centuries of earlier human impact and natural environmental change [1].
Local sedimentary systems record evidence of these changes in their morphology, sediments, chemistry and fossils [2], and are key archives of longer-term and more recent human impacts and environmental changes.
This project will examine the use of recent sedimentary deposits from around the Hawaiian archipelago in identifying the putative Anthropocene, and distinguishing it from earlier sedimentary, geochemical and biological variability.
In effect, it will identify whether there is a clear trajectory in the sedimentary record that shows that envelopes of Holocene variability have been left behind, and assess the implications of this for future environmental management in the Hawaiian archipelago and similar island systems.
For questions about the project, email Dr Derek Keir:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/fingerprinting-environmental-releases-from-nuclear-facilities:
Identifying the source of nuclear materials in the environment rapidly and with minimal sample processing is a key objective in the field of nuclear forensics.
Characterisation of these materials is essential in the responsive management and risk assessment of both authorised and accidental discharges of radioactive materials to the environment.
Rapid techniques for the identification and characterisation of hot particles in environmental matrices is of fundamental importance to this objective.
Laser ablation techniques offer significant potential for the analysis of elemental distribution at the micron scale.
However, they are limited to being semi-quantitative due to matrix-related variability in ablation efficiencies.
This project focuses on developing laser ablation mass spectrometry techniques (LA-ICPMS, TOF-ICPMS) for the rapid characterization of particles released from nuclear facilities, and from uranium mining and processing facilities.
The project focuses on developing effective approaches to correct for variable ablation efficiency across diverse matrices.
Working closely with UK and European partners, and with access to comprehensive archive of materials, the project will develop new methods for the rapid elemental and isotopic analysis of fuel and fuel cladding debris (and other “hot” particles), high temperature glasses and composites, and U-rich particulates and demonstrate their application in a nuclear forensics context.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Andrew Cundy.
Email: A.Cundy@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/flexible-hybrid-thermoelectric-materials-for-wearable-energy:
The proposed project is aimed at developing a new generation of micro thermoelectric (TE) generators capable of being integrated into textiles for powering wearable electronic systems.
Electronic textiles (e-textiles or smart fabrics) is an exciting new platform technology for wearables.
Despite the explosive growth of wearable technology, the majority of wearable and e-textile devices are still powered by rigid batteries that require frequent recharging and replacement.
A possible solution for the realization of self-powered wearable devices is the generation of power from body heat using flexible, textile-based thermoelectric (TE) generators.
TE devices have the ability to convert heat directly into useful electricity based on the Seebeck effect.
TE devices have many advantages such as solid-state operation with no moving parts, zero-emission, silent operation, vast scalability and high reliability with no maintenance and long operating lifetimes.
Despite these merits there are a number of drawbacks of existing TE generators which include low efficiency, large size, brittleness and inflexibility as they are fabricated onto rigid substrates.
Researchers have demonstrated harvesting sufficient energy from body heat to power a wireless ECG system using such modules but the lack of flexibility means it is not a practical solution.
To overcome these limitations, the aim of the current project is to produce a micro thermoelectric generator on textiles or other flexible substrates and employ low-cost, room temperature scalable electrodeposition approaches coupled with screen printing of thermoelectric inks.
The flexible nature of these devices will enable a practical solution to the application in e-textiles and clothing for applications in defence, healthcare and sports.
You will be based in the School of Electronics and Computer Science which is ranked 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Guardian University Guide 2022).
You will work in the Chemistry Department to develop the electroplated nanowires which will be subsequently blended into a polymer composite for screen printing in the Printed Electronics and Materials Lab in ECS.
You will be supervised by world-leading researchers in their field and join an exceptional and vibrant team of postdoctoral researchers and other PhD students.
Successful candidates would have a strong background in electrochemistry and preference would be given to those with a good understanding of functional materials and polymer composites.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/floating-hydrokinetic-power-converter:
Power generation from renewable energy sources is a prime concern for the technology development of the next decades.
Tidal and river hydrokinetic power is a huge, but so far hardly tapped resource which has the additional advantage of being highly predictable.
In this project, you will develop a third generation hydrokinetic power converter for application in tidal currents and rivers.
The generation of electricity from the power contained in fast flowing water currents still constitutes a challenge.
hydrokinetic power converters (HKPCs) must be efficient and cost-effective in terms of construction, operation and maintenance.
They must also be able to deal with difficult environments.
Flow-augmented floating waterwheels here have several advantages over turbines:
Big Moon Power (BMP) Inc , of Salt Lake City, Utah has developed this technology already for application in very fast tidal currents of up to 5.5 m/s flow velocity.
The large majority of the world wide resource however lies in the velocity range from 1.5 to 2.5 m/s.
Since the kinetic energy of water is a cubic function of the flow velocity, the energy density in these sites is considerably smaller.
New technological developments are therefore necessary to be able to exploit this resource.
The aim of this project is to develop this technology.
In this project, you will start to introduce several novel features such as a diffuser or a multi-bladed wheel to improve efficiency and reduce costs.
The technological development will be conducted through the development and application of theoretical models, and through physical model tests and experiments.
It is expected that during the project, more potential improvements can be identified and investigated.
A resource study will allow to quantify the potential in rivers and tidal currents world wide.
For this project we would like to employ a student with a civil or mechanical engineering degree (BEng or MEng) and who:
The project runs in cooperation with, and is co-financed by BMP Inc.
Please check our WEEG website , and our laboratory Facebook page .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/glacial-sedimentology-associated-subglacial-hydrology:
The subglacial hydrological system modulates ice dynamics and is a vital component in understanding how glaciers respond to climate change.
Recent work has suggested that soft-bedded glacier (such as the unstable West Antarctic Ice streams) have a braided subglacial hydrology, whilst traditional models argue for a channelized hydrology.
The difference in hydrology is important as it is part of the understanding of the rate of glacier velocity and hence sea-level rise.
If soft-bedded glaciers have a braided hydrology, what would this look like in terms of glacial sedimentology from both modern and Quaternary environments?
This project would investigate sites from Iceland and UK Quaternary sites to develop a model of subglacial braided system sedimentology.
This model will be developed in Iceland and the UK using a variety of techniques These will be tested by using a variety of techniques including the use of ‘Planet Lab’ images and UAV survey to carry out offset (or intensity) tracking, a well-established method for deriving displacements from repeat imagery to calculate velocity, to map the glacial geomorphology, as well as sedimentological logging.
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent , in any Earth or environmental science discipline.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Jane Hart.
Email: J.K.Hart@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/green-sustainable-internet-of-things:
The Internet of Things (IoT) is changing the way we live, work, and interact with our environment.
In order to realise its predicted scale of trillions of devices, while also supporting global green energy targets, sustainable technologies are required throughout the stack.
This includes everything from efficient energy storage and generation, semiconductor devices, and compute, through to green communications and networking, efficient data processing, and edge intelligence.
Applications are invited for a fully funded PhD studentship studying aspects of these future green and sustainable IoT devices and systems.
It will focus on and cut across:
The members of the supervisory team will be selected from the Centre for IoT and Pervasive Systems , and matched to the specific focus of the research project, and interests of the student.
The application of the work will be aligned with the activities of the centre and may involve industrial partners looking to translate the research into innovations.
This could target application domains in the area of sustainability, such as monitoring electrical power systems, efficient industrial processes, or a circular economy.
Successful candidates would have a strong background in electronic engineering, computer science, or a related discipline.
You will join the School of Electronics and Computer Science which is ranked 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Guardian University Guide 2022), within the University of Southampton which is ranked in the top 1% of universities worldwide.
You will be supervised by world leading researchers in their field and join an exceptional and vibrant team of postdoctoral researchers and other PhD students.
We will support the development of your future career and give you opportunities to expand your experience and knowledge beyond the topic of the PhD project.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/how-do-antimicrobial-peptides-alter-t-cell-cytokine-production:
This project will use a variety of immunology, molecular biology and data-driven approaches to work out how antimicrobial peptides affect T cell function, and what this means for disease.
Antimicrobial peptides are released by neutrophils, mast cells and epithelial cells during infectious and inflammatory disease.
They have many effects on innate and adaptive immune cells.
We have recently shown that one antimicrobial peptide in particular, cathelicidin, drives differentiation of the Th17 subset of T cells ( Minns Nature Communications 2021 ).
We have also shown that this peptide-induced T cell differentiation causes autoimmune disease in a model of Multiple Sclerosis ( Smith PLOS Biology 2022 ).
This is exciting because it has shown that these ubiquitous peptides may have far greater impact on adaptive immunity than we had previously imagined.
Now, we want to investigate this process in much greater depth.
We know that cathelicidin gets into T cells and alters cytokine expression – particularly IL-17F and IFN-γ.
We do not know how this occurs or which signalling pathways are involved.
In this project we will use a variety of techniques to decipher how peptide exposure alters the pathways leading to production of these cytokines.
We will work out what this means for a number of models of disease – including autoimmune, infection and cancer models.
The student will use techniques including multi-colour and spectral flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, ELISA, isolation and culture of T cells and analysis of RNA sequencing data.
Animal handling and in vivo models of disease will be involved in the project.
They will be fully trained in all these techniques as well as in statistics, coding, presentation skills, writing skills, and data management.
You'll need:
We encourage students from a diverse range of disciplines to apply.
This studentship is only available for home students.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £17,688 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
Apply now by email
You need to include:
Email: fels-gradschool@soton.ac.uk
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Emily Gwyer Findlay.
Email: E.Gwyerfindlay@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/how-do-calcifying-marine-organisms-grow:
The shells of planktonic marine calcifying organisms represent one of the largest long-term carbon sinks on Earth’s surface and are an important archive of geochemical systems that record past climate change.
As such, and because the response of these organisms to anthropogenic climate change may be an important carbon cycle feedback, it is vitally important to understand how these organisms calcify.
There is growing evidence that most marine calcifying organisms produce crystalline calcite or aragonite (CaCO 3 ) via a ‘precursor’ phase, usually amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC).
However, no laboratory experiment has succeeded in producing CaCO 3 via an amorphous precursor with the characteristics of biological marine calcites.
Solving this issue would constrain an important component of the biomineralisation process and enable us to understand the sensitivity of calcification to past, present, and future environmental change.
This project will experimentally determine the physical and chemical conditions required to form calcite via ACC with the geochemical and structural properties of that of marine organisms.
Ultimately, the project will build this information into a biomineralisation model to help mechanistically underpin our understanding of the extent to which marine organisms will be impacted by future climate change and ocean acidification.
For questions about the project, contact Dr David Evans.
Email: d.b.j.evans@gmail.com

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/how-do-neutrophils-alter-t-cell-metabolism:
This project will examine how the innate and adaptive immune systems interact, through analysis of how neutrophils affect the metabolism of nearby T cells.
The student will use flow cytometry, RNA sequencing, ELISA, Seahorse metabolic analysis and fluorescence imaging to understand this question.
Neutrophils are the first responders to inflammatory disease and are present in huge numbers in blood and tissues.
During disease they interact closely with T cells, which alters the T cell survival and function.
We have previously shown, for the first time, that human T cells respond to neutrophils differently depending on their activation status ( Minns Frontiers Immunology 2021 ).
We have also shown that neutrophil release of antimicrobial peptides profoundly affects T cell cytokine production ( Minns Nature Communications 2021 ).
Now, we want to understand how neutrophil exposure alters T cell metabolism.
The metabolic profiles of T cells exposed to neutrophils, or their peptides, will be studied and the impact of alterations on T cell behaviour will be determined.
You will use techniques including multi-colour and spectral flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, ELISA, isolation and culture of T cells and Seahorse metabolic analysis.
You will be fully trained in all these techniques as well as in:
You will be based for the majority of the time at Southampton General Hospital , with Dr Gwyer Findlay , but up to 8 weeks each year will be spent at the University of Birmingham with Dr Sarah Dimeloe .
All expenses relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence in Birmingham will be covered in full in addition to the stipend.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £16.062 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years, funded by the Royal Society .
You'll need to cite project reference: EGF22-2.
You must include:
We will hold interviews over Zoom in December - date to be arranged.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/how-well-can-we-predict-future-changes-in-biodiversity-using:
For questions about the project, email Dr Ben Ward:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/hydrant-dynamics-for-acoustic-leak-detection-in-water-pipes:
Would you like to help the UK eliminate leakage-related water loss?
We’re offering a 3.5-year fully funded PhD to investigate the dynamics of hydrants to enhance acoustic-based water leak detection.
Leakages from pipes pose a significant environmental, economic and health problem in the water industry.
The UK is determined to tackle this problem so has recently set up the Zero Leakage 2050 initiative.
Acoustic methods are widely used for leak detection but rely on limited access points.
The waves emitted by leaks are recorded by sensors usually mounted on hydrants.
However, their complex dynamic behaviour poses a challenge in interpreting the data.
You will focus on uncovering and quantifying the contribution of hydrant dynamics in leak detection setups.
Your work will improve hydrant design and enhance leak detection capabilities, and have an impact on industry-sensing practices and guidelines.
As well as gaining skills in dynamics, signal processing and experimentation, you'll make a valuable contribution to an untapped field of research using theoretical and experimental approaches, including field measurements.
You’ll work in the Dynamics Group of the Institute of Sound and Vibration Research (ISVR) at Southampton.
ISVR is at the forefront of leak detection research and shows steady growth in this area.
You will be a part of the Sustainable Infrastructure and Cities Centre for Doctoral Training which includes multi-disciplinary researchers from across the entire faculty.
The experimental work will be conducted at ISVR labs, the Future Towns Innovation Hub at Chilworth Science Park, and live industrial test sites.
The project is funded by UK Water Industry Research (UKWIR), the water industry research procurement body in the UK.
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent in engineering, mathematics or physics.
Non-UK students may apply.
Full funding may be available or a small top-up from the student may be required
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Jen Muggleton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/if-black-lives-matter-do-asian-lives-matter-too:
We are offering a fully funded PhD project in collaboration with the Economics and Social Research Council's (ESRC) South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership, to investigate the social impact of the successful ‘Black Lives Matter’ campaign.
The ‘Black Lives Matters’ movement has won support from many business organisations.
In this project, you’ll evaluate how effective race-specific campaigns are in improving the wellbeing of target populations, such as the black community.
You’ll also explore whether other ethnic minority groups, such as Asians and East Europeans, feel more hope and solidarity or more excluded and marginalised by these race-specific campaigns.
Would this affect their support of businesses who engage in race-specific activism?
This project takes a multi-disciplinary approach across:
The ideal applicant will have an understanding of advanced quantitative methodologies including secondary data analysis, surveys and qualitative experiments.
This is a supervisor led PhD project for equality, diversity and inclusion.
You'll also have an understanding of advanced quantitative methodologies including secondary data analysis, surveys and qualitative experiments.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Paurav Shukla.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/illuminating-luciferin-bioluminescence-in-dinoflagellates:
Noctiluca scintillans (the sea sparkle) and other dinoflagellates are responsible for most bioluminescence in European marine environments and familiar blue-glow blooms.
The ecological role of dinoflagellate bioluminescence is currently not clear, and its apparent importance in marine food webs highlights the need to understand its environmental regulation and molecular underpinning.
Fundamental gaps in knowledge include how bioluminescence varies within natural populations and how dinoflagellates produce luciferin.
We hypothesize that:
Three innovative approaches will be used:
Identifying new bioluminescence-associated genes by their unique day/night expression profile, specifically oxygenases that could synthesize dinoflagellate luciferin in a single catalytic step, followed by their functional assessment after heterologous expression.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Jan Janouskovec.
Email: J.Janouskovec@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/imaging-quantum-materials-with-an-xfel:
Quantum materials can often exhibit novel and multifunctional properties due to strong coupling between lattice, charge, spin and orbital degrees of freedom.
When perturbed into an excited state, non-equilibrium phases often emerge on the femtosecond timescale.
They include light-induced superconductivity, terahertz-induced ferroelectricity and ultra-fast solid-phase structural transformations.
Understanding non-equilibrium phases in quantum materials is of great interest for the development of next generation technologies and to better understand the underlying mechanisms.
To further understand these hidden phases, tools to probe quantum materials with femto-second time-resolution are required.
X-ray Free Electron Laser (XFEL) facilities such as the European XFEL and the Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS) XFEL are unprecedented in providing ultra-short pulses of coherent x-rays that make it possible to measure ultra-fast dynamics in quantum materials simultaneously with nanoscale spatial resolution and femto-second time resolution.
While preliminary work has begun on the use of XFELs to study quantum behaviour in materials, there are a wide range of strongly correlated materials that exhibit novel behaviour that is not well understood.
This project will investigate structural phenomena in nanoscale quantum materials using time-resolved Bragg coherent diffraction imaging (BCDI) at various XFEL facilities.
Prototypical material systems include but are not limited to perovskites such as bismuth ferrite and binary oxides such as vanadium dioxide.
The overall aim is to directly observe atomic motions during the event of a quantum phase transition.
The ability to quantitatively observe atomic motions within the transition state region where atoms exchange nuclear configurations will greatly facilitate our understanding of the physical processes.
A UK bachelor's degree with 2:1 honours, or it's international equivalent
A background in physics, materials science or inorganic chemistry is desirable but not essential.
You'll also benefit from access to the European XFEL, Swiss XFEL, SACLA XFEL and PAL XFEL.
If you have a general question, email our admissions team (feps-pgr-apply@soton.ac.uk)
For an initial conversation, email Dr Marcus Newton (M.C.Newton@soton.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/impact-of-neuromodulating-drugs-on-gut-microbiome-homeostasis:
This project will employ a range of advanced microbial ecology and molecular biology techniques to evaluate the impact of nervous system-targeted drugs on the human gut microbiome composition and activity.
It will also investigate the role of the microbiome on the efficacy of neuromodulating drugs.
The human intestinal tract is home to trillions of microorganisms, commonly referred to as the gut microbiota.
Alterations of the gut microbiome are associated with neurological conditions including autism spectrum disorder, depression, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease, and accumulating evidence demonstrates that the gut microbiota and its metabolites affect brain function and behaviour via the microbiota–gut–brain axis.
Therapy for neurological diseases such as Parkinson's or depression often include the use of drugs that modulate the levels of key neurotransmitters in the brain.
As these drugs are taken orally, they interact with thousands of microbial species present in the gut.
Indeed, medication, including nervous system drugs, have been shown to have a major influence on gut microbiome composition.
However, the direct impact of neuromodulating drugs on the metabolism of human gut microbiota is unclear.
This project aims to evaluate the impact of nervous system-targeted drugs on the human gut microbiome composition and activity.
We will also investigate how the microbiome influences host response to nervous system-targeted drugs.
This is an exciting opportunity to break new ground in our understanding of how drugs and bugs interact and can potentially lead to the identification of key microbiome players that can be manipulated to augment the efficacy of current therapies for neurological disease.
We are looking for a student with a strong interest in microbiology and who is keen to learn some bioinformatics.
To tackle the proposed research questions, you will receive training in and apply a range of microbial ecology and advanced molecular biology techniques including anaerobic cultivation, bacterial genetics, use of tracers to detect microbial activity, fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), as well as metagenomics and bioinformatics.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Fatima Pereira.
Email: F.C.Pereira@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/impact-of-pharmaceuticals-in-the-marine-environment:
The discharge of pharmaceuticals into rivers from wastewater treatment plants is well established and deleterious effects have been reported in freshwater biota.
River discharge, along with direct input into coastal regions has seen the rise in the concentrations of drugs in estuarine and coastal water which are emerging as contaminants of growing concern.
To date, very little work has been carried out on the effects of pharmaceuticals on estuarine or marine organisms [1].
Many human drug targets are conserved within other phyla (algae, invertebrates, non-human vertebrates) [2] and thus they have the potential to exert an effect.
Currently we do not know which marine phyla are more susceptible or which class of pharmaceuticals may pose the biggest risk.
A concern would be that some algae may be particularly sensitive with primary production being affected.
Many drugs are ionisable with uptake rates being affected by very small changes in pH [3].
Ocean acidification will inevitably affect bioavailability and uptake.
Within marine fishes several tissues (e.g., eye, swim bladder) rely on localized changes in blood pH to release oxygen from hemoglobin that may well alter tissue specific ionisable drug distribution.
Thus, the project aims to use a suite of techniques from bioinformatics through to ecophysiology to assess which marine organism may be sensitive to pharmaceuticals and which class of drugs we should be most concerned about.
Find out how to make an application by visiting the National Oceanography Centre's Graduate School apply pages .
For questions about the project, email Dr Nicolas Bury:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/improving-subsea-navigation-for-long-term-autonomy:
In this project, you will develop methods for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) to navigate precisely without external support for indefinite periods of time using sensor information and map matching techniques.
Precise navigation is a fundamental requirement for robotic competence.
However, as Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) such as GPS are unavailable in water, current navigation solutions rely on separate ship or seafloor instrumentation that is costly and limits efficiency gains.
You will investigate how Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) techniques can minimise navigation errors by using visual and/or terrain-based observations of the environment, matching these to elements stored in self-generated or pre-loaded maps.
Although modern SLAM solutions are satisfactory for autonomous robotic missions that cover 100km trajectories and last days, they become computationally unsolvable as survey missions grow in duration and extent.
With advances in high-density energy storage and efficient propulsion systems, missions covering 1000km+ and lasting several months are becoming mechanically possible.
We need better SLAM frameworks to match the mechanical developments and identify the:
In this industry funded PhD, you will have access to data from over 100 previous AUV missions.
You'll develop simulations, and perform practical experiments with state-of-the-art AUV platforms and experimental facilities at the university and Sonardyne International Ltd.
There will also be opportunities to participate in field work deploying robotic systems at sea during your PhD.
You will receive regular support from the supervisory team, work in a group of underwater robotics researchers, and benefit from strong collaborative links with leading international marine robotics groups including:
An additional research and training support grant of £2000 per annum for research related expenditures.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Blair Thornton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/information-theoretic-methods-for-sensor-management:
This project will focus on developing algorithms to allow autonomous systems to make decisions based on information they receive from sensors.
Your work will be applied to distributed systems which operate in challenging environments.
Since the emergence of the Internet of Things and other extensive sensor networks, algorithms that can efficiently manage communication, sensing, and energy resources are critical for effective inference under various limitations and/or availability constraints.
In this project, you'll develop intelligent sensing that will enable continuous and adaptive surveillance in dynamic environments.
You'll build on the work of our research group, which looked at multi-targeting tracking and distributed sensor fusion, to develop new mathematical models and algorithms for autonomous systems.
You will explore methods for allocating sensor resources and refining the knowledge of the scene.
The algorithms you develop will be based on mathematical concepts from probability theory, information theory, and statistics, with some connections to particle physics.
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent in one of the following subject areas:
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Daniel Clark.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/installation-effect-on-the-noise-of-small-high-speed-fans:
At the heart of Dyson products, such as vacuum cleaners, hair dryers and hand dryers, is an efficient high-speed fan for providing high flow rates at large pressure.
However, like most fans they are also noisy.
This project is predominantly an experimental study into the investigation into the mechanisms of noise generation from this latest generation of high-speed fans.
Particular emphasis will be given to ‘installation effects’ on the noise.
Compared to their uninstalled levels, their noise is known to increase once installed in the machine.
This is because air passing through the fan, after flowing through the machine, becomes disorted and turbulent.
The project will use state-of-the-art measurement techniques.
These will characterise noise and flow with the objective of understanding the noise-generating mechanisms, and hence provide solutions for its mitigation.
The experiments will take place on a new fan rig designed and built by Dyson at the University of Southampton.
The successful PhD candidate will join the Acoustics group at the Institute of Sound and Vibration Research (ISVR).
The ISVR is recognised as one of the world’s leading centres for the investigation of sound and vibration phenomena
The School of Engineering is committed to promoting equality, diversity inclusivity as demonstrated by our Athena SWAN award.
We welcome all applicants regardless of their gender, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation or age, and will give full consideration to applicants seeking flexible working patterns and those who have taken a career break.
The University has a generous maternity policy, onsite childcare facilities, and offers a range of benefits to help ensure employees’ well-being and work-life balance.
The University of Southampton is committed to sustainability and has been awarded the Platinum EcoAward.
Regular interaction with staff at Dyson is anticipated together with visits to the company.
An undergraduate UK 2:1 honours degree in mathematics, science or engineering, or its international equivalent.
Strong mathematical skills will be an advantage.
For UK students, an enhanced stipend of £20,000 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
The studentship will be fully-funded including paid tuition fees (UK rate).
We are fortunate that we are able to pay an enhanced tax-free stipend that is significantly greater than the standard rate
Lead supervisor
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Phil Joseph, Acoustics Research Group.
Email: pfj@isvr.soton.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 2380 59 9458

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/integrated-earth-observation-eo-mapping-change-across-the-land:
Satellite data allow the assessment of historic coastal change in the context of natural variability at a global scale.
However, data resolution and types continually evolve, and no one data type or analysis can fully describe key coastal environments (i.e.
topography, bathymetry, and hydrodynamics).
While the UK is rich in coastal observations, this is not the case everywhere.
Even in observation rich environments, data are rarely automatically combined to provide a full picture of the coast.
Finding integrated Earth Observation (EO) solutions to quantify trends in coastal change, identify tipping points in the coastal state, and produce early warning of vulnerability, will support authorities as they strive to deliver sustainable management plans and healthy ecosystems.
New algorithms to integrate disparate observations are vital to enable incorporation of evolving bathymetries and habitats into coastal models, used to assess natural and anthropogenic hazards.
Developing techniques using UK sites provides the necessary validation data to confidently understand the uncertainties.
This PhD aims to integrate different EOs over regional and global scales to deliver real-time monitoring and early warning of (adverse) coastal change in a world striving to build coastal climate resilience, and to a better understand global variability in coastal change trends.
For questions about the project, email Dr Charlie Thompson:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/interconnections-of-past-greenhouse-climates:
Global warming has already reached 1°C above pre-industrial levels because of greenhouse gas emissions.
The polar regions are losing ice mass, the ocean is heating up and rainfall patterns are shifting, reducing seawater mixing and oxygenation (ventilation) and limiting oxygen supply to marine ecosystems.
To help frame predictions of Earth’s future we need datasets much longer than those possible by direct observation.
You will study past intervals of CO2-induced global warmth from the Plio-Pleistocene and Miocene.
We will focus on regions such as the Mediterranean and Arabian seas because geological records show that they are early warning sites for ocean hypoxia.
In the past, bottom waters in these semi-enclosed basins were regularly stripped of oxygen when astronomically driven warming strengthened the African and South Asian monsoons, spawning green, vegetated landscapes, reactivating ancient dry riverbeds and cutting off dust supply to the oceans.
These changes drove seawater anoxia by capping the Mediterranean with buoyant freshwaters, preventing overturning and by supercharging wind-driven upwelling and the biological pump in the Arabian Sea.
However, the response of these climate interconnections to CO2-driven global warmth is poorly understood.
You will tackle this problem by studying past warm intervals in these natural laboratories.
For questions about the project, email Professor Paul Wilson:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/investigating-igg-cell-depletion-mechanisms:
The University of Southampton invites you to apply for a PhD studentship sponsored by UCB BioPharma UK.
Antibody-based therapies have had great success in treating cancer indications via targeted depletion of pathological cells.
Antibody-dependent depletion utilises a spectrum of mechanisms to kill cells including antibody-dependant cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) and direct cell death (DCD).
It is however unclear if clinical success is governed by any specific dominant mechanism in vivo.
Therefore, for the best possible clinical outcome, a sensible approach is to develop antibodies that have broad spectrum depletion properties.
Limitations to successful depletion include the nature of the target (size, membrane proximity, internalisation, target density) and properties of the antibody (epitope, affinity, and antibody format).
Efforts to enhance depletion, such as by reducing fucosylation to increase ADCC and enhancing hexamerisation to augment CDC, have emerged as beneficial strategies to improve a specific depletion MOA.
Another unanswered question is whether mAb combinations can elicit more powerful depletion effects.
This PhD will systemically explore the relationship between specific properties of the antibody (for example: affinity, valency, isotype, glycosylation, Fc mutations), the nature of the target (for example: size, target density and epitope) and depletion mechanisms.
It will investigate mAb combinations and employ model target systems in combination with well-established antibody Fc variants to probe and differentiate between ADCC, CDC ADCP and DCD whilst also exploring unique UCB technologies designed to augment certain effector mechanisms.
The PhD will be supervised by Professor Mark Cragg and based at the University with industrial supervisory support provided by Dr.
Emma Davé and Dr.
Shirley Peters at UCB in Slough, UK.
UCB Pharma is a global biopharmaceutical company, with a focus on neurology and immunology.
UCB Biopharma UK has an excellent infrastructure and is well-equipped with state-of-the-art technologies including antibody discovery platforms capable of discovering antibodies with broad epitope diversity, and tools and methodologies to produce modified antibodies and antibody formats.
The company also offers hands-on training in multidisciplinary and intersectoral research.
UCB Pharma are highly experienced in the training of PhD students and promote equal gender opportunities.
A UK 2:1 honours degree and/or a second degree with a related master's in one of the following fields:
For UK students, £4596 tuition fees and a stipend of £17,668 tax-free each year for up to 4 years.
This studentship is funded by UCB.
You'll need to add Mark Cragg as your proposed supervisor.
Email: fmed-gradschool@soton.ac.uk
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Mark Cragg.
Email: msc@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/is-ocean-mixing-upside-down-how-mixing-processes-drive:
Since the seminal work of Walter Munk in the 1960s, oceanographers have believed that the upwelling of cold, abyssal waters that regulates the deep ocean's ability to sequester heat and carbon for decades to millennia is driven by centimetre-scale turbulent mixing associated with breaking waves in the ocean interior.
Measurements of deep-ocean turbulence over the last two decades, however, starkly contest this scenario, and instead suggest that mixing by breaking waves drives *downwelling* of abyssal waters.
Inspired by this conundrum, recent theoretical investigations have developed a tantalising alternative view of the role of mixing in sustaining deep-ocean upwelling.
In this new view (known as the ‘upside-down ocean mixing hypothesis’), upwelling is driven by highly localised turbulence within thin (typically tens of metres thick) layers near the seafloor, known collectively as the bottom boundary layer.
This project will assess the validity of this new paradigm, and figure out how it works, by analysing the first set of concurrent, systematic measurements of (1) large-scale mixing and upwelling, (2) their interior and bottom boundary layer contributions, and (3) the processes underpinning these contributions, in a representative deep-ocean basin: the Rockall Trough, in the Northeast Atlantic.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Alberto Naveira Garabato:
Email: acng@noc.soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/landing-gear-aerodynamics-aeroacoustics:
This PhD project provides a unique opportunity to work on aerodynamics and aeroacoustics of landing gears at the Airbus Noise Technology Centre (ANTC), part of the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences at the University of Southampton.
The unsteady turbulent wake generated by a deployed landing gear leads to noise radiation to the ground causing environment problems.
The turbulent wake is a challenge to model correctly and accurately in conventional computational fluid dynamics (CFD).
In this PhD project, you’ll combine experimental, CFD, and modelling techniques.
Existing models in literature are empirical and semi-empirical in nature, using empirical constants to fit standard source characteristics to specific components.
In this project, you will generate experimental data in our new Anechoic Wind Tunnel to validate and enhance a physics-based landing gear noise prediction model.
The aim is to develop a greater understanding of the role of anisotropy in turbulent wakes on fan outlet guide vane (OGV) interaction noise.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/lightweight-gas-storage-real-world-strategies-for-the-hydrogen:
Polymer matrix composites are a core light-weighting technology across virtually all transport sectors (aerospace, automotive, marine), providing a vital element of net-zero carbon objectives.
Many forms and scales of hydrogen storage will be required for a complete hydrogen economy, with highly pressured gas cylinders (in the range on 500-700bar) inevitably being required for decarbonising transport.
As part of a 10+ year track record of successful projects, the University of Southampton and Luxfer Gas Cylinders are offering a PhD post to develop innovative designs and design strategies for extremely lightweight ‘Type 4’ cylinders (cylinders using only polymer and polymer composite construction).
This project takes a fundamentally structural perspective, examining the mechanical performance of the walls and liner materials of Type 4 cylinders, and corresponding implications for gas permeability.
There will be a balance of experimental and modelling aspects, with a view to improve and validate finite element (FE) modelling of Type 4 cylinders.
The models will therefore be able to inform optimisation of current designs (reducing mass for a given level of gas containment) and inform more radical design concepts for the future.
Working as part of a well-established group of PhDs and doctoral researchers, this PhD project will focus on analysis of cylinder failure processes (leak and burst under static and cyclic conditions) via X-ray computed tomography (XCT), building on many years’ experience within the nationally and internationally recognised Southampton µ-VIS lab .
The project will involve sophisticated experimental work (e.g.
X-ray imaging and mechanical testing) using newly-installed state-of-the-art facilities .
Subject to external travel regulations, the project will involve site visits to Luxfer in the UK and North America.
A UK 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent, in one of the following disciplines:
Whilst imaging and FE working will be carried out via well-established software packages (for example: ABAQUS for FE), you should have an interest in basic coding, and have some experience in Python, MATLAB or similar scientific computing environments.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £20,062 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/machine-learning-for-multi-robot-perception-0:
We are looking for a talented PhD student (fully funded) to work on the intersection of machine learning and swarm robotics.
The goal of this PhD project is to propose a collective decision-making strategy and a learning model for robots that would lead to precise mapping of unknown environments.
Machine learning models such as generative adversarial networks can generate data (e.g.
images) that have not been measured or obsevered before.
One of the use cases for the generated data is to build novel perceptions of an unforeseen environment.
This PhD project focuses on using machine learning on a large robot swarm that have partial observations of an environment and the idea is to coordinate these models in a way that a complete picture of the environment can be constructed.
In this project, you will gain a deep understanding of:
Successful candidates would have a strong background in computer science and preference would be given to those with good understanding of machine learning, formal methods and good programming skills.
You will join the School of Electronics and Computer Science which is ranked 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Guardian University Guide 2022) within the University of Southampton which is ranked in the top 1% of universities worldwide.
You will benefit from the training and networking activities in the UKRI’s Trustworthy Autonomous Systems’ Hub and the EPSRC Smart Solutions Towards Cellular-Connected Unmanned Aerial Vehicles System (AUTONOMY) project.
We will support the development of your future career (networking with more than 100 industry partners and universities across the UK) and give you opportunities to expand your experience and knowledge beyond the topic of the PhD project.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Mohammad Soorati, AIC Research Group, Email: m.soorati@soton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/machine-learning-for-multi-robot-perception:
You will work on a collective decision-making strategy and learning model for robots that would lead to precise mapping of unknown environments.
You will work at the intersection of machine learning and swarm robotics for this fully funded PhD.
You will focus on using machine learning on a large robot swarm that have partial observations of an environment.
The aim is to coordinate these models in a way that a complete picture of the environment can be constructed.
You will gain a deep understanding of novel algorithms in machine learning, image processing and multi-robot systems.
You will join the School of Electronics and Computer Science, ranked 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Guardian University Guide 2022).
You will also be supervised by world leading researchers in their field.
You will benefit from the training and networking activities in the:
Project leader
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Mohammad Soorati.
Email: m.soorati@soton.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 1606

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/marine-ecosystem-responses-past-climate-change-oceanographic-impacts:
Earth’s oceans are warming and losing dissolved oxygen due to human activity.
Experiments on modern animals show that the combined impacts of seawater oxygen and temperature are a substantial environmental threat to animal ecosystems.
Ocean warming and deoxygenation (anoxic) events are common in the geologic record, and these ancient climate perturbations were often linked to marine extinctions.
But many questions remain unanswered.
What were the magnitudes and rates of warming and the ocean oxygenation responses?
What proportion of marine species went extinct?
Were some taxonomic or functional groups more likely to survive than others?
Most ancient climate events have been studied qualitatively by investigating extinction at the global scale to link biodiversity in the fossil record to oceanographic change.
You will combine computer models of ancient oceans/climate and ecosystems with quantitative palaeobiological methods to make predictions about the impacts of ancient climate change and then test our understanding against the fossil record.
You will study key intervals of Earth history where past climate change is suggested to have impacted marine ecosystems (e.g.
Cretaceous oceanic anoxic events) to produce some of the first direct and statistically robust tests of how ocean warming and deoxygenation have impacted animal ecosystems through Earth’s history.
Email: R.G.Stockey@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/mechanical-effects-surf-zone-in-situ-electrochemical-sensing:
The pollution of the natural environment with plastics and their subsequent role in the ecosystems, is of concern.
Plastics are ubiquitous materials which by design are extremely chemically stable and physically robust.
However, understanding their lifecycle in the oceans is part of a wider effort to assess their impact.
The breakdown of plastic in the ocean is different depending on the location.
For example, mechanical effects are thought to be significantly increased in breaking waves in the surf zone where plastics are known to concentrate.
The aim of this project is to study the effect of particle (sand) impact in the surf zone on surfaces including common plastics with the aim of understanding the conditions necessary to age and cause damage to these materials.
This will involve both lab systems and sensors deployed in the surf zone to characterize the conditions within this environment.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Peter Birkin.
Email: prb2@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/microfluidic-cell-isolation-systems-for-sepsis:
In this fully funded PhD project, you’ll develop novel microfluidic technologies for early diagnosis of sepsis.
Better treatment tools are urgently needed for blood-borne infections that can develop into sepsis, whether bacterial or fungal.
In many cases, the organisms responsible for the illness are highly resistant to drugs, which makes treating them difficult.
Choosing the most appropriate treatment is a slow process that can take days.
Health services identify the best antibiotic using an Antibiotic Susceptibility Test (AST), a technique that has not changed for decades.
The test extracts as few as 10 bacteria per ml of blood, which presents a challenge.
You will be developing a new generation of microfluidic tools to isolate the causative organisms.
Once isolated, their susceptibility to antibiotics will be tested using a recently developed rapid AST.
The PhD project is part funded through the Southampton Biomedical Research Centre and part of a long-term collaborative project with the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA).
Email: hm@ecs.soton.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 3330

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/migrant-entrepreneurship-gender-generation-context-family:
We’re looking for highly motivated students to investigate how entrepreneurship affects gender and intergenerational dynamics among migrant family firms in small towns.
This project is a collaboration between the University of Southampton and the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership.
You will work across disciplines to investigate:
You’ll have an interest in migration and/or work and employment, with knowledge of qualitative and ethnographic methods.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr María Villares-Varela.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/miniaturisation-in-fishes-evolutionary-ecological-perspectives:
Bony fishes are the most diverse group of vertebrates in terms of both species richness and body sizes, with over 30,000 species ranging from 8mm to 10m long and from <0.001g to 2,300kg.
Large fishes may seem charismatic, but the smallest fishes in ecosystems may be the most important from ecological and biodiversity perspectives.
For example, on coral reefs, the average size of adult fishes is just 45mm long, yet these small fishes form the foundations of critical food webs which support ecosystem functions.
These “miniaturised” fish species are found worldwide, among numerous phylogenetic lineages and ecosystems, from tropical river systems to the deep sea.
Although widespread among fishes, the evolution of miniaturisation appears to be a relatively demanding and recent process.
This project will explore the benefits and costs of miniaturisation by using 2D and 3D micro-CT data to compare the functional morphologies of miniature fishes with their larger relatives.
By collaborating with the Natural History Museum and using their collections, it will be possible to apply this technique across multiple extant and fossil lineages, allowing us to reveal how miniaturisation has affected the ecological roles of fishes and how it may have shaped their evolution.
Email: C.Goatley@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/modelling-high-power-fibre-laser-amplifier-stability:
Output powers have increased by more than 4 orders of magnitude in the past two decades, reaching 10kW in a single beam.
Just as modern computers contain large numbers of processor cores rather than a single high-speed core, the future for HPFLs is in the combination of multiple fibre lasers.
This would enable us to create dynamically reconfigurable structured light that changes “on the fly” depending on the specific application.
Such a digital fibre laser would not only make the UK a more prosperous nation, but also allow us to:
All-in-all make the world a better, cleaner, greener, and safer place.
The University of Southampton has recently been awarded £6million to solve the challenges associated with the creation of the digital fibre laser, and you will be part of this team effort.
You will be focussed on fundamental theoretical research with the objective of understanding the underlying optical nonlinear effects, such as transverse mode instability (TMI) and stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS), which currently severely limit the power scaling and stability of narrow-linewidth fibre amplifiers.
The root cause of TMI in high power fibres is currently unexplained, along with its interplay with acoustic waves and the effect on phase noise.
As the capabilities of your simulations develop, you will then experimentally demonstrate a multi-kw fibre laser amplifier with zero TMI and SBS.
You will be developing a wide range of modelling and analytical skills, for solving real-world physical challenges, with clear benefits to a career in theoretical modelling in academia or industry.
Your simulations will also be used to direct important experimental work associated with the general development of the digital fibre laser.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/modelling-soil-dewatering-recharge-for-cost-effective-climate:
Soil is one of the most complex and important self-assembling organo-mineral composites in the world.
All human food supply, ecosystem and infrastructure services depend on soil.
Movements of water into, within and out of soil are especially important.
In geotechnical infrastructure, it is essential to understand the processes involved in detail, both for controlling groundwater levels and pore pressures during construction, and for potentially managing soil water content to mitigate extreme cycles of seasonal wetting and drying caused by climate change.
There are particular issues that require a better understanding of soil water entry and exit processes, including:
In this project we will develop new mathematical models of soil wetting (water injection) and dewetting (water abstraction) that will enable:
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Tiina Roose ( t.roose@soton.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/modelling-the-evolution-of-adaptive-responses-to-climate:
Through increasing periods of drought, higher temperatures and extreme events, future climate change will introduce new selection pressures on species.
As many species will be unable to shift their ranges fast enough to track suitable climatic conditions[1], their ability to thrive or even to survive will depend on how well and how quickly they are able to adapt to new conditions.
Climate change vulnerability assessments are often based on forecasts from species distribution models, that project forward where current suitable climatic conditions for a given species will be found in the future.
However this fails to account for the possibility that populations can evolve adaptations to new conditions and so survive in (or near) their current range[2].
Consequently these predictions can be inaccurate, potentially leading to misplaced conservation efforts.
This PhD project will develop a forecasting framework for species ranges that includes evolutionary responses to environmental change.
We will test our approach using data from European bat species showing adaptation along climatic gradients.
Bats provide an excellent case study of adaptation in long-lived wild species because of their sensitivity to environmental change, and therefore can demonstrate the potential of our approach for forecasting future distributions for species of conservation concern.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Rebecca Hoyle:
Email: r.b.hoyle@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/nanomaterials-sensors-for-biomedicine-andor-the-environment:
The quality of treated wastewater for agriculture is under more and more stringent control - particularly heavy metal contamination.
Heavy metal contamination, such as e.g.
cadmium, copper, lead and nickel, is one of the more difficult problems of water contamination to analyse.
Analysis of water for heavy metal contamination is a slow and expensive process and usually requires the shipping of samples to distant labs with a minimum turn around time of 24 hours though routinely 3-5 days.
The standard method for heavy metal analysis of water uses the slow, expensive and cumbersome techniques of atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) or inductively-coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS).
Electrochemical water analysis, such as anodic stripping voltammetry (ASV), is attractive because it is fast, portable and inexpensive.
The aim of this PhD project is to develop a cheap electrode for the analysis of treated wastewater using functionalized nanoporous membranes.
The need for such a sensor is clear and the low cost and ease of use of the proposed sensor will make protecting the quality of treated waste-water cheap and easy and therefore more common and accessible to more people.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Antonios Kanaras.
Email: a.kanaras@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/new-high-resolution-observations-of-ocean-surface-current:
High-resolution satellite images of ocean colour reveal a multitude of oceanic features at scales below 10km.
Small eddies, whirls and filaments permeate the global ocean but are particularly frequent near current jets, mesoscale eddies, in coastal seas and near sea ice.
Recent research show that these small-scale processes play a critical role in the global climate system by modulating interactions between the atmosphere, ocean, land and cryosphere - impacting vertical exchanges of heat, gases, freshwater and nutrients between the surface and the ocean interior [1] and horizontal transport pathways [2].
However, today’s knowledge of these processes stems mainly from models, with little observational data available for validation.
Measuring small scales in situ is extremely challenging, expensive and rare.
This project investigates a new type of ocean observations from the innovative OSCAR airborne system that images ocean current and wind fields at 1km resolution or finer.
The project analyses data from two recent airborne campaigns in France and the Netherlands, comparing with high-resolution models, in situ sensors and satellites.
The project will demonstrate the added-value of OSCAR data to understand and model small-scale ocean dynamics, and strengthen the scientific motivation of the Earth Explorer 11 SEASTAR mission candidate [3].
For questions about the project, contact Professor Christine Gommenginger:
Email: cg1@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/new-perspectives-on-ocean-photosynthesis:
Solar energy ultimately drives all biogeochemical cycles and sustains planetary habitability.
In the oceans, diverse microbes absorb this solar energy and many use it in photoautotrophic processes that ‘fix’ new carbon, thereby sustaining the carbon cycle.
Often, however, carbon-fixation is limited by available nutrients (for example, iron) but light is still absorbed to drive photoheterotrophic processes [1].
There is an increasing appreciation of the importance and role of this photoheterotrophic metabolism in ocean systems in powering vital cellular processes such as CO2 concentration and nutrient uptake [2].
However, the mechanistic basis of different photoheterotrophic processes and how/when they are used are not well understood [3].
This project aims to couple in situ and experimental approaches to understand the conditions under which different solar energy capture strategies are used and the cellular processes they maintain.
This will provide important new insights into the use of solar energy to sustain the planetary system, and how the system evolved and will adapt in a future ocean.
For questions about the project, email Professor Tom Bibby:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/novel-methods-of-detecting-carbon-cycling-pathways-in-lakes:
Freshwater lakes are a major source of atmospheric methane (CH4), a potent greenhouse gas.
However, the importance of freshwater CH4 cycling in our future warm climate remains unknown.
One way to better understand methane cycling in lakes is to assess changes in the past, and this project will focus on methane cycling and impacts on ecosystem community.
Project aims will be to reconstruct (1) ecosystem communities through microfossil analyses (e.g.
chironomids, Cladocera) from varved lake sediments; (2) methane ebullition by analyzing the stable carbon isotopic composition (δ13C) of chironomids and Cladocera; (3) methane production by analysing the abundance of archaeal lipid biomarkers; (4) methane oxidation through δ13C analysis of bacterial lipid biomarkers (e.g., hopanoids), and (5) bacterial communities that are involved in methane oxidation, via sedimentary ancient DNA (sedaDNA) analyses.
This will enable the differentiation between Type I or Type II methanotrophs and will provide additional insights into methane flux (i.e., high vs low).
These results can then be compared, enabling us to detect if there is a change in community structure over time (protist and/or primary consumers), and thus our interpretation of the methane cycle in the past as well as considering warmer futures.
For questions about the project, email Professor Pete Langdon:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/novel-technologies-for-cyber-physical-security:
We are relying more and more on technology in our everyday life, which exposes us to several serious threats in the cyber-physical space.
The relentless evolution of modern technologies like Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, and cloud computing played a pivotal role to extend the possibilities offered by the cyber-physical space, which is therefore getting more and more intertwined with our lives.
Many benefits have been brought in by cyber-physical technologies in terms of efficiency, opportunities, and connectivity.
However, our heavy dependence on the cyber-physical space has been massively exploited by attackers to compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our devices, data, and services.
Attacks are not only limited to cyberspace, indeed the ubiquity of embedded devices means that adversaries can directly access them and can carry out physical and side-channel attacks.
The attack surface is further complicated by the significant rise in the level of outsourcing in the integrated circuit supply chain, which has given rise to additional threats, including Hardware Trojan and integrated circuit counterfeits.
Fully funded PhD studentships at the home level are available to investigate these security issues in specific scenarios, such as smart homes and supply chain management, and devise novel controls and techniques to detect, predict and prevent security threats in the cyber-physical space.
Novel technologies like machine and deep learning, physically unclonable functions, blockchain, and formal methods will be adapted and combined to reduce the risk of cyber-physical attacks.
For examples of our currently active security research directions, please see the Cyber Security research group .
Successful candidates would have a strong background in either computer science or electronics or both, and preference would be given to those with a good understanding of cyber or cyber-physical security concepts and embedded systems.
You will join the Cyber Security research group, which is recognized by GCHQ and NCSC as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-CSR) and has received a gold award as Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Education (ACE-CSE).
Therefore, you will be supervised by world-leading researchers in the field of cyber-physical security and join a remarkable and dynamic team of postdoctoral researchers and other PhD students.
You will also have the chance to collaborate with the Cyber Security Academy , which works closely with world-leading security companies.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/novel-transparent-conducting-films-with-unusual-optoelectronic-properties:
A fully-funded PhD studentship in materials chemistry at the University of Southampton is available under the supervision of Dr Geoffrey Hyett and Prof Gill Reid in collaboration with Pilkington NSG.
The project will investigate the synthesis of mixed anion thin films for transparent conductor applications.
It will involve the synthesis and characterisation of novel molecular precursors to deliver the required elemental compositions and phases and make use of a range of thin film deposition techniques, including low-pressure and aerosol assisted chemical vapour deposition and sol gel dip-coating.
You'll help to develop this new thin film deposition methodology and will gain expertise in inorganic synthesis, and associated characterisation techniques such as NMR spectroscopy, mass spectrometry for precursor characterisation, as well as X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, to evaluate the thin film properties.
Due to funding restrictions, this position is only open to UK applicants.
Applications will be considered in the order that they are received, and the position will be considered filled when a suitable candidate has been identified.
An undergraduate 2:1 honours degree in Chemistry or another related discipline, or its international equivalent.
Tuition fees and a current research council rate stipend of £16,062 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
Applications should be made online.
You'll need to:
In Section 2 of the application form, enter Geoffrey Hyett as the name of the supervisor.
You'll need to include:
Informal enquiries may be directed to Dr Geoffrey Hyett.
Email: G.Hyett@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/novel-wavelength-fibre-lasers-for-industrial-applications:
Output powers have increased by more than four orders of magnitude in the past two decades, reaching 10kW in a single beam.
They are widely used in the most advanced production lines for cutting, welding, 3D printing and marking a myriad of materials from glass to steel.
Such a breakthrough could enable control of all light properties (such as wavelength, polarization, intensity, and phase) to create dynamically reconfigurable structured light that changes “on the fly” depending on the specific application.
Such a “digital fibre laser” would not only make the UK a more prosperous nation, but also allow us to protect against malevolent drones, build the next generation of efficient, compact particle accelerators, clean-up space debris, treat nuclear waste, and all-in-all make the world a better, cleaner, greener, and safer place.
You will be leading the development of HPFLs in a range of novel wavelengths.
The 2µm wavelength band (~1850 nm to ~2100 nm), the green wavelength band (~540 nm), and wavelengths in the UV band, offer the potential for huge benefits to industrial laser processing, due to enhanced absorption in a wider range of materials.
These wavelengths offer the prospect of considerably enhanced precision and efficiency when processing and cutting a range of materials such as polymers, composites, and even biological tissue (e.g.
for medical procedures).
However, scaling average power in these wavelength regimes whilst maintaining high-quality beam profiles is a significant challenge.
You will be combining theoretical modelling with experimental work, to demonstrate a wide range of critically important breakthroughs, including multi-kW Tm fibre lasers with narrow-linewidths, and high-power green wavelength and UV lasers for composite materials processing for renewable technology applications.
At least an UK undergraduate 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent.
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £16,062 tax-free per annum for up to 3.5 years
In Section 2 of the application form, enter Andy Clarkson as the name of the supervisor.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ocean-circulation-the-southern-ocean-carbon-sink:
The aim of this project is to determine how ocean circulation interacts with the “remineralisation” of sinking organic matter to set the efficiency of the Southern Ocean carbon sink.
Increasing atmospheric CO2 is partly mitigated by uptake of excess carbon by the ocean, but there is also a large natural ocean-atmosphere carbon cycle which is also vulnerable to change.
Carbon is removed from the surface ocean – and therefore the atmosphere – in sinking organic matter, is remineralised (returned to inorganic form) in the subsurface ocean, and is returned to the surface by the circulation.
The Southern Ocean is a hub in the global carbon cycle, partly due to its large vertical exchanges, which have a complex structure (Figure 1).
A critical question is: “how much remineralisation occurs in waters that are quickly returned to the surface, versus waters that remain isolated from the atmosphere for centuries?”, yet there are large uncertainties in the structure both of the circulation and of remineralisation.
This project will seek to answer this question by combining a novel dataset for observing the biological pump (Briggs et al., 2020) with recent modelling advances (Lauderdale & Cael, 2021) in understanding the link between circulation, remineralisation, and the Southern Ocean carbon sink.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Kevin Oliver.
Email: K.Oliver@noc.soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ocean-influence-on-recent-climate-extremes:
The last decade has seen an increasing number of extreme weather events (e.g.
Fischer et al.
2021) which had significant societal impacts.
Unprecedented heat waves and drought conditions in some regions have led to heat related deaths, widespread wildfires as well as reductions in agricultural yield while elsewhere floods have caused significant infrastructural damage and in some case loss of life.
It is on land that these events are felt but in some instances they can be accompanied and sometimes preceded by temperature and salinity anomalies in the ocean.
Recent examples include an anomalously cold region in the North Atlantic, a warm anomaly in the North Pacific as well as persistent La Niña conditions in the equatorial Pacific.
There is increasing evidence that these ocean anomalies feed back onto the atmospheric circulation and contributed to the development of some recent extreme events (e.g.
Mecking et al.
2019; Duchez et al.
2016).
To what extent these ocean anomalies are the result of changes in the ocean circulation or a response to local atmospheric forcing is far from fully understood.
However, this is key to understanding mechanisms of seasonal to interannual predictability in the climate system and to improve preparedness for extreme weather events.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Joel Hirschi:
Email: joel.hirschi@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ocean-methane-sensing-novel-surface-plasmon-resonance-technology:
Although our oceans contain 99% of the living space on the planet, less than 10% of this space has been explored.
Ocean monitoring is essential to human survival - from understanding the long-term impacts of climate change to ensuring ocean resources are developed sustainably.
Marine sensing requires us to recognise data timely and accurately from all the environments of space, sea surface and deep sea.
We also need smart integration of data from different sensor systems to accurately predict future environmental conditions and their impact on life.
Today, ocean research is supported by marine sensing technologies such as in-situ testing, integrated sensor networks and remote sensing.
However, as the deadline for carbon net-zero approaches, the demand for more compact and efficient ocean sensors is increasing.
Further research is needed to develop the next generation of ocean sensors which will be capable of detecting trace concentration of pollutants, while remaining compact enough to be integrated into miniaturised subsea vehicles.
The aim of this project is to develop and expand the range of analytes and pollutants to detect, using a novel surface plasmon resonance technique.
Recently, this innovative technique has been successfully deployed for the detection of ocean hydrocarbons.
Within this project, you will optimise the sensor for the detection of specific molecules depending on the:
You’ll be part of a wider, multidisciplinary team within the Optoelectronics Research Centre (ORC) and National Oceanography Centre (NOC) and have the opportunity to develop skills in areas of engineering, oceanography, and chemistry.
The project will be supported by world leading ocean sensors industries.
You’ll use theoretical numerical modelling to assess the interaction of light with a permeable membrane and conduct experimental work at our facilities in ORC (sensor fabrication) and NOC (sensor testing and calibration).
In collaboration with world class researchers from Imperial College, a permeable membrane for a specific pollutant will add a dimension of selectivity to the sensor.
You’ll also join Southampton’s Marine and Maritime Institute (SMMI).
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent, in one of the following disciplines:
For UK students, tuition fees and a stipend of £18,000 tax-free each year for up to 3.5 years.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Rand Ismaeel.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ocean-physics-ecology-can-robots-disentangle-the-mix:
Marine phytoplankton are key players in the global carbon cycle as they are responsible for half of the primary production (conversion of carbon dioxide and water into oxygen and organic carbon via photosynthesis) on Earth.
The main controls on phytoplankton growth are light and nutrient availability.
Both observations and models have suggested that upper ocean mesoscale (eddies) and submesoscale processes (fronts) play an important role along with atmospheric forcing in regulating the availability of these resources and therefore phytoplankton community growth.
Such processes, influence the vertical exchange between the water layers, regulating the light field and nutrient availability for the phytoplankton community at small spatial (metres to kms) and short temporal scales (daily to sub-daily), which are relevant for phytoplankton adaptation and acclimation.
Models with sufficient resolution to evaluate these processes are computationally expensive and most observation platforms (e.g.
Argo floats) don’t sample and resolve the daily to sub-daily variability.
In this project, you will use high-resolution gliders to (1) understand and quantify the effect of small-scale and episodic physical processes on the phytoplankton community growth; (2) evaluate the importance of including small-scale processes in oceanic carbon uptake.
Filling this knowledge gap using these high-resolution data will improve predictions of how the carbon uptake by phytoplankton is affected by both natural variability and changes in physical forcing driven by climate change.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Filipa Carvalho:
Email: filipa.carvalho@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/ocean-based-carbon-dioxide-removal-assessing-the-utility:
If the extent of global warming is to be limited to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels then Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR) approaches need to be able to extract up to 1000 GtCO 2 from the atmosphere by 2100.
Meeting these targets requires the rapid implementation of an array of CDR methods, with ocean-based techniques receiving increasing attention due to the potential scale and permanence of CO 2 sequestration that can be achieved.
Coastal enhanced weathering, a form of ocean alkalinity enhancement, is one of the most promising ocean-based CDR techniques, with laboratory experiments and model-based estimates implying it may be capable of removing several GtCO 2/ yr [e.g.
1].
However, confidence in the viability of this approach is currently limited by uncertainties in the rate of weathering and the potential for environmental and ecosystem impacts [2,3].
This project addresses these knowledge gaps by investigating the weathering processes and fate of trace metals released during olivine dissolution in coastal environments.
Working in collaboration with Vesta , who are conducting the world’s first coastal enhanced weathering trials in America and the Caribbean, this study will help establish the rate of weathering and whether potentially bio-limiting and/or toxic metals such as Fe, Si and Ni are released into seawater or retained within the sediments.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Christopher Pearce:
Email: c.r.pearce@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/offshore-renewable-energy-ore-foundations-on-rock-seabeds:
This project aims to advance the understanding and design of foundation systems on rock seabeds, to support the necessary expansion of offshore renewables energy (ORE), such as wind turbines or wave energy converters.
The project will develop new analysis techniques, inspired by new approaches for experimental testing of small-scale foundation models installed in rock material.
ORE devices are often located in energetic sites (e.g.
Celtic Sea), where sediments have been washed away, leaving a bare rocky seabed.
The design of ORE devices' foundations or anchors (e.g.
drilled piles) is very conservative and costly because of a lack of:
Innovation and new design guidance are needed to drive foundation cost down, and must be supported by experimental evidence.
However, field testing of large scale foundations is extremely expensive.
Smaller scale lab testing is limited to intact rock samples, with no geological features (e.g.
discontinuities).
So advanced modelling is needed at an intermediate scale.
We propose to develop a process to create artificial rock samples (rock analogues), which will mimic the main geological features of rock masses encountered in the field.
This will enable the testing of small scale foundations in a repeatable/reliable way.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Benjamin Cerfontaine.
Email: B.Cerfontaine@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/optical-fibre-sensing-leak-detection-in-buried-pipelines:
Explore the use of optical fibre sensing for the acoustic detection of leaks in a 3.5 year, fully-funded PhD.
Tens of kilometres of pipelines could be continuously monitored for leaks using optical fibre technology.
The opportunities for further developing pipeline sensing are tremendous and exciting.
Optical fibres offer a lot of spare capacity that can potentially be used for sensing water leaks.
This project will explore the use of existing fibre networks to detect water leaks.
You’ll work on advanced wave modelling and signal processing, both theoretically and in the field.
As well as gaining skills in physics, mechanics, sensing, processing and experimentation, you'll make a valuable contribution to an untapped field of research.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/optimal-energy-transfer-in-nonlinear-systems-0:
In this PhD, you'll investigate how energy can be optimally transferred between subsystems within a nonlinear system.
The impact of this project will be significant for vibration mitigation, vibration isolation, and vibration energy harvesting.
Linear dynamical systems are well-understood in the context of tuned mass dampers.
However, nonlinear systems and nonlinear mechanisms are considered with a model-specific approach.
This relies on perturbation theory, which is valid for weak nonlinearities over finite time.
Targeted energy transfer (TET) is a nonlinear alternative that can also be generalised to multi-degree-of-freedom (MDOF) systems.
In the traditional TET formulation, the nonlinearities are given for all degrees of freedom, such as cubic order, and the energy-transfer subsystem is tuned to an optimal set of parameters to mitigate unwanted dynamics of the primary system.
There are still areas issues surrounding TET which need to be addressed:
This project will address these issues using machine learning optimization algorithms, such as Surrogate Optimization and methods in nonlinear dynamics.
You will need:
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Daniil Yurchenko.
Email: d.yurchenko@soton.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)23 8059 9406

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/optimal-energy-transfer-in-nonlinear-systems:
Design and understanding of nonlinear models is required for optimal performance and for accurate reproduction of dynamical behavior.
One of the intriguing phenomenona in nonlinear systems is Targeted Energy Transfer (TET), where the goal is to transfer energy within a nonlinear system between subsystems.
The theory of linear dynamical systems is well-developed in the context of tuned mass dampers, in contrast to nonlinear systems, where often individual nonlinear mechanisms are considered with a model-specific.
A majority of these approaches rely on perturbation theory, for weak nonlinearities over finite time.
TET is a nonlinear alternative that can also be generalised to multi-degree-of-freedom systems (MDOF).
In the traditional TET formulation, the nonlinearities are given for all degrees of freedom, for instance of cubic order, and the energy-transfer subsystem is tuned to an optimal set of parameters (coefficients) to mitigate undesirable dynamics of the primary system.
Based on the existing publications this leaves the following gaps in the TET’s state of the art:
To address these gaps the project will combine machine learning optimization algorithms, such as Surrogate Optimization (SO) and methods in nonlinear dynamics.
This project will require a student with:
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Doctor Daniil Yurchenko, Dynamics Research Group.
Email: d.yurchenko@soton.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 2380 59406

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/optimizing-machine-learning-for-embedded-systems:
Artificial Intelligence has been hugely successful in solving complex tasks and a significant progress has been made in bringing the utility of deep neural networks on tiny resource-constrained embedded devices via optimizing inference.
However, learning the deep learning models on the device still remains challenging due to the mismatch between the computation complexity of deep learning models against the resource availability on the device.
In this project, we aim to tackle this challenge.
You will:
You'll work to bring the capability to perform the learning process of deep learning models directly on low-cost and low power tiny embedded devices.
Learning paradigms include on-device training, on-device continual learning and on-device Bayesian learning.
Your work will have a potential to create socio-economic impact in many ways.
Firstly, creating novel on-device efficient learning systems will allow masses to enjoy the advantages provided by deep learning for many useful and ubiquitous computing applications with full control over privacy.
Further, low power solutions will result in reducing the carbon footprint of deep learning models contributing to sustainable computing.
Lastly, your work can guide the development of the next generation of technologies and spark further research in applications on embedded devices leveraging AI.
This is a great opportunity to work with well-known external key partners - Stanford, OnSemi and Google- in a positive and vibrant university environment on cutting edge technology.
University of Southampton is a top university (1% of world universities and in the top 10 of the UK) and the School of Electronics and Computer Science is one of the top CS departments in the UK.
You will also be working with other researchers and PhD students in the team and will have a chance to publish and present your work at the top-tier conferences and journals in the area of Systems, ubiquitous computing, and machine learning.
We have a large network of collaborations with academics at Imperial, Kings College London, Newcastle, Cambridge, Cornell, and industrial labs such as Samsung AI and Bell Labs in Cambridge.
These will help you to foster further collaborations, strengthen your network and look out for internships.
Further, you will also be able to join International Centre for Spatial Computational Learning and ARM-ECS centre
A 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/oxidation-of-fossil-organic-matter-as-a-source-of-atmospheric:
All living organisms contain organic carbon.
When an organism dies, organic carbon can become trapped within ancient sedimentary rocks (fossil organic carbon).
This is a major carbon reservoir and is a sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) over millennial- and million-year timescales (Hilton and West, 2020).
However, uplift, exhumation and erosion of ancient sedimentary rocks has the potential to oxidize fossil organic carbon and release this CO 2 back into the atmosphere (Hemingway et al., 2019).
This may act as a positive climate feedback and increase global temperatures.
However, the mechanisms responsible for fossil carbon oxidation remain a major gap in our understanding.
Fossil carbon oxidation is likely controlled by a variety of:
Disentangling the relative importance of these different processes is challenging but can be assessed in controlled laboratory and natural field experiments.
This project will employ a suite of laboratory and field-based approaches to study the fate of fossil organic carbon in modern environments.
The findings of this project will help constrain whether fossil organic carbon oxidation might serve as a large source of atmospheric CO 2 in both past and future climates.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Gordon Inglis.
Email: gordon.inglis@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/partnership-dissolution-re-formation-in-later-life:
Explore the personal impact of partnership dissolution and re-partnering in later life in a fully funded PhD project in collaboration with the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership.
The likelihood of experiencing divorce at ages 65 and over has been rising in the last two decades.
However, our understanding of how ethnic differences affect partnership dissolution and re-partnering in later life remains limited.
There is also a need to further understand how these events affect the individuals’ resources.
In this project, you’ll analyse data from the UK Census and the UK Household Longitudinal Survey to investigate the impact of these patterns on older individuals’ financial circumstances, social networks, and mental and physical health.
You will develop your quantitative analysis skills and build on your interest in ethnic differences in partnership patterns and resources.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Professor Maria Evandrou.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/personalized-multimodal-human-robot-interactions:
Robots have the potential of becoming companions that can assist and collaborate with people in everyday tasks.
The embodied multimodal interaction capabilities based on gestures, speech, vision and affect/emotion exhibited by the robot companions can better engage users, physically and socially, compared to digital interfaces such as mobile phones and computers.
In most of the cases, the interaction behaviours exhibited by the robots are coded manually or automated to limited extents.
For example, by using scripted dialogues or teleoperated gestures.
Further, there is also a need to investigate techniques to synchronize the behaviours exhibited across multiple modalities to suit various interaction contexts.
For example, the gestures of the robot need to suit its speech and emotional context of the conversation.
The aim of the project is to develop unified computational frameworks to generate multimodal behaviours for interactions that are context-dependent and can be personalized to suit user preferences such as user personality and interaction styles.
You will explore the use of the existing state-of-the-art conversational dialogue systems, computer vision, text-to-speech and emotion recognition modules to design novel interaction frameworks.
These frameworks will look at bidirectional modelling of human-robot interactions where the robot can understand the content and context of the users’ speech and gestures and can respond through appropriate speech and affective behaviours.
You will have access to specialist equipment and laboratories within the school such as HPC clusters and anthropomorphic and zoomorphic robots with integrated vision, audio and text-to-speech modules for the development and testing of relevant methodologies.
The project will encompass various exciting topics in computer science such as:
Successful candidates would have a strong background in computer science, engineering, maths or physics and preference would be given to those with good understanding of deep learning models and signal processing.
You will join the School of Electronics and Computer Science which is ranked 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Guardian University Guide 2022) within the University of Southampton, which is ranked in the top 1% of universities worldwide.
We will also support the development of your future career and give you opportunities including teaching assistantships, professional networking via leading organizations such as Alan Turing Institute and UKRI TAS Hub, and access to Future Worlds to explore commercialization for your research.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/preventing-disease-by-enhancing-the-cleaning-power-of-domestic:
This project will address two challenges, disease and hunger.
The world will need to feed an extra 2-billion people by 2050.
By the same year, superbugs such as bacteria resistant to antibiotics, will be killing more people than cancer, and have cost the world economy more than its current size.
Uptake of solutions is key to engineering.
It would be a huge advantage to have solutions to these that is both common on a global scale, but also easy to use.
Water-taps, or faucets, are commonplace worldwide.
They are easy-to-use by untrained people, and are already in the routine front-line efforts to reduce disease (washing hands, food, PPE) and in food preparation.
At the University of Southampton, Professor Leighton invented technology whereby the addition of sound and microscopic air bubbles to streams of ordinary tap water can hugely increase its cleaning power .
This is achieved without heating the water (saving 79-97% of electrical power compared to commercial and medical cleaning systems ) and without adding chemicals to the water which makes it easier to purify the run-off into clean water again .
Engineers at the spin-out company Sloan Water Technology Ltd.
(SWT) are working on particular projects, including placing surgical instrument cleaners in the NHS.
However, SWT has also successfully sponsored PhD projects, where students research their own unique initiatives, the successful ones having the opportunity of being included in SWT future commercial outputs.
This proposed project will look at introducing SWT’s core breakthrough (of enhancing cleaning in room-temperature tap water through the addition of sound and microscopic air bubbles) into domestic water taps.
Such an initiative would improve hand-cleaning (for example, in advance of a future pandemic that is transmitted by touch), and cleaning of foods.
Indeed, preliminary studies show that washing in SWT’s water stream extends food shelf life, currently 25% of the world’s food calories, and up to 50% by weight are wasted before consumption.
Because water-taps are so commonly used world-wide, the widespread dissemination of this research to reduce global disease and hunger is a real possibility.
The appointed student should have a good engineering or physics degree, and be interested in learning cross-disciplinary skills, particular the staining and microscopy skills used in microbiology (two of the co-supervisors, Highmore and Secker, are microbiologists).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/quantifying-riparian-vegetation-dynamics-flow-interactions:
This project aims to deliver a step-change in our understanding of vegetation and flow interactions in river corridors, with an emphasis on creating a baseline for Nature Based Solution approaches to sustainable river management.
Vegetation, and Large Woody Debris (LWD) specifically, has a significant effect on river flows, channel morphology and carbon storage.
These interactions are conceptually well understood: the flow resistance introduced by the presence of vegetation and LWD leads to changes in flow which modulate water and sediment transport resulting in changes in river form and flooding.
Similarly, these water-vegetation interactions control carbon storage and sequestration in the riparian zone.
Yet, attempts to quantify the flow-vegetation dynamics, for example in numerical models, remain elusive due to difficulties in accurately estimating the complex interactions through time.
This represents a major limitation as vegetation is ubiquitous in natural river corridors and is often used as part of Nature Based Solutions to flood management and in river restoration schemes.
This project will address these knowledge gaps using state-of-the-art environmental sensing techniques and a vegetation functional groups framework in conjunction with spatial ecological techniques to deliver a data-driven model of river corridor vegetation-flow functioning.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Julian Leyland.
Email: J.Leyland@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/quantifying-response-sensitivity-tropical-forest-carbon-sinks:
Terrestrial ecosystems play an important role in the climate system and the global carbon cycle.
For example, terrestrial vegetation acts as a carbon sink by absorbing up to 15-30% of all anthropogenic CO 2 emissions through photosynthesis.
This absorption regulates the build-up of CO 2 in the atmosphere, which in turn influences the levels of global warming and associated climate change.
However, climate change and anthropogenic activities are threatening the role of terrestrial vegetation to act as carbon sink.
Several factors (e.g.
CO 2 fertilization, climate, nitrogen deposition, land use and land cover change, extreme climatic events etc.) have been identified as key variables that influence the ability of terrestrial ecosystems to act as carbon sink.
However, there is currently uncertainty on the response of terrestrial ecosystem carbon sinks to the dynamics of these drivers.
Identifying factors that affect the capacity of the terrestrial vegetation to absorb carbon and quantifying the magnitude of their sensitivity to driving factors is important in accurately projecting future coupled carbon cycle and climate system.
Therefore, this study aims to quantify the dynamics of tropical forest carbon sinks and their response and sensitivity to various environmental drivers.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Booker Ogutu.
Email: B.O.Ogutu@southampton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/quantifying-variability-in-phytoplankton-electron-requirements:
Phytoplankton primary production (PhytoPP) underpins the marine foodweb and is a key component of the oceanic carbon cycle.
This project will investigate the variable coupling of photosynthetic electron transport estimated using active chlorophyll fluorescence techniques, with carbon fixation, in order to facilitate autonomous wide spatio-temporal scale measurements of the latter.
Measurement of PhytoPP has enormous potential for developing our understanding of ocean productivity and validation of biogeochemical models.
Historically, direct measurement of PhytoPP has been dominated by incubation-based measurement of 14C assimilation over several hours.
However, as this method cannot be directly applied on meaningful spatial and temporal scales, there is extreme undersampling of the oceanic productivity.
A long-term collaboration between Chelsea Technologies Ltd and the University of Southampton has led to the development of a new generation of Single Turnover Active chlorophyll Fluorometer (STAF) systems for the assessment of photosynthetic electron transport.
However the coupling of electron transport to carbon fixation is variable as a result of multiple physiological, ecological and associated environmental drivers.
This PhD project aims to undertake a comprehensive assessment of the potential for STAF to accurately estimate carbon fixation and investigate drivers of variability in electron to carbon coupling.
Measurements with phytoplankton cultures grown under defined conditions in the laboratory, including variability in light and nutrients, will be combined with similar measurements on natural phytoplankton communities in the field, including the opportunity to go to sea in the Southern Ocean.
You will be trained in the use of active chlorophyll fluorometry for the assessment of phytoplankton physiology and electron transport, and the use of radiotracer techniques for microbial rate measurements.
Additionally, you'll be trained in multi-variate data analysis techniques, supporting the development of a mechanistic understanding of variability in electron transport coupling to carbon fixation in the oceans.
You'll need a degree in a relevant discipline.
Please visit the National Oceanography Centre website for more details on eligibility.
This project is fully funded by our industrial partner and will include a stipend at least equivalent to UKRI level each year for up to 3.5 years
Please visit the National Oceanography Centre website for details on eligibility and how to apply.
Phone: +44 (0)238 212 6521
Please contact Professor Mark Moore for an initial conversation about the project.
Email: cmm1g06@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/resilient-sustainable-steel-framed-building-structures-0:
In this project, you'll investigate how hybrid stainless steel/carbon steel joints can improve structural performance and resilience under extreme loading conditions.
Climate change has led to extreme environmental conditions and challenges.
Therefore, we must design structures and infrastructure that are efficient, resilient, sustainable, and capable of meeting the demands of modern society and future risks.
You will conduct experimental and numerical modelling research using the state-of-the-art structural and material testing facilities in our new UKCRIC National Infrastructure Laboratory .
Your research will lead to real structural design guidance rules that could potentially be adopted into standards and practice.
Based at our Boldrewood Innovation Campus, you’ll be part of a vibrant research group which focuses on a range of structural engineering challenges.
You’ll collaborate with industry professionals, and receive mentoring and training through our Sustainable Infrastructure for Cities Centre of Doctoral Training.
For UK students, Tuition Fees and a stipend of £17,668 tax-free per annum for up to 3.5 years.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Sheida Afshan.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/resolving-antarctic-meltwater-events-in-southern-ocean-marine:
The principal aim of this project is to better understand the role of the Antarctic ice sheet in global sea level and rapid climate change by reconstructing Antarctic glacial discharge and modelling the impact of these freshwater fluxes on global circulation and climate.
The project will target intervals of increased Antarctic ice sheet discharge for the Last Interglacial (LIG), and the past millennium in marine sediments from ‘iceberg alley’, to identify intervals of increased Antarctic ice sheet discharge for the Last Interglacial (LIG), and the past millennium.
Last Interglacial (130-120ka): The source of the high global mean sea level at the peak of the LIG when the earth was 1-2°C warmer and global sea level was 6 to 9m higher than present is still unresolved.
Sights have turned to Antarctica to account for the bulk of the LIG sea level rise.
Historical (~1 ka to present): Existing records of Antarctic glacial discharge either do not include the Anthropocene, are at very low resolution or are from sites on the inner continental shelf where glacial discharge is likely dominated by local glacier conditions.
Records of continental-scale ice discharge are urgently needed to resolve historical changes in Antarctic contributions to GMSL and freshwater influence on ocean circulation.
These records will yield an integrated (WAIS & EAIS) record of glacial discharge and provide new evidence for models to assess how Antarctic freshwater inputs impact deep waters, ocean circulation and other climate dynamics.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Claire S Allen:
Email: csall@bas.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/robust-acoustic-leak-detection-using-contact-sound-guides:
We’re offering a 3.5-year fully funded PhD, developing contact underground sound guides to overcome the limitations of closely spaced access points.
Conventional acoustic leak detection methods are limited as they rely on attaching sensors to closely spaced access points, like hydrants.
This limitation could be overcome by developing a sound-guiding technique based on fine metal rods inserted into the ground until they reach the pipeline.
The low cost and ease of this method make it attractive for the leak detection industry.
This project will focus on laying theoretical foundations and developing practical recommendations for the detection of leaks guided by sound.
You’ll examine the physics of waves across interfaces and propose suitable signal processing to optimise detection performance and address practical implementation issues.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/silicon-synapses-for-artificial-intelligence-hardware:
Electronic devices such as computers, mobile phones and data centres account for a significant amount of the world's energy consumption.
We need to invent novel technologies to deliver high-speed, low-power, and efficient computing and communication.
This PhD studentship aims to develop neuromorphic chips for artificial intelligence (AI) hardware accelerators.
You will exploit the architecture of memristive technologies to deliver faster, smaller, and lower-powered AI chips than the conventional chips that gadgets currently use.
Memristive nanodevices are an emerging nanoelectronic technology with unique capabilities in mimicking the communication of neurons.
You can create a neural network by interconnecting a massive number of these devices.
You’ll learn how to design and fabricate a massive array of memristive prototypes, investigate their reliability, and integrate them to build a silicon neural network.
The final objective of this project is to build an application demonstrator employing AI chips to run neuromorphic computations on a field programmable gate array (FPGA).
You will have access to our nanofabrication centre which includes a state-of-art cleanroom, materials and electrical characterisation facilities, and excellent research staff and technicians to support your research.
We will encourage you to attend international conferences in the UK and abroad to present your research work and guide you to publish your results in high-impact journals.
SET is one of the leading research groups in the UK, offering unique solutions to real-world problems by delivering efficient electronics while addressing all aspects of sustainability.
Our research interests include neuromorphic computing, heterogeneous integration, and 2D material-based and wearable electronics.
We have diverse expertise ranging from devices to systems, and our state-of-art research facilities and strong collaborations with industry enable us to explore new ways to innovate advanced nanoelectronics.
We are seeking exceptional candidates to join our team, interested in devoting their passion to addressing some of the challenges we have identified.
Learn more about our SET research group
You require one of the following qualifications in physics, engineering, materials science, electronics or chemistry:
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Firman Simanjuntak.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/smart-photon-delivery-via-reconfigurable-optical-fibres:
You will be focussing on the exciting area of programmable beam shaping for HPFLs.
You will be working with a range of speciality optical fibres and opto-mechanical transducers, to provide the building blocks for reconfigurable beam shaping and ‘smart photon’ delivery.
Transforming traditional Gaussian beams into bespoke profiles, such as flattop or annular beams, has proved to be highly beneficial in several advanced material processing applications, such as ablation, cutting, drilling, scribing, and annealing, and you will need to understand the requirements for each type of application and the associated optimal beam profiles.
You will be using numerical modelling to define the optimal parameters and cross-sections for the speciality fibres, and then solve the experimental challenges associated with the integration of a range of mechanical and piezoelectric acousto-optic transducers for sub-millisecond time scale beam shaping and polarisation control, over fibre length longer than 100 metres.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-gulf-stream-control-of-the-north-atlantic-carbon-sink:
The ocean provides a crucial uptake of carbon from the atmosphere, acting to moderate the rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) from human emissions, with a major fraction of the ocean CO 2 uptake taking place in the North Atlantic.
As the main ocean current in the North Atlantic, the Gulf Stream is known to play a key role in controlling regional and global climate, by redistributing heat between low and high latitudes.
However, the role of ocean circulation and, in particular, the Gulf Stream, in controlling the North Atlantic carbon sink is far less certain, which critically hampers our capacity to predict the sink’s future evolution.
In this project, this key knowledge gap will be addressed by investigating the mechanisms that control the impact of the Gulf Stream on CO 2 uptake locally, along the stream path, and downstream, in the subpolar North Atlantic.
Specifically, you will address the question of how the vertical and lateral mixing of the warm, nutrient-rich, anthropogenic carbon-poor waters of the Gulf Stream regulates the biological and physical uptake of carbon dioxide.
The project is based on the analysis of state-of-the-art physical and biogeochemical data collected with autonomous vehicles along and across the Gulf Stream pathway in the North Atlantic.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Bieito Fernández Castro.
Email: b.fernandez-castro@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/mayflower-studentship:
This provides an exciting and unusual novel opportunity to undertake training in research and education whilst studying for a PhD in the biosciences discipline of your choice at a world-leading Russell Group University.
You will join our vibrant community of more than 100 postgraduate students in the School of Biological Sciences , with world-leading expertise spanning:
The successful applicant will select their research topic from a list of project titles and PhD supervisors in the disciplines of:
Provisional titles are:
As an integral part of your postgraduate training, you will deliver education to 3rd year research project students in the biosciences areas aligned to your research for up to 10 weeks of the first 3 years of your PhD.
You will receive training and guidance towards successful attainment of fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.
This will provide an excellent foundation for you if you are considering a career in an academic setting.
View all potential supervisors
The project is funded for 4 years.
Funding will cover UK fees and a stipend at current research council rates.
Due to funding restrictions this position is only open to UK applicants.
You need to mention 'Mayflower Studentship' under 'Topic or field of research proposed'.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr James Dillon or Dr Marcin Prezewloka.
Email: J.C.Dillon@soton.ac.uk
Email: Marcin.Przewloka@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-calming-effect-of-group-living-in-social-fishes:
Group living is common across the animal kingdom, ranging from the tiniest insects to the largest mammals.
The ubiquity of sociality suggests that it imparts several benefits to individual group members.
However, the evolutionary drivers of social behaviour within and among animal species remain obscure.
One advantage of group living may come in the form of energy savings.
Group-living individuals may reduce energy needs by sharing the costs associated with daily activities, such as movement and finding food.
Social individuals may also benefit from the “calming effect”, in which energy use drops as the group can take advantage of having “many eyes” to scan for predators and reduce everyone’s investment in predator avoidance.
Recent work in a social fish species found that socializing can reduce metabolic rate by 25% on average when compared to social isolation [1], with this calming effect persisting even under projected future ocean acidification [2].
This project will take a comparative approach to social fishes to identify what characteristics predispose a fish species to be “calmer” in a social context and determine whether environmental traits alter the magnitude of this energetic benefit.
For questions about the project, email Dr Lauren Nadler:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-duration-of-ridge-flank-hydrothermal-exchange:
Ocean chemistry reflects a dynamic balance between riverine inputs, biological processing, sediment burial, and hydrothermal exchanges with ocean crust.
Current models of seawater geochemical evolution primarily consider high temperature hydrothermal venting along ridge axes, ignoring lower temperature reactions across the vast ridge flanks.
Investigating ridge flank exchange requires scientific ocean drilling through thick sediments into the oceanic crust.
To date, most investigations have taken place on only young and very old crust.
Consequently, although there is a measurable conductive heat flow anomaly in young ocean crust for on average ~65 million years, whether this thermal exchange also results in continual chemical exchange is not known.
This project, jointly funded by the Royal Society and University of Southampton, aims to quantify hydrothermal exchange, providing a baseline to investigate vital Earth processes from records of past ocean chemistry.
The student will work on the very first samples of 7-63 Ma ocean crust from the Southern Mid-Atlantic Ridge flank that were collected in spring/summer 2022 by the International Ocean Discovery Program.
These samples will allow the timing and duration of ridge flank hydrothermal exchange to be determined, and consequently its role in setting the chemical composition of the oceans, for the first time.
For questions about the project, Doctor Rosalind Coggon:
Email: R.M.Coggon@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-evolution-of-symmetry-in-echinoderms:
Symmetry is a fundamental property of the animal body plans that emerged over half a billion years ago, during the Ediacaran–Cambrian.
While a few animal groups display radial symmetry or are asymmetrical, the vast majority are bilaterally symmetrical.
However, determining why different types of symmetry evolved is challenging, in part because most phyla are characterized by only a single form.
Echinoderms (starfish, sea urchins and their allies) are an exception; all modern species exhibit pentaradial (five-fold) symmetry, but the phylum also possesses an extensive fossil record that includes bilateral, asymmetrical and radial forms [1,2].
The aim of the proposed research is to investigate the evolution of symmetry in echinoderms as an exemplar for understanding the evolutionary significance of symmetry in animals more broadly.
This will be achieved by studying the form, function and phylogeny of early fossil echinoderms using cutting-edge methods, including X-ray tomography, computational fluid dynamics and Bayesian inference.
Furthermore, the ecology and environments inhabited by early echinoderms will be characterized and analyzed quantitatively using phylogenetic comparative methods.
The results will transform our understanding of the evolution of symmetry in echinoderms, with broad implications for animal body plan assembly.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Imran Rahman:
Email: imran.rahman@nhm.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-impact-of-early-life-stress-on-neuronal-enhancer-function:
This project will use a mouse model to investigate the epigenetic mechanisms through which early life stress causes vulnerability to neurological disease.
Stressful events in the postnatal period, known as Early Life Stress (ELS), are an important predictor of neuropsychological disorders such as depression and schizophrenia.
While there is knowledge of how ELS alters some genes and pathways, it’s not well understood how these changes are instigated or can be manipulated.
Epigenetic regulation is a key facet of environmental influence over gene expression.
Research has focused on understanding epigenetic changes at genes, but distal enhancers which loop to genes to promote their expression are a key component of gene regulation.
We hypothesise that changes in enhancer activity and looping are integral in the priming of neurological sensitivity by ELS.
We’re setting up a mouse model of ELS which, when paired with adult stress, gives rise to depression-like phenotypes that are not seen after either stress alone.
You’ll explore the regulatory mechanisms which influence the expression of genes that are primed by ELS.
You’ll investigate how their looping, location and enhancer status is altered by ELS, and how this affects their expression upon additional adult stress.
The project will provide the framework to develop core research skills including:
We’re looking for a motivated student to join an exciting new research team within the area of neuroepigenetics to contribute human-relevant insight into stress mechanisms.
Our lab is part of the Southampton Neuroscience Group , which provides an outstanding environment for cutting-edge neuroscience research.
An interest in neuroscience and epigenetics, although students from a diverse range of disciplines are encouraged to apply.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Emily Brookes.
Email: e.brookes@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/oceanic-fingerprints-changing-monsoons-over-south-southeast-asia:
Increasing severity of floods and droughts under climate change are a major societal challenge.
As moisture fluxes increase in a warming climate, the contrast between wet and dry meteorological regimes, seasons and extreme events amplifies.
This research will focus on changes in the hydrological cycle of the Indian Peninsula and Maritime Southeast Asia, where monsoon rainfall is largely fed by moisture from the ocean.
Understanding and quantifying changes in the monsoons and tropical rain bands driven by oceanic warming are of paramount importance as new extremes, such as the recent devastating flooding events in Pakistan, impact hundreds of millions of people.
Whilst thermodynamic responses of the hydrological cycle under global warming are relatively well known, the atmospheric moisture transport response to ocean warming is complex and much less understood due to numerous atmospheric and oceanic feedbacks that are involved.
Using a variety of models and observations, the student will use and develop novel methods to explore how ocean warming is changing the regional hydrological cycle through shifts in evaporation and atmospheric moisture transport over the tropical Indian and Western Pacific oceans – the oceanic ‘fingerprints’ on changing monsoons.
For questions about the project, contact Dr Nikolaos Skliris.
Email: N.Skliris@noc.soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-role-of-iron-in-nitrogen-fixation-photosynthesis:
Iron is essential for marine primary production due to its enzymatic requirement in key metabolic functions such as photosynthesis, respiration and the acquisition of macronutrients such as nitrogen fixation [1].
Oceanic photosynthesis powers life in the oceans and is fundamental to the carbon-cycle and hence the climate [2].
In many parts of the ocean, particularly the Southern Ocean, iron availably limits the growth of phytoplankton.
As the Arctic Ocean warms and becomes ice free, primary productivity, which underpins the entire Arctic ecosystem, has already increased, but the future trend is unclear due to the ongoing debate on Arctic micro-nutrient limitation and the imbalance in the Arctic nitrogen budget [3].
Nitrogen fixation, which has a large iron requirement may therefore be a critical source of nitrogen to sustain contemporary and future ocean productivity.
We aim to carryout shipboard bioassays to investigate the role of iron for nitrogen fixation in the Arctic and to understand how iron, nutrients and light control photosynthesis in the iron-limited Southern Ocean.
This project will provide important new insights into the role of iron in both nitrogen fixation and photosynthesis in a time when the climate is changing rapidly.
For questions about the project, email Professor Maeve Lohan:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/the-role-of-singlet-oxygen-signaling-in-plant-responses-to:
Climate change provides a major challenge for plants as they cope with increases in abiotic stresses such as high or low temperature and drought.
These conditions will negatively affect responses to biotic stresses caused by insect herbivores and pathogens, and contribute to the ongoing problem of providing sufficient food for an increasing World population (1).
Temperature stress and drought can result in the production of reactive oxygen species including singlet oxygen, which signals to the rest of the plant that it is in a stressful environment.
Seedling development is a particularly sensitive time during the plant life cycle and seedling damage is a major cause of crop loss.
We have shown that singlet oxygen production in seedlings has a similar transcriptional signature to heat stress (2) and we hypothesise that singlet oxygen signalling from the chloroplast sends an SOS signal to the seedling that permits acclimation to environmental stresses.
In this project we will test this hypothesis by examining the ability of Arabidopsis mutants (e.g.
3) compromised in SOS to withstand different stress regimes including heat and drought.
We will then use our Arabidopsis findings to investigate the SOS response in important crop species including wheat and rice.
For questions about the project, email Professor Matthew Terry:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/time-variability-on-turbulent-mixing-of-heat-around-melting:
The West Antarctic Peninsula is a highly dynamic region that has undergone significant changes in atmospheric temperature, sea ice and glacial ice over the past 40 years.
Much of this variability is driven by the ocean, where large volumes of warm Circumpolar Deep Water intrude onto the shelves and are modified by mixing processes prior to reaching marine-terminating glaciers and ice shelves at the coast.
Quantifying and understanding the mechanisms behind these processes is key to understanding the heat budget of the WAP and its sensitivity to future atmospheric and ocean forcing.
Using a range of datasets, this project will seek to answer:
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Alexander Brearley:
Email: jambre@bas.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/triggers-feedbacks-of-climate-tipping-points:
Abrupt changes in the climate system could have potentially devastating socio-economic impacts.
Simulating them in future climate scenarios is therefore of great importance.
Future climate change scenarios are often based on the average or mean of climate model projections where abrupt changes and tipping points can appear in one or a few realizations of a subset of the models (Drijfhout et al.
2015).
Additionally, climate models are often tuned to simulate a stable version of the present-day climate and remain untested in abrupt climate shift scenarios.
We propose to extend the findings of Drijfhout et al.
(2015) with the newest generation of climate model simulations, generating a catalog of abrupt changes, along with analysis of the relevant feedbacks that may lead to abrupt change.
For instance, changes in ocean heat and freshwater transports have a large impact on the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC), which is the main mode of ocean circulation in the Atlantic and impacts European climate.
The initial focus will be on AMOC tipping points, with an additional focus on other tipping points that can be chosen from the catalogue of abrupt changes (i.e.
abrupt sea ice loss, vegetation changes, etc.).
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Jennifer Mecking:
Email: jmecki@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/uncovering-drivers-non-alcoholic-fatty-liver-disease-progression:
The prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is steadily increasing.
This project will establish 3D organoid culture systems to model the disease, with the aim of improving our understanding of the mechanisms driving disease progression toward end stage liver disease and developing strategies to reverse NAFLD.
Within the Southampton NIHR: National Institute for Health and Care Research Biomedical Research Centre, we are internationally regarded for the high quality of our translational research in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Working with world-leading experts and surgeons at University Hospital Southampton, we are establishing a laboratory-based project aimed at improving our understanding of the mechanisms driving disease progression toward end stage liver disease and developing strategies to reverse NAFLD.
The project will use state-of the-art organoid, metabolomic, transcriptomic and bioinformatic analyses with 3D imaging technologies to identify potential therapeutic strategies.
We are seeking a talented individual who is keen to undertake research in experimental medicine, incorporating pre-clinical biomedical approaches.
We will provide training and access to relevant taught courses.
You will have laboratory experience at undergraduate level.
Experience with cell and tissue culture, omic analysis or imaging would be a bonus.
The supervisory team will deliver focused training, so a willingness to learn new approaches and ways of thinking is the most important skill required.
You will undertake a series of studies that enable you to establish liver organoids derived from patient samples, to generate an accessible and scalable disease model in which to investigate mechanisms driving NAFLD progression at the cellular level.
This would allow you to test gene functions implicated in NAFLD through multimodal approaches and to perform drug screening in vitro, aimed at treating liver disease
You'll need one of the following qualifications in biological/biomedical sciences or an allied subject:
This is a NIHR Southampton BRC Studentship.
The project is funded for 4 years and welcomes applicants from the UK.
Funding will cover fees and a stipend at current research council rates.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Nicole Prior.
Email: N.R.J.Prior@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/understanding-recent-land-use-change-snowdonia-sustainable-future-uplands:
The UK’s sustainable future rests on a holistic appraisal of rural landscape function/land use and the state of critical ecosystem services.
In upland Britain, important concerns include moving towards net-zero carbon targets for land-use, increasing the forest estate, and maintaining or enhancing biodiversity while supporting upland farming.
Planning is better informed by knowledge of recent change in the upland system related to the large-scale social and economic transformations of the 20 th Century.
This project focuses on Snowdonia, a mountainous region of North Wales that includes the extensive Snowdonia National Park.
Here, a range of human impacts (for example, deforestation, moor burning, afforestation, fluctuating levels of grazing pressure, and pasture improvement - including the addition of nitrogen) have affected the landscape-scale mosaic of vegetation cover and inputs and outputs of carbon, nutrients and pollutants to upland waters and downstream locations.
The link between land use/farming/forestry practices of the past 150 years and carbon storage potential in peat/quality of inland waters can be demonstrated using modern palaeoecological techniques applied to peat and lake sedimentary records.
The work would contribute to the development of upland land-management strategies in partnership with Natural Resources Wales (Bangor).
For questions about the project, contact:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/understanding-the-role-of-cell-motility-in-resource:
Phytoplankton are often considered as drifters that are at the mercy of oceanic currents.
However, many phytoplankton species are motile and can exhibit motile responses to light, temperature and nutrients.
The prevalence of motility as a trait (e.g.
>50% of Baltic Sea phytoplankton species were classed as motile) suggests that this ability is of major ecological significance, with evidence for important roles both at the microscale (e.g.
exploiting heterogeneous nutrient patches) and the mesoscale (e.g.
vertical migration or formation of thin layers).
However, the many aspects of phytoplankton motility remain poorly understood, making it difficult to understand the wider contribution of this trait to phytoplankton physiology and ecology.
This project will address the following major questions:
How do abundant phytoplankton groups with distinct physiologies (e.g.
haptophytes, cryptophytes and dinoflagellates) differ in their motile responses to light, temperature and nutrients?
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Glen Wheeler:
Email: glw@mba.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/older-people-access-to-digitalised-healthcare:
In this fully funded PhD project, you will investigate the ability of older people with complex care needs to adapt to an increasingly digitalised health care landscape.
As healthcare needs increase, online health resources have become more popular to help people take charge of their own health management in an economically sustainable way.
However, this raises concerns about how those with limited access to online resources can be supported.
In collaboration with the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership, your research will examine the personal support networks for older people with complex care needs in marginalised communities, identifying implications for policies and healthcare practices.
You’ll use a mixed methods approach, developing quantitative social network analysis and qualitative network interviews.
Your research will be supported by a supervisory team with expertise in social science health research and clinical experience working with older people with complex care needs.
You also need previous experience of health research in community settings, and skills and knowledge in quantitative and qualitative research methods.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Dr Ivalyo Vassilev.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/unpicking-the-anthropocene-in-the-hawaiian-archipelago:
For questions about the project, email Professor Andrew Cundy:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/unraveling-oceanic-multi-element-cycles-using-single-cell:
Oceanic elemental cycles are strongly influenced by marine microbes, including phytoplankton.
Although it has long been recognised that the elemental composition of microbes is a key determinant of these cycles (1), analytical limitations mean current understanding is typically based on observations of limited numbers of elements averaged across mixed communities.
Appreciation of potentially important heterogeneities at individual and population levels and a more holistic understanding of multi-element cycling is thus lacking (1, 2).
Consequently, single-organism/cell analysis is a fast-growing field, but many techniques are hampered by low throughput.
We aim to apply a new analytical tool (Time of Flight Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry, ToF-ICPMS) to facilitate rapid multi-element analysis of individual marine phytoplankton cells (3) and potentially higher trophic levels.
This project will focus on the key question of how variability in (co-)limiting nutrient availability influences the multi-elemental cellular composition of non-limiting nutrients (2), which has significant consequences for understanding coupled nutrient cycling (1, 2).
Although this problem has been addressed in specific cases on an element-by-element basis (1), we lack true multi-element (‘ionomic’) treatments (2), which also account for the heterogeneity of mixed natural communities.
The project will thus facilitate a deeper understanding of multi-elemental ocean biogeochemical cycles.
For questions about the project, email Professor Mark Moore:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/unravelling-southwest-indian-ocean-biological-productivity:
The Mozambique channel and Madagascan waters are a region of the southwestern Indian Ocean with complex circulation patterns that play a key role in the distribution of marine species and regulation of local ecosystems [1].
Unsupervised machine learning techniques can help classify the nonlinear interactions of these circulation patterns and determine those impacting biological productivity [2], where local economies are dependent on marine living resources.
Although the flows around Madagascar are known to affect the southern Mozambique channel, they may also influence dynamics farther north because of high eddy activity within the channel.
The anticyclonic and cyclonic eddies result in warmer and cooler conditions [3], affecting nutrient distributions.
This then impacts phytoplankton, zooplankton, fish and higher trophic levels, and the northern part of the channel that is on the annual migration routes of the Indian Ocean tuna stocks [1].
The biological effects of the eddies aren’t fully understood but, in a changing climate, could affect the fisheries on which local populations depend both for food and livelihoods.
This project will apply machine learning to long-term satellite and in situ observations to unravel the effects of the mesoscale dynamics around Madagascar and in the Mozambique Channel on biological productivity there.
For questions about the project, contact Professor Meric Srokosz:
Email: mas@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/using-acoustics-how-small-cracks-develop-into-burst-pipes:
We’re offering a 3.5-year fully funded PhD position to support water network prognostics through monitoring pipeline leak progression.
While pipe bursts usually receive media coverage, there is little known about what leads to a burst and how a small leak transforms into a major burst.
This PhD project will use strong industrial links to explore the mechanisms behind the leak-to-burst transition and develop acoustic-based methods for monitoring this evolution.
You’ll investigate the characteristics of leak noise, and work towards identifying algorithms for lifespan prognosis.
As well as gaining practical skills in physics, data processing, and experimentation, you'll make a valuable contribution to an untapped field of research using theoretical and experimental approaches, including flow visualisation.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/using-machine-learning-to-improve-predictions-of-ocean-carbon:
Carbon dioxide (CO2) dissolved in seawater is used by marine phytoplankton to grow, supporting the ocean’s foodweb and resulting in a downward flux of organic matter (the 'biological carbon pump' (BCP)) that sequesters carbon in the ocean and maintains atmospheric CO2 concentrations roughly 1/3 lower than in its absence.
However, we lack an understanding of the relative importance of the BCP’s drivers and how they will respond to climate change, and, consequently, a robust way of predicting change in the BCP itself.
Such change may decrease the ocean's role as a carbon reservoir, impacting national commitments to "net-zero".
The recent IPCC Report ( https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/ , Ch.5, section 5.4.4.2) asserted “high confidence that feedbacks to climate will arise from alterations to the magnitude and efficiency of the BCP”, but that the attributed drivers differ significantly.
A deeper understanding is needed of the BCP in our predictive models where there is no consensus on how it is represented.
Machine learning (ML) techniques provide powerful tools to infer the underlying dominant causal influences on the BCP and how they shift into the future across a range of earth system models, allowing more robust assessment of global change in the BCP.
For questions about the project, contact Doctor Adrian Martin:
Email: adrian.martin@noc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/vulnerability-of-coastal-transport-networks-to-natural-hazards:
Vulnerability of transportation networks to natural hazards represents a fundamental challenge for climate adaptation and disaster risk reduction.
This interdisciplinary project will explore vulnerability of road and rail networks, and of users, to natural hazards in low-lying coastal areas.
It will use quantitative methods and approaches from network science, natural hazards management, social science, human geography, and built-environment geography.
Transportation networks such as roads and railways are fundamental to societal functioning, but are especially vulnerable to disruption and fragmentation by natural hazards.
Failure of transportation networks can turn a hazard event into a disaster.
This might be by
Knowing how a road or rail network could fragment or fail from disruption by natural hazard, who will be affected, and with what likelihood of occurrence, is therefore valuable information for authorities, managers, and planners of urban systems.
However, standard vulnerability assessments often do not account for network connectivity, and indirect impacts on users.
This means they miss key diagnostic for systemic vulnerability to network failure that means assessments may underestimate the potential impacts of extreme events.
The project will address research questions such as:
This project will deliver critical, quantitative insight into climate adaptation of critical infrastructure for societal resilience and disaster risk reduction.
The postgraduate student who leads this project will build transferrable skills in stakeholder analysis, multi-criteria analysis, geospatial analysis, open-source code (e.g., Python), and science communication through clear technical writing (e.g., for peer-review publication) and presentations to broad audiences.
If English is not your first language, you'll need an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) minimum level of 6.5 with 6.0 in all components.
Full tuition fees will be paid and a tax-free stipend of up to £17,668 per year for up to 3.5 years.
For an initial conversation, email Dr Eli Lazarus (e.d.lazarus@soton.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/projects/x-ray-imaging-property-characterisation-of-porous-materials:
Porous materials perform a range of functions including lightweight load bearing, impact protection, energy absorption and thermal or acoustic insulation.
They have a range of applications such as aerospace and transport structures, protective panelling, cargo packaging, and insulation.
The properties of porous materials are dependent on their composition and the detailed geometry of the porous architecture.
Foams with random architectures can be produced by chemical or physical blowing, or by incorporating hollow fillers to produce syntactic foams.
More controlled and ordered architectures can be produced using additive manufacturing (AM) techniques to control the locations where material is deposited.
The complexity of these porous architectures makes identification and prediction of properties difficult.
Despite the improvement in AM architectures, foams are still prone to defects due to their random architecture.
X-ray computed tomography (XCT) is a powerful tool that enables volumetric imaging and can identify porous materials' architecture.
When used in conjunction with modelling, volumetric imaging from XCT enables predictions of functionally relevant material properties.
High resolution XCT imaging produces digital models of porous geometries that can be analysed through finite element analysis to predict properties and behaviour.
However, these high fidelity images and predictions are time consuming, expensive, and not always possible for high-density materials and large parts, both of which can lead to high X-ray attenuation and poor contrast.
This project aims to:
The goal will be to enable these predictions using low resolution XCT images that can be obtained rapidly for larger parts or denser materials.
You will make use of facilities and expertise in additive manufacturing (AM), mechanical testing, characterisation and the µ-VIS X-ray Imaging Centre at the University of Southampton.
You'll work in collaboration with a UK government defence organisation as a partner and sponsor of the project.
You will have the opportunity to support and assess materials that are being developed for use in state-of-the-art defence systems where a broad range of environments will be encountered.
There will be opportunities for placement within the sponsor organisation and potential for future employment.
If you wish to discuss any details of the project informally, please contact Associate Professor Andrew Hamilton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/fee-status:
The University of Southampton charges 2 levels of tuition fee:
The amount you pay will depend on which you meet the criteria for.
This is your university 'fee status'.
Your fee status is based on the criteria for who should be charged home fees in England, as set out by the Government in The Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 as amended.
We make our assessments in line with these regulations.
For further information about the criteria please visit the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) .
We assess your fee status when you apply and will let you know your fee status and how much you'll pay in your offer letter.
Sometimes we might need more information to help us make the right decision.
If so we'll ask you to complete our fee status questionnaire.
If you believe that the fee status you have been assigned does not fit your circumstances, please contact us to discuss this matter.
There are some circumstances where you may become eligible for home fees after you have started your course.
We recommend that you check whether you meet the requirements for any of the ‘home’ fee categories , and contact us if you think you need to change your fee status to ‘home’ fees in time for the next year of your course.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships:
Find a scholarship to help fund your studies.
Some are automatically awarded if you meet the criteria, while others require an application.
Scholarships are a type of financial aid that don't need to be repaid.
They can help to cover tuition fees or living costs and might be awarded based on academic merit or skill, achievement or through a competitive application process.
Whether or not you can apply to some scholarships will depend on whether you'll pay UK or international tuition fees.
This is your "fee status".
Find out what your fee status is before applying.
Check your fee status

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/terms-conditions:
These conditions apply to all scholarships offered by the University of Southampton.
To get your scholarship, you must:
You cannot defer your scholarship if you defer your studies.
By accepting a scholarship, you agree to:
Successful applicants will receive the award as a tuition fee discount.
If the amount we award is more than your tuition fees, the tuition fees will be covered in full.
You will not get any additional funding.
No cash alternative is available and the award cannot be used in place of any required deposit.
The tuition fee discount will be taken off the full invoice at the start of each academic year.
If you withdraw or are suspended from a course before completion, entitlement to the fee waiver will be applied in line with the refund policy.
Undergraduate scholarships will be awarded for all years of undergraduate study subject to standard progression throughout the course.
This applies to the:
The University of Southampton reserves the right to take back a scholarship award if:
If we take back your scholarship award, you will need to pay back the money.
The University of Southampton reserves the right to review and change the scholarships we offer.
Email international-scholarships@southampton.ac.uk to get the full terms and conditions.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/undergraduate/southampton-undergraduate-bursary:
The Southampton undergraduate bursary is a Higher Education institution (HEI) bursary.
HEI bursaries do not need to be repaid.
This bursary is for students with a low household income and is paid to your bank account each year you study.
For 2025-26 entry, if your income is up to £23,200, you will receive £2,000.
If your income is between £23,201 and £36,200, you will receive £1,000.
Bursary thresholds may change for each academic year.
Your bursary will be based on the year you start your course.
To get this bursary you must:
You can still receive this bursary if your fees are paid by the NHS and you're starting your course in 2025-26.
You'll also get the bursary if you study abroad.
You may be eligible if you return from a Pause in Study.
Contact the Financial Support Team for advice.
Your income will be assessed by Student Finance England , Student Finance Wales , Student Finance Northern Ireland or Student Awards Agency Scotland .
You are not eligible if you:
If you are eligible for the bursary, we will email you using the address registered with Student Finance.
You need to apply for a Student Finance maintenance loan and choose the option to have your loan means tested.
Student Finance will then complete a household income assessment, with your or your parent's consent and share the information with the University.
If you want to be considered for a bursary without applying for a maintenance loan, complete the Student Finance application form for your awarding body and request a loan of £0.
We review household income information each October.
You must have a household income showing by 31 May to be eligible to receive the bursary in the same year.
We pay the bursary in 3 instalments:
Bursaries are paid for the current academic year and cannot be applied retrospectively.
If your income decreases by 15% or more since your assessment, contact Student Finance for a current-year assessment.
This may lead to a higher maintenance loan as well as a higher bursary.
Student Finance can reassess your household income at any time.
If you have a higher income, they will email you to let you know if your bursary will reduce or if you are now ineligible.
You must keep your Student Finance account contact details up to date.
If you are eligible for the Southampton undergraduate bursary, the amount of money you receive depends on the year you started your course.
If your income is between £0 to £16,000, your bursary will be £2,000.
If your income is between £16,001 and £30,000 your bursary will be £1,000.
If your income is between £0 to £16,000 your bursary will be £3,000.
If your income is between £16,001 and £25,000 your bursary will be £1,500.
You are not eligible for this bursary if your course fees are paid either in part or in full by the NHS.
This includes BM4 (years 2 to 4) and BM5 and BM6 (years 5 and 6).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/undergraduate/scholarships:
On this page you'll find scholarships for:
These scholarships are available for students starting undergraduate courses in 2025.
Other eligibility criteria may apply and we offer a mix of automatically awarded scholarships and those awarded on successful application.
Some scholarships are awarded in partnership with external funders and may apply to students from specific countries only.
Find out if you'll pay UK or international fees
View international scholarships only
These scholarships are available regardless of which course you study, but eligibility may depend on your home country.
These scholarships are available for specific courses only.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/engineering-excellence-scholarship:
Scholarships of £2,000 for each of the first 3 years of study, are available to new students studying a School of Engineering undergraduate programme.
The School of Engineering wants to foster a diverse generation of people who will change the perception of future engineering achievements.
We're offering this scholarship as part of the University's Widening Participation scheme to applicants from under-represented groups and students with contextual offers .
There are 10 scholarships available.
To be eligible for a scholarship you must:
You must not be in receipt of any external scholarship, more than or equal to your tuition fees.
We cannot accept late applications.
If your application is successful, you will receive confirmation in an email with an attached letter.
The scholarship is open for applicants from October 2024 until 5pm (UK time) on 30 April 2025.
We will contact you with the outcome of your application by the end of May 2025.
This is a competitive process and not all applications will be successful.
There are 3 stages to the shortlisting process.
The decision of the scholarship panel is final.
We do not offer feedback on our process.
Find out the terms and conditions of getting a scholarship .
Apply to study an undergraduate programme in our School of Engineering.
Complete the scholarship expression of interest form .
You will need to provide a 500-word personal statement explaining why you should receive this scholarship.
You will need your UCAS number and a valid email address.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/southampton-physics-astronomy-achievement:
These £5,000 stipend scholarships are available to new undergraduate students in physics and astronomy for the academic year beginning autumn 2025.
They’re intended to help well qualified students to study Physics and Astronomy at Southampton University, and to build greater inclusivity in our academic community.
There are 10 scholarships available – 5 based on merit, and another 5 for applicants who meet widening participation criteria.
They are renewable for subsequent years of study (subject to the applicant’s continuing academic performance) for up to £20,000 total.
Applications for this scholarship for 2025 entry are now closed.
The details on this page are for information only.
We'll update this page with information for 2026 entry in October.
We will only consider applicants who have an offer to study at Southampton University.
You must:
You must have submitted an application to study and be invited to an Applicant Day at the University of Southampton before you can apply for this scholarship.
You must submit your UCAS application by 31 January 2025.
Your essay is due no later than 7 days before your interview on Applicant Day.
We will score and rank all eligible applicants’ essays and their interview performances.
We will ask you questions on your essay as part of your interview so that we can be sure you’ve written it yourself.
The top scoring 5 applicants will be awarded a scholarship.
The remaining 5 scholarships will be awarded to the next highest ranking applicants who meet the widening participation criteria.
Applications will be assessed against this criteria individually and compared against all applications received for this scholarship.
The decision of the Head of School is final.
Successful applicants will have a stipend of £5,000 paid into their UK bank account in quarterly instalments.
Continuation of the scholarship from year 2 onwards is subject to maintaining first-class performance (70%) each year.
If first-class performance is maintained, the scholarship maybe received each year for the duration of the course, up to a maximum of 4 years.
Find out the conditions of getting a scholarship .
If you receive an offer from us, we’ll send you details of what you need to submit to be considered for the scholarship, as well as details on our Applicant Days and how to book one.
You will need to submit an essay of up to 500 words on a physics topic of your choice.
For more information or help, email admissionsPA@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/postgraduate/scholarships:
These scholarships are available for students starting postgraduate courses in 2025.
These scholarships are available regardless of which course you study.
These scholarships can be used for research master's or PhDs, depending on your eligibility, home country and course choice.
These scholarships can be used for any type of postgraduate course, depending on your eligibility, home country and course choice.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/black-futures:
The University offers a Black Futures scholarship scheme, for talented Black and Mixed-Black heritage UK-domiciled students who want to pursue a PhD at Southampton.
The scholarship provides:
To be eligible for this scholarship you must be resident in the UK, paying UK fees, and have applied for a PhD project in one of our faculties.
To be eligible for this scholarship you must also be from one of these backgrounds:
These categories are defined by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
The University must use these categories to enable reporting, however we recognise their inherent limitations.
Application for our Black Futures scholarship are now closed for projects starting in the 2025-26 academic year.
Applications for the 2026-27 academic year will re-open in Autumn 2025.
This is a competitive process - not all applications will be successful.
There are 3 stages to the shortlisting process:
Before applying, you should read our guidance on How to Apply for a Research Degree .
This scholarship funding is highly competitive and we encourage you to apply early.
If you have any questions, email: Doctoral-College@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/scholarships-great-egypt:
This scholarship gives you £10,000 off your tuition fees.
International students in Egypt applying for any 1 year MSc course within the Faculty of Medicine or the School of Engineering can apply for this scholarship.
It is offered in partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign.
Deadline: 30 April 2025 , 5pm (UK time)
To get this scholarship you must:
To apply for this scholarship:
Complete the expression of interest form

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/scholarships-great-france:
International students in France applying for any 1 year postgraduate master's course within the Faculty of Social Science can apply for this scholarship.
1.
apply to study for an eligible postgraduate master's course in the Faculty of Social Science 2.
Complete the scholarship expression of interest form by 30 April 2025, 5pm (UK time)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/scholarships-great-ghana:
International students in Ghana applying for any 1 year postgraduate master's course within the Faculty of Social Sciences or an eligible course in the Faculty of Environment and Life Sciences can apply for this scholarship.
Any 1 year postgraduate taught programme within the Faculty of Social Sciences or any of the following courses within the Faculty of Environment and Life Sciences:
apply to study for an eligible master's degree at the University of Southampton
2.
complete the scholarship expression of interest form by 30 April 2025, 5pm (UK time)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/postgraduate-uk/horizon-europe-fee-waiver:
We offer a fee waiver to support the UK re-joining Horizon Europe , the EU’s key funding programme for PhD research and innovation.
Our fees waiver funds the difference between UK and international tuition fees for 3.5 years.
To be eligible for this fees waiver you must have:
Albania, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland Israel, Italy, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Northern Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Cyprus, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom.
You do not need to make a separate application.
If you meet the eligibility criteria we will apply the fee waiver automatically.
The first steps to apply for a PhD are find a potential PhD supervisor , view current PhD projects or create your own PhD proposal .
You can use this funding with other schemes including:
We will write to you to let you know we have applied the fee waiver.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/postgraduate-uk/innovation-social-impact:
The Innovation and Social Impact scholarships are for outstanding UK students who want to pursue a PhD and make a difference in the world.
Your PhD could drive social impact by influencing policy, or could lead to innovation through a commercial research output or founding a new startup.
There are 2 paths for the Innovation and Social Impact scholarships:
This pathway is for students with an interest in enterprise activities or creating startups.
You will work with Future Worlds , the University’s on-campus startup accelerator.
They will guide and support you on how to commercialise your research or create a startup.
You'll carry out a standard PhD programme with a research project which has the potential to be commercialised by bringing new products or services to the market.
This could be either directly by founding a startup or indirectly through other companies.
This is for students with an interest in knowledge exchange and social impact.
Knowledge exchange is the collaborative process where knowledge, ideas and research are shared between researchers and the community to drive positive societal change.
You'll be supported by Public Policy Southampton , a team dedicated to creating policy impact at the University.
You'll benefit from initiatives like their Policy Associates scheme , placements and secondments and dedicated training.
You'll carry out a standard PhD programme with a research project focused on delivering social impact.
This could be by influencing or implementing policy, or engaging in other knowledge exchange activities.
To be eligible for this scholarship you must have:
If you have been working before you apply to study for a PhD, you will need to meet the University's criteria and good practice guidelines for accreditation of prior experiential and/or certificated learning.
You must apply by 5pm on Friday 14 March 2025.
If your application is successful we will email you in April 2025.
Before applying, you should read our guidance on How to apply for a research degree .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/equitable:
There are 3 scholarships covering all tuition fees for UK-domiciled students from racially minoritised ethnic backgrounds.
Deadline: 31 August 2025 , 5pm (UK time)
To get this equitable scholarship you must:
We cannot accept exchange or partner students.
Full time or part time MSc or MRes courses from these subject areas are eligible.
We do not accept students on 2 to 5 year MSc courses, PGCert, PGDip, PGR or Continuous Professional Development (CPD) courses.
For applications made on or before 5 July, we will contact you:
For applications made between 5 July and 31 August, we will contact you by 11 September with an outcome.
If your application is successful, you will receive confirmation in writing.
All scholarship offers are final, and scholarships cannot be deferred.
There are 4 stages to the shortlisting process:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/business-postgraduate-uk:
Scholarships of £9,000 are available to home fee paying students studying an eligible postgraduate master’s at Southampton Business School.
To be eligible for this scholarship you must:
You do not need to apply.
If you meet the eligibility criteria, we will award you this scholarship and let you know by email.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/southampton-genomics-talent-scholarship:
3 scholarships of £2,000 off tuition fees are available to UK and international students applying to study MSc Genomics .
To apply for this scholarship you must:
We will contact you to confirm the outcome of your scholarship application.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/history-patricia-mather-helen-patterson:
Scholarships of £9,250 are available to UK students and others who pay home fees studying for a postgraduate master’s degree in History.
There are up to 2 scholarships available.
If you're awarded the scholarship, you’ll get £9250 off your tuition fees of your first year of postgraduate study.
To be eligible for a scholarship, you must:
Find out what equivalent qualifications we accept .
You must not be getting an external scholarship.
You must submit your application for MA History by 15 July 2025.
You do not need to apply for the scholarship separately.
If your application is successful, you will receive confirmation in writing via email.
All scholarship offers are final.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/ma-holocaust-scholarships:
3 scholarships to reduce tuition fees are available to both UK and international students applying for the MA Holocaust: History, Experience, Heritage in 2025.
The Parkes Institute for the Study of Relations between Jews and non-Jews is offering:
Deadline: Tuesday 9 September 2025, midday UK time.
Write your 500-word personal statement explaining:
Email your personal statement to parkes@soton.ac.uk before the deadline.
You only need to send 1 application to be considered for both the James Parkes and Sayers Family scholarships.
The quality of your applicantion and the relevance of your research project to the broad remit of the Institute (Jewish/non-Jewish relations; use of Special Collections) will be the major consideration when assessing applications.
Financial need will be considered but will not be a major determining factor in our decision-making.
If you want your financial circumstances to be considered, you should provide supporting documentation, such as evidence of incomings and outgoings when you apply.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/philosophy-david-humphris-norman:
These £3000 scholarships are available to UK students and others who pay home fees studying for a postgraduate master’s degree in Global Business Ethics and the Philosophy of Management.
There are up to 3 scholarships available.
If you're awarded the scholarship, you’ll get £3000 off your tuition fees for your first year of postgraduate study.
You must submit your application for MA Global Business Ethics and the Philosophy of Management by 15 July 2025.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/postgraduate/scholarships/southampton-philosophy-ma-scholarship:
There is 1 scholarship of £9250 available to UK students.
This covers the full UK tuition fees for a student studying a postgraduate master's degree in Philosophy or Global Business Ethics and the Philosophy of Management .
Deadline to apply : 15 July 2025
The deadline is to apply for an eligible course, you do not need to apply for the scholarship separately.
Check which fees you will pay
Submit your application for an eligible Philosophy master's degree by 15th July 2025.
If you are awarded the scholarship, you will receive a confirmation email.
Only 1 student will be awarded the scholarship.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/southampton-photonics-impact-scholarship:
There are 3 scholarships available to international students applying to study MSc Optical Engineering .
If you are awarded this scholarship, you'll get £15,000.
Deadline: 7 April 2025 , 5pm (UK time)
Check if you will pay the Overseas fee .
If your application is successful, you will receive a confirmation email by 28 April 2025.
This is a competitive process and not all applicants will be successful.
The selection team will award this scholarship to a total of 3 students by assessing your CV, motivation statement, and academic track-record.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/alumni-music:
This scholarship is for home fee paying students studying Master of Music (MMus) or MA International Music Management programmes starting in 2025.
There are 2 scholarships available.
If you're awarded the scholarship, you'll get £2000 at the end of your first semester.
You can apply for the scholarships until 5pm (UK time) on 30 May 2025.
The quality of your application and the contribution you hope to make to the Department community will be considered when assessing applications.
Financial need will be considered but will not be the determining factor in decision-making.
We need to have detailed information to ensure that the process is fair and equitable to all.
We will consider only basic essential needs rather than non-essential lifestyle expenditure.
If you want your financial circumstances to be considered, provide supporting documentation, such as evidence of incomings and outgoings, to your application form.
Submit your 250-word personal statement to Dr Helen Dromey, h.m.dromey@soton.ac.uk
You should explain:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/postgraduate-uk/study-in-art-media-technology-scholarship:
There are 14 scholarships available for UK postgraduate students studying an eligible course in the Department of Art and Media Technology.
Successful applicants will have 50% of their tuition fees paid for the duration of their course.
Deadline to apply: 1 July 2025
MA Fine Art (part-time or full-time)
MA Contemporary Curating (part-time or full-time)
MA Arts and Cultural Leadership (full-time)
MSc Creative Technologies (full-time)
We will email you by 15 July 2025 if you've been awarded this scholarship.
The decision on the scholarships is final.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/nihr-insight-programme:
The National Institute for Health and care Research (NIHR) South Central INSIGHT programme (SCIP): Inspiring Students into Research Scheme.
This new initiative, launched in June 2024, is part of the NIHR Academy’s expanded portfolio of career support for health and social care professionals.
The University of Southampton and Oxford Brookes University are co-leading NIHR SCIP, in collaboration with University of Portsmouth, University of Winchester and Southampton Solent University.
The NIHR INSIGHT programme funding pays your tuition fees and you'll receive a stipend (living allowance) of up to £20,780 tax-free.
You are eligible for this scholarship if you are working towards or have recently completed professional registration with one of the following approved regulatory bodies (not including doctors and dentists) by September 2025.
You must also be at an early stage of your career, with up to 5 years full time equivalent practice in your profession.
Professions supported by the SCIP programme and eligible to take the MRes Clinical and Health course include:
You can apply for the scholarship until 11pm (UK time) on 7 April 2025.
Apply to study one of the following eligible SCIP courses:
Complete the application form
For further information please email scip.insight@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/scdtp:
The University of Southampton and 3 other universities make up the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP).
This collaboration is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
This studentship provides funding for a wide range of disciplinary pathways for the following awards:
For more information about masters programmes under each eligible pathway , please contact the pathway leads for more information.
This funding pays for a Research-in-Practice placement, your tuition fees and a stipend (living allowance) of up to £19,237, tax free.
As part of this award there are additional funding opportunities to support your research.
To be eligible for a scholarship you must have an offer to study for a masters degree or PhD in one of the following disciplinary pathways:
SCDTP accepts applications from UK and International students.
UK students must meet one of the following:
If you don't meet these criteria you are classed as an International student.
To comply with visa condtions, international students can only apply for full-time courses.
The SCDTP does not provide any funds to cover visa costs.
You can find more visa information from The Student Hub and the SCDTP .
You must apply by 5pm on Friday 17 January 2025.
Find out about the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) conditions and view the ESRC postgraduate funding guide .
If your application is successful we will contact you in April 2025.
If you have any questions, email scdtp@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/wsa-progression:
Up to £3000 is available to all eligible UK Winchester School of Art graduates who go directly from a bachelor’s degree to a Master's degree.
The amount you receive depends on the grade of your bachelor’s degree.
If you are awarded a:
This is a merit based scholarship.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/international:
There are many ways to help fund your studies at Southampton as an international student.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/international/scholarships:
These scholarships are available for students starting in 2025 who will pay international fees.
There are both University of Southampton funded and externally funded options available to suit your needs.
View undergraduate scholarships for all students
View postgraduate scholarships for all students
These scholarships are available if you're studying an undergraduate course.
These scholarships can be used for either postgraduate taught or research programmes, depending on your eligibility, home country and course choice.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/engineering-global-talent-scholarship:
20 scholarships of £3,000 are available to international students in their first year of study on an undergraduate or postgraduate taught degree within the School of Engineering.
Deadline: 28 April 2025 , 5pm (UK time)
All undergraduate or postgraduate taught courses in the following Engineering subjects are eligible:
If your application is successful, you will receive a confirmation email.
This is a competitive process, and not all applications will be successful.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/international/scholarships/medical-technology-innovation-design-masters:
£3000 is available to international students studying MSc Medical Technology, Innovation and Design .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/merit-undergraduate:
The following merit scholarships are available to international students and offer up to £3,000 off the first year of tuition fees:
Other eligibility criteria depend on which school offers your course.
Please note that merit scholarships for international undergraduate students are awarded based on standard academic programme eligibility criteria as displayed on individual course pages.
For scholarships offered by Southampton Business School, the School of Physics and Astronomy, the School of Mathematics and Southampton Law School, you must both exceed your offer and achieve either:
For scholarships offered by the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, the School of Economic, Social and Political Science and the Southampton Education School, you must both exceed your offer and achieve either:
For all other schools, you must achieve either:
This applies to courses run by Biological Science, Geography and Environmental Science, Ocean and Earth Science, and Psychology.
These scholarships are not available to students studying:
We award eligible students discounts of £1,000 for each A or A* grade above the standard offer for courses run by:
For example, if you need A, B and B in your A levels and you get A*, A and B, you will get £2,000 towards your first year tuition fees.
We award eligible students discounts of £1,000 for each A* grade above the standard offer for courses run by:
For example, if you need A, A and B in your A levels and you get A*, A and A, you will get £1,000 towards your first year tuition fees.
We award eligible students discounts of £1,000 for each A or A* grade for the following courses:
We award eligible students discounts of £1,000 for each A or A* grade for courses run by:
For example, if you need A, A and B in your A levels and you get A, A and A, you will get £3,000 towards your first year tuition fees.
The most you can get is £3,000.
The scholarships apply only to the first year of your tuition fees.
This scholarship is available to Canadian citizens enrolling in any of our undergraduate law programmes in 2025.
It offers £1,000 for each study year.
Visit the scholarship page to find out more information.
You do not need to apply for merit scholarships.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/postgraduate-uk/presidential-bursaries:
The Southampton Presidential bursaries are for international postgraduate researchers.
The scholarship funds the difference between UK and international level tuition fees.
These PhD bursaries are open to all international candidates demonstrating exceptional academic performance.
The bursaries have been awarded for this year.
We'll update this page with information for 2026 entry in November.
Find the equivalent international qualifications for your country.
If you meet the eligibility criteria, your Faculty will apply to the Doctoral College for the bursary for you.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-becas-chile:
Becas Chile is one of the Chilean government’s main student funding schemes.
It supports Chileans studying at postgraduate level overseas.
It aims to contribute to Chile’s innovation and competitiveness.
This scholarship is for postgraduate study, excluding LLM and MBA degrees.
You can apply for funding to study a master’s or PhD course.
This scholarship covers:
You must have either an unconditional offer from the University of Southampton or an offer conditional on English language.
You must return to Chile after your course finishes.
When you return, you must stay in Santiago for:
Apply for the Becas Chile scholarship .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-chevening:
Funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) and partner organisations, Chevening provides fully funded scholarships, leaving you free to focus on achieving your academic goals and enjoying the experience of a lifetime.
This scholarship is for postgraduate study.
The awards are typically for a one-year master’s degree.
You will live and study in the UK for a year, during which time you will develop professionally and academically, grow your network, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships.
If you have ambition, leadership qualities, and a strong academic background, we encourage you to apply.
As well as the standard scholarships, we also offer a Chevening-Southampton scholarship.
This is open to master's students from any eligible country who choose the University as their first choice institution.
Find out if you’re eligible and how to apply on Chevening’s website .
Meet some of our most recent scholars as they share their experience of being a Chevening Scholar at the University of Southampton:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-china-scholarship-council:
The China Scholarship Council (CSC) offers scholarships to Chinese students who wish to study a PhD programme outside of China.
The University of Southampton is recognised by the China Scholarship Council as a partner institute.
This scholarship covers your full tuition fees subject to successful application for a CSC award for living costs.
We will only consider applicants who have an offer to study for a PhD at Southampton University.
You must also either:
You cannot apply if you already have a PhD degree.
Identify a research area or academic supervisor for your research topic.
Contact the Faculty Postgraduate Research Admissions team or your proposed supervisor to find out about CSC scholarship opportunities.
3.
Apply for a PhD programme and state in your application that you wish to apply for China Scholarship Council funding.
We recommend that you submit your application by 31 December.
4.
If you get an offer to study and are nominated by the faculty for a CSC award, you can apply to the CSC for the maintenance scholarship .
We expect to be able to choose the final candidates by the end of February 2025.
If you are chosen, we will send you a fee waiver letter and tell the CSC that you have been nominated for this scholarship.
If you are nominated, you will need to apply to the CSC for living costs scholarship funding under the ‘ Southampton-CSC joint scholarship channel ’ in March.
Check the CSC’s website for details.
The CSC will announce the results in June.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-colfuturo:
The Foundation for the Future of Colombia (COLFUTURO) contributes to the development of the country by generating opportunities for the postgraduate training of Colombian professionals of academic excellence in the best programs in the world.
COLFUTURO provides affordable loans to help Colombian students pay for their postgraduate studies.
The University of Southampton offers a 15% tuition fee discount to students with a COLFUTURO scholarship.
This scholarship is for admission to the first year of a full-time taught master’s or each year of a full-time postgraduate research degree.
For more information or for help, email international-scholarships@soton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-commonwealth-distance-learning:
There are 10 scholarships to cover tuition fees for students from certain developing Commonwealth countries.
This is for students applying to study an online master’s degree from their home country in MSc Gerontology (Distance Learning) or MSc Global Ageing and Policy (Distance Learning) .
Deadline: 20 May 2025 , 5pm (UK time)
These scholarships are offered by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission , and funded by the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).
To apply for this distance learning scholarship:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-commonwealth-masters:
These scholarships are offered by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission and funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
They are for students from eligible low and middle income Commonwealth countries who want to study for a full-time taught master’s degree at a UK university.
Candidates will be chosen based on:
This scholarship is for study across a range of subject areas.
It’s offered to students whose studies fall under one of these themes:
The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission provides more information on this scholarship .
The Commission will normally only fund your first UK master’s degree.
You’ll need to provide justification If you’re applying for a second UK master’s degree.
Apply through your local national nominating agency or non-governmental organisation .
Apply for your master’s degree at Southampton, stating that you wish to be considered for Commonwealth Scholarship funding.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-commonwealth-phd:
These scholarships are offered by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission and funded by the UK Department for International Development.
They are for students from least-developed Commonwealth countries and fragile states who want to study for a PhD in the UK.
You must also have either a first degree of at least upper second class (2:1) honours or a second class degree (2:2) and a relevant postgraduate qualification (a master’s degree) by September 2025.
It is offered to students whose studies fall under one of these themes:
15 October 2024 at 4pm UK time (16:00 BST, 15:00 GMT)
Apply through your local national nominating agency or non-governmental organisation and charitable bodies .
Apply for your PhD programme at Southampton, stating that you wish to be considered for Commonwealth Scholarship funding.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-commonwealth-phd-high-income:
Please note the application deadline for this scholarship has now closed, the details on this webpage are for reference only.
The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (CSC) provides these scholarships jointly with UK universities to support world-class research.
Funded by the UK Department for Education (DfE) these scholarships are for high-quality graduates who have the potential to undertake world-class research of a developmental nature and to become influential leaders, teachers, or researchers in their home country.
This scholarship is for full time PhD study starting in September or October 2025.
It covers:
By the start of our proposed scholarship, you must also hold either a first degree of at least upper second class (2:1) honours standard or a second class degree (2:2) and a relevant postgraduate qualification (usually a master’s degree).
11 March 2025 at 16:00 UK time.
Complete an application using the CSC’s online application system .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-commonwealth-shared:
Commonwealth shared scholarships are for international postgraduate students from developing Commonwealth countries who may not otherwise be able to study in the United Kingdom.
They are offered on specific courses.
You will get:
Deadline: 12 December 2024 , 4pm (UK time)
This scholarship is awarded in partnership with the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission and must be applied to through their website.
You will be asked to create an account and will then fill out an online form.
You will need to complete your scholarship application by 12 December 2024, 4pm (UK time).
We'll contact shortlisted applicants from the middle of February, inviting them to apply for their chosen course using our online application form .
Apply on the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission website

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/excellence-scholarship:
£2,500 off your t uition fee for the first year of study is available to new international postgraduate students studying an in person postgraduate master’s programme.
You can receive this scholarship alongside another scholarship award as long as the combined value of the scholarships does not exceed the cost of your full fees
You do not need to apply for this scholarship, if you meet the eligibility criteria, we will award you this scholarship and let you know by email.
We determine residency as where you have been living for a 3-year period or longer before the start of the course.
This does not include where you are living for study purposes, if it is somewhere different from your place of permanent residency.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-commonwealth-split:
These scholarships are offered by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission and funded by the UK Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).
The scholarships are for current students from low and middle-income Commonwealth countries studying for a postgraduate PhD.
This will enable you to conduct research at a UK university for 12 months as part of your PhD studies.
Applications for Commonwealth Split-Site Scholarships closes at 16:00 UK time on Monday 16 December 2024.
Apply for this scholarship via the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission’s website.
Apply to study at Southampton as a Visiting Research Student .
You’ll need to show that there is a strong link between your university and the University of Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-fiderh:
FIDERH is the federal trust managed by the Central Bank of Mexico.
It provides affordable loans to help Mexican students pay for their postgraduate studies.
The University of Southampton offers a 20% tuition fee discount to students with a FIDERH scholarship.
This scholarship is for admission to a full-time one year taught master’s or for the first 3 years (36 months) of a full-time postgraduate research degree.
The scholarship is for programmes in the:
Faculty of Arts and Humanities
Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences (excluding Health Sciences)
Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences
Faculty of Social Sciences
Apply for postgraduate study at Southampton.
Apply directly to FIDERH after receiving your offer from us.
For more information or for help, email international-scholarships@soton.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/southampton-education-civic-scholarship:
The scholarship is available for 100% off your tuition fees during the entirety of the course for a UK or international student, applying to study the part-time, 2 year, MSc Education Online programme starting in 2025.
This does not apply to the MSc Education full time on campus course.
Deadline: 18 July 2025 , 5pm (UK time)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-fulbright:
Fulbright Awards are scholarships for American students wanting to study abroad.
Each year we offer one of these awards to a student wanting to study a master’s degree at the University of Southampton.
This scholarship is for postgraduate master’s study and offers:
You must meet the Fulbright eligibility requirements.
You must first have an offer to study at the University of Southampton before applying for this scholarship.
You can find more information about the application process and timelines on the US Fulbright website .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/southampton-ageing-gerontology-talent-scholarship:
2 scholarships of £5,000 are available to UK and international students applying to study an eligible postgraduate Ageing and Gerontology programme in 2025.
Deadline to apply: Applications currently closed .
Terms and conditions
We'll update this page with information for 2026 entry in October 2025.
To get this scholarship, you must hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study an eligible Ageing and Gerontology programme:
You must also meet your offer conditions, including the University’s English language requirements, by the admissions deadline.
We will contact you by 30 June 2025 to confirm the outcome of your scholarship application.
When you fill out the expression of interest form, make sure you include:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/southampton-teachers-postgraduate-scholarship:
This scholarship is a 10% discount on tuition fees for a UK or international student applying to study the part-time, 2-year MSc Education (Online) programme starting in 2025.
We'll issue the 10% discount as a tuition fee reduction on both years of part-time study.
For 2025 entry, the 10% discount for year 1 will be £462.50.
The amount discounted from your tuition fee will change with the programme fee each year, but will still be a 10% discount on the fee for that year.
This scholarship is limited to the part-time, online MSc Education programme, and is not applicable to the full-time, campus-based MSc Education programme.
You do not need to apply for this scholarship.
If you meet the eligibility criteria, we'll automatically consider you for this scholarship and inform you of the discount in your offer letter.
To be eligible for this scholarship, you must:
When you apply for MSc Education (Online), you'll need to upload a letter supporting your employment at an eligible school or further education provider.
This letter can be from your headteacher or line manager, and it should have the school or provider's official letterhead.
We'll include the full terms and conditions of the scholarship in your offer letter.
Follow our step-by-step application process for MSc Education (Online) .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-funed:
FUNED (Fundación Mexicana para la Educación, la Tecnología y la Ciencia) is a non-profit foundation that offers low-cost loans to Mexican students.
The University of Southampton offers a 15% tuition fee discount to students with a FUNED scholarship.
This scholarship is for postgraduate master’s study.
This scholarship is for study in the following areas:
You can find out if you’re eligible and apply for this scholarship on the FUNED website.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-great-mexico:
International students in Mexico applying for any 1 year postgraduate master's course within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities can apply for this scholarship.
apply to study for an eligible postgraduate degree at the University of Southampton

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-great-nigeria:
There are 2 scholarships available that offer £10,000 off your tuition fees.
International students in Nigeria applying for any 1 year postgraduate master's course within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities or the School of Education can apply for this scholarship.
complete the scholarship expression of interest form by 30 April 2025, (UK time)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-marshall:
Marshall Scholarships are for US students of high ability who want to study in the UK.
Marshall Scholars are identified as future leaders and ambassadors who will ‎strengthen the relationship between the UK and the US.
This scholarship is for postgraduate master’s or PhD study for up to 2 years.
You can find more information about this scholarship on the Marshall Scholarship website .
We will only consider applicants who have an offer to study at the University of Southampton.
You must meet the Marshall eligibility requirements .
Apply for the Marshall Scholarship .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-said:
Saïd Foundation Scholarships are for Syrian, Palestinian, Jordanian and Lebanese students who want to study in the UK.
The scholarships aim to help students achieve impact in their fields and bring benefits to their home countries.
This scholarship is for postgraduate master’s study and covers:
You must be a citizen of Syria, Lebanon, Jordan or Palestine.
You must also be living in one of these countries.
The Saïd Foundation may consider Syrian citizens who are living outside of these countries.
31 October, to start your course next year.
Apply to study for an eligible one-year master’s programme.
Apply for this scholarship on the Saïd Foundation website.
"I chose University of Southampton because they have two important key points.
Firstly, they offer a high quality of education, and they are ranked one of the best universities in computer science, especially in Artificial Intelligence field.
Secondly, they offer great support for students, which makes it a suitable environment to develop new interests, learn new skills and meet new people with different background and cultures.”
Analle Abuammar, Saïd Foundation Scholar, University of Southampton, MSc Artificial Intelligence.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/canadian-prestige-law:
It offers £1,000 for each year of study.
You must not be getting any external scholarship.
The scholarship awards £1,000 per year of your programme and will be paid in two instalments: £500 in early December 2025 and £500 in early February 2026.
To get paid the award in the academic year 2025 to 2026, you must be enrolled and actively attending Southampton Law School after 1 December 2025.
To continue receiving payments in future academic years, you must pass all your exams on the first attempt each year.
The scholarship will be paid directly into your bank account by BACS.
Please provide your bank account details when you enrol at the University of Southampton.
For more information or for help, email AdmissionsUG.SS@soton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/partnerships-xiamen-university:
The University of Southampton has a partnership with Xiamen University .
Each year we offer several fully-funded PhD scholarships to students from Xiamen University.
This scholarship is for postgraduate PhD study and covers full tuition fee costs for each year of your PhD programme.
We recommend you apply before the end of December.
Identify a suitable PhD programme.
Contact the Faculty PhD Admissions team to discuss a suitable project or potential supervisor for the research topic, and any deadline for applications.
Make a PhD application to the University of Southampton using the online postgraduate application form, including appropriate documents and a research proposal, if required.
Apply to the Talent Service Office at Xiamen University.
We will review all the nominations and select final candidates.
Xiamen University will nominate suitable candidates for CSC scholarships.
Your scholarship will be confirmed when you can demonstrate you have secured funding for your living costs from the CSC or another funding organisation.
You can find more information about this scholarship on the Chinese Scholarship Council’s website .
You can also read the Xiamen Scholarships Applicant Guidance (PDF) .
To discuss this scholarship, you can contact:
Mr Weiwei Ye Talent Service Office, Human Resources Office, Xiamen University personnel@xmu.edu.cn
Sarah Morss International Office, University of Southampton international-scholarships@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/scholarships/external-funding:
You may be eligible for funding provided by other organisations and governments outside of the UK.
On this page you will find external opportunities for:
These opportunities are not funded by The University of Southampton in any way and have been listed to help you research external opportunities.
We cannot guarantee all the items we list are still open or applicable.
View Southampton scholarships instead
Country
Scholarship
Brunei
Brunei Government Ministry of Education scholarships
Brunei Shell Petroleum scholarships
Malaysia
Petronas scholarships
Public Services Department of Malaysia (JPA)
MARA convertible loan
Yayasan Daya Diri
Maybank Group Scholarship Programme
Permodalan Nasional Bhd
Gamuda Scholarship
Mauritius
Government of Mauritius
Singapore
Ministry of Communications and Information scholarships
MOHH BrightSparks Healthcare Scholarships
Smart Nation Scholarship
Sri Lanka
Ministry of Higher Education scholarships
Norway
Lanekassen scholarships
Turkey
YOK Scholarships
Egypt
Government of Egypt scholarships
Iraq
Higher Committee for Education Development Scholarships
Government of Iraq scholarships
Kuwait
Government of Kuwait scholarships
Kuwait Petroleum Cooperation Scholarships
Libya
Government of Libya scholarships
Oman
Government of Oman scholarships
Ministry of Manpower scholarships
Qatar
Supreme Education Council scholarships
Qatar Petroleum Scholarships
Qatar Olympic Committee Scholarship program
Qatar Airways Scholarship program
Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabian Cultural Bureau scholarships
Aramco Scholarships
Sabic Scholarships
UAE
Adnoc Scholarship program
Adek Scholarships
Abu Dhabi investment Authority scholarships
Scholarships Office Abu Dhabi
Canada
Canadian Prestige Scholarship (for Law students)
Canada Student Loans
Ontario Student Assistance Program
USA
US Federal Loans
Stafford Loans
Various: most countries
Wellcome Trust
Government of Bangladesh scholarships
Narotam Sekhsaria Foundation loan scholarships
LPDP (Indonesia Endowment for Education)
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology (MCIT)
Royal Thai Government scholarships
Various: Bangladesh; India; Pakistan; Tajikistan; Kyrgyzstan
Aga Khan Foundation international scholarship
Snowdon Masters Scholarships: investing in inspirational disabled leaders
Various: countries on the List of official development aid recipients identified by the Development Co-operation Directorate (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD )
The Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership (GSEP), Education for Sustainable Energy Development (ESED) Scholarships
Bulgaria
TUK-TAM Foundation
Germany
BAföG-Amt Hannover Region
Wellcome Trust Masters Fellowships in Public Health and Tropical Medicine
BEC.AR scholarships
CAPES scholarships
CNPq scholarships
Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF)
ICETEX study loans
SENESCYT
Becal
PRONABEC
Snowdon Masters Scholarships : investing in inspirational disabled leaders
Various: Afghanistan, Egypt, Syria
Various: Cyprus, Lebanon, Syria
Honor Frost scholarship
Canadian Centennial Scholarship Fund
Nigeria
Petroleum Technology Development Fund scholarships
TET Fund
Sudan/South Sudan
Gordon Memorial College Trust Fund scholarships
Various: Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Mozambique, Madagascar
Various: developing and emerging countries
Schlumberger Foundation: Faculty for the Future
China
China Scholarship Council (CSC) Scholarships
Indonesia
Roberto Rocca Fellowships
Kazakhstan
Bolashak Fellowship Scheme
Taiwan
Ministry of Education scholarships
Thailand
Royal Thai Government Scholarships
Romania
YOK scholarships
Brazil
Colombia
Colfuturo Scholarships
Colciencias Scholarships
Mexico
SENER Scholarships
Paraguay
Peru
Various: Argentina; Brazil; Colombia; Mexico; Venezuela
Bahrain
Government of Bahrain scholarships
Various: Canada, USA
These scholarships are available to Southampton students who are going abroad to work or study.
A*STAR Research Attachment Programme (ARAP) offers to support PhD students to undertake 1 to 2 years of research at an A*STAR research institute in Singapore.
A*STAR is Singapore's leading public sector agency, bridging the gap between academia and industry.
They have over 4,000 scientists and engineers from more than 60 countries, conducting cutting-edge research at the frontiers of biomedical sciences, physical sciences, and engineering.
This scholarship offers support in the form of a $2,500 monthly allowance, a housing stipend, a one-time airfare grant of $1,500, a 'settling in' payment of $1,000, medical insurance, as well as conference and training support.
Find out more about the ARAP Programme .
Please contact Dr Nuno Bimbo if you are interested in applying for this scholarship: N.Bimbo@soton.ac.uk .
The BEST scholarships are open to UK passport holders who are currently, or have been within the last five years inclusive, in full-time tertiary education at a UK university or college and who are planning to undertake postgraduate study in either the USA or Canada.
Up to eight scholarships are awarded each year from a fund of $50,000.
Find out more about BEST scholarships .
The British Council Scholarship for Excellence is offered by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills and is worth up to £3,000 to students studying in Hong Kong.
The British Council is offering generous scholarships to students undertaking an exchange in China.
The Butex Scholarship provides a scholarship of £500 to any student going on a Non-European exchange.
Find out more about Butex Scholarships .
Supporting researchers for more than 25 years, Canon Foundation Research Fellowships are open to Europeans and Japanese nationals.
Europeans must want to do their research in Japan and Japanese must want to do their research in Europe.
Together with the European University Institute, San Fiesole, Italy, the Canon Foundation jointly awards one co-sponsored Canon Foundation Research Fellowship annually for post-doctoral research at the EUI.
This Fellowship is open to candidates of Japanese nationality or permanent residents of Japan.
The annual deadline for applications is 15 September and applicants can apply either via the Canon Foundation or the European University website.
Find out more about Canon Foundation Fellowships .
The German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) is the German national agency for the support of international academic cooperation.
The DAAD currently provides financial support to more than 74,000 individuals every year by offering funding to students, researchers and academics worldwide.
The DAAD also actively promotes Germany as an international study and research destination, and, last but not least, plays a major role in promoting the German language at higher education level worldwide.
Please note that we provide funding for students and academics in the UK and Ireland to study and carry out research in Germany.
If you are an applicant from Germany and looking for funding to study / carry out research in the UK or Ireland, you need to go via DAAD head office in Germany.
Find out more about DAAD Study in Germany Scholarships .
The “Dream NEW” scholarship is for students from Europe to undertake a semester of undergraduate study in New Zealand.
This scholarship has been designed for European students who dream big, crave adventure and set their sights on new horizons.
It is for those wanting to realise their vision in the forward-thinking education climate of New Zealand – a country where innovation flourishes, and where people from all over the world come together to follow their dreams.
A New Zealand education encourages you to be open minded, creative and to dream NEW.
The value of each scholarship varies - up to NZD$12,500 (approx.
7,500 €).
Find out more about Dream NEW scholarships .
The Duo - Korea Fellowships are awarded by Korean institutions to EU students who are selected to undertake a period of exchange at a Korean educational institution.
There are no restrictions in using the fellowship.
It can finance the tuition, and living or travel expenses.
The Asia-Europe Meeting's (ASEM) DUO Fellowship Fund aims to promote student exchanges between European and Asian ASEM member countries.
Under this fund, the DUO-Singapore Exchange Fellowship is awarded by the Singapore Government to Singapore and ASEAN students studying in the Nanyang Technological University (NTU), National University of Singapore (NUS) and Singapore Management University (SMU).
The Award is also open to students from European ASEM countries (who come from universities with fee waiver arrangements with NTU, NUS and SMU.
Find out more about Asia-Europe Meeting's (ASEM) DUO Fellowship Fund .
Frank Knox Fellowships were established in 1945 by Mrs Annie Reid Knox as the Frank Knox Memorial to enable students from the UK, along with those from Australia, Canada and New Zealand, to undertake graduate study at Harvard University.
Find out more about Frank Knox Fellowships .
The University of Western Australia is awarding one Gerald Frank Brown Scholarship to the value of AU$2000 each semester.
Eligible students must be from a partner university in the EU and be accepted as a study abroad or exchange student at the University of Western Australia.
Students who accept a place at UWA will be sent a link to the online application by UWA.
Find out more about the Gerald Frank Brown Scholarship .
At HolidayLettings, they think travel is the best way to learn about the world.
In that spirit, they’re awarding one student a £500 scholarship towards studying abroad.
The winning student can put the money towards tuition fees, accommodation or travel costs to make their trip abroad that bit easier and even more rewarding.
Find out more about HolidayLettings Study Abroad Scholarships .
The JASSO scholarships are generous scholarships for students going to study in Japan.
Applications can only be made once students are officially nominated to study at a participating Japanese institution.
Find out more about The JASSO scholarships .
The Kennedy Scholarship is an academic award for study at two of the world's finest universities - Harvard and MIT.
It can be used to fund a wide variety of programmes at MIT and across all the graduate schools within Harvard - from PhD to LLM, from MPH to March.
It can also fund a Special Studentship for those wanting a general programme of non-degree study.
Find out more about the Kennedy Scholarships .
Up to 2 students from the University of Southampton are eligible for a $1,000 USD scholarship from KAIST each year.
To be eligible, students must be nominated by their home Faculty to the University of Southampton International Office.
For more information, please email us at studyabroad@southampton.ac.uk .
This scholarship is subject to yearly review.
If you are nominated to attend National University of Singapore, Nanyang Technological University or Singapore Management University you are eligible for the DUO scholarship.
You must apply through your respective institution and be aware of the early application deadline in March.
The general scholarship programme is for UK/EU students who have completed at least two years of undergraduate study and are studying in China for up to one year.
To find out more, please email studyabroad@southampton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/short-courses/cpd/alphaspectrometry:
A 5-day alpha spectrometry course delivered by ORTEC/AMETEK and hosted by National Nuclear User Facility - Next Generation Accelerated Characterisation Technologies (NNUF-EXACT)
This course covers the basics of alpha spectrometry followed by a more detailed overview of some of the most useful innovations for the analyst.
Real-world examples will be highlighted throughout and a "hands-on" approach will be emphasized with about 60-70% laboratory sessions.
For further information on the topics included and a list of the laboratory experiments, please visit the ORTEC/AMETEK webpage .
The course has been designed so that students new to alpha spectrometry will benefit from the fundamentals being presented while the more experienced analysts will gain from exposure to a review as well as the presentation of new and developing techniques.
Students will receive classroom instruction and will work in small groups in the our on-site radioanalytical laboratories under close supervision with the instructor.
Dr.
Bill Burnett Environmental Radioactivity Measurement Facility Department of Oceanography Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306
Registration via the ORTEC/AMETEK webpage .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/study/short-courses/cpd/radiochemistry:
A 2 day radiochemistry course delivered by National Nuclear User Facility - Next Generation Accelerated Characterisation Technologies (NNUF-EXACT)
This is aimed to be an introductory course to various aspects of radiochemistry and the content will include:
This course is for new analysts, radiochemists and for anyone looking for refresher training.
This in-person course at the University of Southampton's Waterfront Campus includes access to our on-site radioanalytical laboratories .
You'll receive a copy of the notes and a certificate of attendance.
Professor Phil Warwick
If you would like to book this course or have any questions, email NNUF‐EXACT@soton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/archers-road:
Room furniture usually includes:
When you apply for this hall you can request:
We’ll do our best to give you what you ask for.
Learn more about the rooms available in this hall.
If there's a room you're interested in, you can choose to compare it with up to 5 others from this hall or another.
You can access your comparisons from the bottom of this room list.
Archers Road Southampton SO15 2WF United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/city-gateway:
Bed sizes City Gateway has:
110 High Road Swaythling Southampton SO16 2HA United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/erasmus-park:
Easton Road Winnall Winchester SO23 7XA United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/glen-eyre:
View a virtual tour of a flat and enhanced ensuite room with accessible features
View a virtual tour of a flat and standard ensuite room with accessible features
Glen Eyre Road Southampton SO16 3UF United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/highfield-hall:
Omdurman Road Highfield Southampton SO17 1AW United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/mayflower:
West Park Road Southampton SO15 1DP United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/orion-point:
78-82 St Marys Road Southampton SO14 0GE United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/halls/wessex-lane:
Wessex Lane Southampton SO18 2NU United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/facilities/cancer-sciences-protein-facility:
The Cancer Sciences Protein Facility has all the equipment and expertise to produce tailored recombinant proteins.
Our focus is primarily on proteins and antibodies involved in cancer, but we also produce proteins for other applications.
The Protein Facility has produced over 100 different proteins since 2006, contributing to over 45 articles.
The protein production incorporates the whole process from cloning and expression to purification and quality control.
Our highlights include:
Pros: High levels of protein, quick, low cost, scalable, simple culture conditions.
Cons: Difficult with large proteins, proteins can be misfolded, lack of post-translational modifications.
Pros: Closer to mammalian protein processing.
Cons: More demanding culture conditions than bacteria, production of baculovirus can be time consuming.
Pros: Natural folding, post-translational modifications, pyrogen-free
Cons: Expensive

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/facilities/geotechnical-centrifuge:
Our Geotechnical Centrifuge Facility (GCF) consists of a 6m diameter geotechnical centrifuge and associated sample and model preparation facilities.
These are used to undertake scaled physical model tests.
The centrifuge spins the scale models to accelerations of up to 130 times Earth’s gravity.
Geotechnical centrifuges enable failure mechanisms and soil-structure interactions to be studied using real soil samples at small scale.
This allows accelerated scale modelling of geosystems, such as earthworks, foundations and other civil engineering infrastructure that interacts with the ground.
Our research addresses the resilience and sustainability of offshore and onshore infrastructure, addressing engineering challenges on land, by the coast and at the seafloor.
These range from wind farms to high speed rail systems, and from characterisation of microscopic soil properties through to the whole life behaviour of foundations and earthworks over decades of loading and climate impact.
Our Geotechnical Centrifuge Facility (GCF) is part of the National Infrastructure Laboratory .
Our facility is equipped with state-of-the-art systems for robotic control, data acquisition, image analysis and sample characterisation.
Our staff have supervised more than 40 PhDs involving centrifuge modelling, and we have collaborated with a wide range of infrastructure stakeholders to apply centrifuge modelling to their challenges.
Our Actidyn C67/4 centrifuge is the latest version of a well-established geotechnical centrifuge design, adapted to suit our requirements.
The facility is equipped with a mixture of in-house and externally-sourced ancillary equipment, designed for long-term data-rich modelling of all geotechnical systems as well as other high gravity testing applications.
The centrifuge is 6m in diameter to the swinging platform, with a capacity of 130 g-tonnes and a maximum model weight of 1.5 tonnes.
It is equipped for unattended running and remote control, permitting long term testing sequences that can simulate decades of behaviour in tens of hours.
Our ancillary equipment includes:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/facilities/maritime-robotics-instrumentation-laboratory:
Robotic systems provide unrivalled opportunities to increase our understanding of the oceans.
They are capable of exploring locations that are too dangerous or remote for manned vehicles.
Take a quick tour of the Maritime Robotics Lab .
Our labs have the following:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/active-living:
We are developing innovative technologies and establishing new clinical practices to maximise the active lifespan, increase physical activity, healthy ageing and independence in ways that are safe, affordable and sustainable.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/advanced-fibre-applications:
These fibres are designed and fabricated by the Zepler Institute Hollow Core Fibre group, while our group focuses on aspects of these newly-emerging fibres from the ‘user perspective’.
Our group discovers new areas where optical fibres can revolutionize the field and collaborates with world-leading researchers in these areas.
We also develop components needed to use these new fibres, e.g., their interfacing to existing systems.
As well as this, we specialize in time and frequency metrology, working closely with the National Physical Laboratory (NPL), benefiting from emerging technologies such as Optical Frequency Combs.
We study how improved timing accuracy will improve a range of applications from telecom/datacom to navigation, and fundamental physics (e.g., gravitational waves detection, quantum, study of chemical reactions, etc.).
Specific topics of interest are:
Email: uibe1g20@soton.ac.uk
Email: K.Elglmady@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7774 838560
Email: Meng.Ding@soton.ac.uk
Email: R.Slavik@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4523
Email: rm4u19@soton.ac.uk
Email: W.A.Indra@soton.ac.uk
Discover more about research degrees and search current photonics and optoelectronics advertised projects.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/advanced-laser-laboratory:
The group is led by Dr C Codemard (TRUMPF) and Professor M N Zervas (ORC), embedded in the ORC, addressing fundamental fibre laser research issues.
Advanced Laser Laboratory has a very broad range of interests and activities within the high-power fibre laser area and has close links with other research groups and laboratories within the ORC and industry.
Our research is focused on the underlying laser physics to allow extended functionality and improved performance of pulsed and CW industrial fibre lasers.
We develop disruptive fibre laser technologies for the next generation of high-power manufacturing tools.
Email: mnz@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3147
Email: ntv@orc.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3195
Email: N.A.Toropov@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4545
Explore our PhD projects open for applications.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/advanced-project-management-research-centre:
As an active interdisciplinary community, we focus on project goals and objectives to identify appropriate methods that can support positive project management outcomes.
Our research processes are underpinned by mixed methods combining deep qualitative engagement and large-scale quantitative analysis.
This enables us to apply appropriate research tools and techniques in developing and applying cutting-edge research to identify pressing project challenges with a positive impact for real-world applications.
Advanced Project Management Research Centre (APROM) Southampton Business School University of Southampton Southampton SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/antibody-vaccine-group:
The Southampton Antibody and Vaccine Group (AVG), is part of the School of Cancer Sciences and based in the Centre for Cancer Immunology, within the Faculty of Medicine.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/astronomy-group:
We use observations of the heavens to better comprehend our place in the Solar system, to improve our understanding of the origin and growth of galaxies, extreme objects such as black holes, and the universe itself.
The Astronomy group is part of Physics and Astronomy.
We are part of the larger Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences, which brings together fundamental research with one of the UK's largest and strongest Electronics and Computer Science departments.
We are in the UK top 10 and world top 100 for Physics and Astronomy (QS World Rankings by Subject 2017).
100% of our research is rated world leading or internationally excellent for its impact on society (REF 2021).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/autism-community-research-network-southampton:
ACoRNS addresses questions that arise from practice through participatory research.
Our work is co-constructed such that projects, ideas, and funding bids are jointly developed, evaluated and disseminated with community partners.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/bioarchaeology-osteoarchaeology:
We bring together human osteoarchaeology and zooarchaeology.
In particular, we take a biocultural approach to the study of bioarchaeology of both human and faunal remains.
Core group members include Sonia Zakrzewski, Jaco Weinstock, Jo Sofaer and Alistair Pike, plus Simon Mays (Historic England) and Dale Serjeantson.
We also have graduate students, both PhD and master's.
Our interests include skeletal and bodily expression of past human identities, migration, diet, occupation, and activity practices.
Additionally, we conduct research on disease (palaeopathology), disability, and religious practice.
This research sometimes includes isotope analysis, ancient DNA research and the use of micro-CT.
We often collaborate with other groups and use facilities across the University.
We also undertake some contract osteological work of both faunal and human assemblages.
Explore our latest news and events
Email: A.W.Pike@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7295
Email: J.Weinstock@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4195
Email: S.R.Zakrzewski@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4778
Email: X.Shao@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/bladder-bowel-management:
Our mission is to improve the lives of people living with bladder and bowel leakage (incontinence) and urine retention problems.
We carry out collaborative and multidisciplinary research with outcomes that have maximum impact on patients by influencing policy and changing practice throughout the UK and internationally.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/cell-developmental-biology:
Our research provides a natural training environment for the next generation of scientists by combining molecular, biochemical, gene editing and imaging approaches with structural biology.
This enables advanced investigations into the complex mechanisms of fundamental biology.
We pursue a range of interests including:
Our research provides experimental platforms to collaborate with other researchers in other areas.
For instance, we work with our colleagues in medicine to exploit structural and functional studies on how cancer cells evade the immune system.
Email: A.K.T.Wann@soton.ac.uk
Email: D.Kaganovich@soton.ac.uk
Email: D.A.Tumbarello@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4288
Email: E.GwyerFindlay@soton.ac.uk
Email: J.M.Werner@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2484
Email: kif.liakath-ali@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4416
Email: N.R.Smyth@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381206826
Tel: +44 23 8059 4222
Email: N.Divecha@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 9007

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/centre-for-defence-security-research:
The Centre for Defence and Security Research gathers together a wide range of expertise from across Southampton’s world-class research community.
We work across disciplines to meet complex national defence and security challenges through direct engagement with government and in collaboration with industrial partners.
Our research spans digital, physical and biological systems.
Southampton is a leading academic supplier into UK defence through various research frameworks, as well as addressing security and policing requirements.
Through our PhD programmes we support the training and development of future leaders in defence and security.
Our academic staff from across the University’s faculties, schools and departments bring experience in diverse fields to bear on challenges in defence and national security.
Particular areas of expertise include:
We have industry partnerships with a number of UK defence companies, including:
The University of Southampton is registered into many of the defence and Security supplier frameworks, including:
Email: ajs502@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3769
Email: E.Karafili@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7695
Email: J.P.Scanlan@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2369
Email: J.Fliege@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8453
Email: J.Cheer@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3082
Email: K.Plant@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3705
Email: P.A.Reed@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3763
Email: r.wood@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4881
Email: S.Morris@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2380593441

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-developmental-origins-of-health-disease:
Applying these insights through our teaching and knowledge exchange, we contribute to reducing disparities in health and life chances across generations.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-digital-finance:
The Centre for Digital Finance is a centre of excellence at the intersection of finance and computational technologies, undertaking rigorous research to gain fresh insights into financial systems.
Through collaboration and robust industry partnerships, our interdisciplinary team leverages AI and data science to provide business solutions and advance the digital transformation of finance.
The Centre’s members come from a variety of academic disciplines and it aims to foster a deeper understanding and awareness of the complex interrelationship between business and technology through research, consultancy and education.
If you would like to receive more information about the Centre for Digital Finance please contact us:
Directors
Professor Frank Mc Groarty - Professor of Computational Finance and Investment Analytics, Southampton Business School, University of Southampton.
Dr Larisa Yarovaya - Associate Professor of Finance, Southampton Business School, University of Southampton.
Deputy Directors
Dr Ahmad Maaitah , Director of BSc Finance and FinTech, Lecturer in Finance and FinTech, Southampton Business School, University of Southampton.
Dr Manuel Nunes , Lecturer in Banking and Finance, Southampton Business School, University of Southampton.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-eastern-european-eurasian-studies:
Our members are from nine academic departments across three faculties.
They combine disciplinary and methodological expertise with linguistic and area studies skills.
This has helped them create world-leading research on Eastern European and Eurasian countries.
Our research spans across a range of historical contexts up until the present day.
We also give advice to governments, businesses and the third sector, locally and internationally.
If you would like to receive more information about the Centre for Eastern European and Eurasian Studies please contact Doctor Charlie Walker or Doctor George Gilbert:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-empirical-research-in-finance-banking:
We are a centre of excellence based within Southampton Business School, undertaking rigorous theoretical and empirical research in banking and financial economics.
We aim to promote substantive academic partnership with industry and academics around the world, producing cutting-edge research outputs and impact.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-geometry-topology-applications:
The Centre supports fundamental curiosity-driven research across a wide spectrum of geometry, topology and group theory.
An important aspect of our work is to identify opportunities for direct applications of pure mathematics in the natural sciences.
Members of the Centre lead interdisciplinary projects in medicine, biology and foundations of modern data science.
The Centre is located at the School of Mathematical Sciences at University of Southampton.
We are always interested in developing new collaborations and hosting visitors, postdocs and PhD students.
School of Mathematical Sciences, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Southampton, SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/centre-for-global-englishes:
We enable collaboration and knowledge exchange with researchers and centres worldwide.
Our main aims and focus are to:
Find out more about our activities on our news and events pages .
The director of the Centre for Global Englishes is Dr Will Baker .
Email: A.Patino@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2208
Email: A.M.Dickens@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7785
Email: A.B.C.Smith@soton.ac.uk
Email: F.C.Mar-Molinero@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3298
Email: daa1u19@soton.ac.uk
Email: J.Jenkins@soton.ac.uk
Email: K.Zotzmann@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3976
Email: M.Bas-Szymaszek@soton.ac.uk
Email: M.W.Page@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8919
Email: M.Kranert@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8857
Explore our research degrees and advertised projects.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-global-health-policy:
We work in partnership with colleagues from across the University and around the world, developing a transformative global health and policy agenda through an interdisciplinary approach.
Our research works towards the overall goal of ensuring access to sustainable health and wellbeing within a fair, equitable and inclusive governance.
The Centre has expertise in understanding and addressing the local and global challenges of delivering the right to health and citizenship in vulnerable socio-economic contexts.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-green-maritime-innovation:
We’re establishing the Centre for Green Maritime Innovation to place the UK as a global leader in zero-carbon maritime transport.
Our mission is to develop and prove technologies that will cut emissions, combat climate change, and ensure the UK’s maritime sector thrives economically while leading the charge toward a sustainable, net-zero future.
Boldrewood Innovation Campus
University of Southampton
Southampton, SO16 7QF
UK

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-health-technologies:
The Centre for Health Technologies (CHT) was established in 2018 by the School of Electronics and Computer Science to facilitate coordination between ECS academics and practitioners in the health domain, such as the fields of e-health, healthcare technologies, wellbeing, and rehabilitation.
School of Electronics and Computer Sciences, Building 32
University of Southampton,
Southampton SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-healthcare-analytics:
Healthcare is a data rich environment.
Unfortunately, the quantity and quality of insights derived from this data is not relative to this richness.
Unlocking the potential of this data will be of great benefit to patients and wider society.
Working with our partners, such as NIHR Applied Research Collaboration Wessex, we are taking our first steps to face this challenge.
Please email the Head of the Centre for Healthcare Analytics, Professor Martin Kunc.
Email: m.h.kunc@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/centre-for-human-development-stem-cells-regeneration:
We aim to provide an environment where excellent scientists can make exciting discoveries for patient benefit.
Our Vision: Translating pioneering developmental and stem cell science for patient benefit.
The Centre for Human Development, Stem Cells and Regeneration (CHDSCR) was founded in 2004 as a cross-disciplinary research and translational programme within the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Southampton.
The Centre undertakes fundamental research into early development and stem cells together with applied translational research targeting the NHS and patient benefit.
The Centre has vibrant and thriving interdisciplinary research programmes that harness the translational strength of the University together with an MRes program in Stem Cells, outstanding clinical infrastructure and enterprise to deliver on this vision.
The Centre comprises a grouping of scientists and clinician scientists with a shared interest in Stem Cells, Development and Regenerative Medicine within excellent core space in the Institute of Developmental Sciences and units across Southampton General Hospital and Institute for Life Sciences
Our Mission: Our aim is to understand early human development and fundamental stem cell biology to inform and aid our translation and development of cell therapies for regenerative medicine.
Professor Jon Dawson - Director
Email: A.J.Lotery@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +442380591833
Email: J.Ratnayaka@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381208183
Email: bdm@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5135
Email: B.P.Sharpe@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7475736838
Email: B.G.Sengers@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3300
Email: C.L.JACKSON@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381208798
Email: D.Boche@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2380592219
Email: E.Brookes@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 0245
Email: F.D.Houghton@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381208731
Explore our advertised medicine PhD projects and our PhD doctoral training partnership programmes.
Centre for Human Development, Stem Cells and Regeneration Faculty of Medicine (School of Human Development and Health) University of Southampton Southampton General Hospital Tremona Road Southampton SO16 6YD

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-imperial-postcolonial-studies:
We explore the varied ways that global empires functioned, were resisted and negotiated.
We also ask how these empires continue to define the present.
Our academics, from a variety of disciplines, examine the issues around migration, power, violence, trade, race, and much more.
Our regular events include talks, film screenings and workshops in support of our research on these themes.
We support postgraduate study through our annual conferences.
These are well attended by PhD students from Southampton and beyond.
They offer the opportunity to work across disciplines to study socially important themes.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-inclusive-sustainable-entrepreneurship-innovation:
Founded in 2016, CISEI conducts interdisciplinary cutting-edge evidence-based research on inclusive and sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-international-film-research:
Our group showcases research in international film and screen studies developed by our leading academics, postgraduates and visiting speakers.
We are committed to engaging the public.
Our research has an impact on academia and beyond.
Members of the CIFR are leaders in a variety of film and screen research areas.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-international-law-globalisation:
The core aims of the Centre are, first, to foster innovative research and policy engagement by experts in distinct substantive areas of international law.
Secondly, recognising that contemporary global challenges are multi-dimensional, the Centre provides a space within which researchers can work collaboratively, cutting across distinct substantive areas, to explore law’s role and potential contribution in addressing contemporary international and global challenges through the identification and development of multi-disciplinary, integrative responses and approaches.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/internet-of-things-pervasive-systems:
The Centre for Internet of Things and Pervasive Systems (C-IoT) brings together interested researchers from across the School of Electronics and Computer Science and the University.
The centre has research activities in a spectrum of topics cutting across the full IoT system stack, from underpinning semiconductor and sensor devices, through to machine intelligence and data science.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-justice-studies:
We engage with issues of criminal law, criminal justice and punishment, and related questions including fairness, legitimacy and marginalisation.
We do so collaboratively and collectively, as well as through our individual research work.
The Centre is organised around three over-arching themes, embodying our collective approach: we are interdisciplinary (our research embraces arts and humanities, social sciences, and theoretical approaches); we are collaborative and co-productive (we work with a range of stakeholders concerned about, and affected by, questions of justice); we are international (in our substantive interests, and in our collaborative work).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-linguistics-language-education-acquisition-research:
Our research focuses on several areas in general and applied linguistics.
These include second language acquisition, language learning and teaching, and language assessment.
We also study linguistic theory, discourse analysis, and sociolinguistics.
Additionally, our research covers language attrition, heritage languages, and third language acquisition.
We aim to provide a forum for knowledge production and knowledge-sharing, and discussion across these areas.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-machine-intelligence:
CMI brings together research from across the School of Electronics and Computer Science and the wider University in the areas of artificial intelligence, machine learning and autonomous systems.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-maritime-archaeology:
The Centre for Maritime Archaeology is the principal focus for maritime archaeological research and teaching at the University of Southampton.
(Image: Rodrigo Pacheco Ruiz, Black Sea Maritime Archaeology Project)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-medieval-renaissance-culture:
Our main activity, as a centre, revolves around the organisation of interdisciplinary study days, conferences and the Reuter lecture.
Our annual interdisciplinary study day offers us a great opportunity to share our thoughts, research, and different angles on a chosen topic.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-political-ethnography-cpe:
As the first UK-based centre dedicated to ethnographic research in politics, CPE promotes the use of ethnographic methods in political science and fosters interdisciplinary dialogue among researchers studying politics in its various dimensions in everyday life.
The Centre for Political Ethnography (CPE) is the first UK-based centre dedicated to promoting ethnographic research in political science.
Based in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Southampton (PAIR), CPE brings together an interdisciplinary community of researchers using fieldwork-based methods to explore politics in everyday life.
Our members work across disciplines including political science, sociology, anthropology, law, geography, criminology, and cultural studies.
CPE is a hub for collaboration, training, and dialogue, committed to grounded research and fostering inclusive, critical conversations about political life.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-research-in-accounting-accountability-governance:
CRAAG focuses on the role of accounting in facilitating global development and sustainability.
Our overriding focus is to promote global development and sustainability.
In doing so, we aim to conduct and promote not only world-class research, but also responsible and impactful research by working closely with stakeholders, including practitioners, regulators and policymakers.
We welcome email enquiries: CRAAG22@soton.ac.uk
You can also keep up to date with our activities using our social channels.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-research-on-work-organisations:
We have five main objectives: to stimulate research discussions and knowledge exchange; to engage in theoretical and empirical research, and publish it in relevant, reputable, and high-quality outlets; to engage in research which has an impact on individuals, policy makers, organisations, and societies; to receive funding for its members’ research through research councils and other funders, and via collaborations with business and professional bodies; to provide a knowledge foundation for research-informed teaching.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-resilient-socio-technical-systems:
In a world of significant uncertainty, organisations cannot carry on operating in a ‘business as usual’ manner.
We are cultivating innovative solutions to complex challenges, focussing on critical infrastructure, energy, transportation, disaster response and AI safety.
We are conducting interdisciplinary research that identifies vulnerabilities within interconnected systems and pioneers novel strategies and technologies to fortify these networks against diverse threats.
Through collaboration, co-creation, education, and the dissemination of knowledge, our Centre aims to be a global leader in shaping resilient, adaptive, and sustainable solutions, ensuring the continued functionality and security of critical infrastructure in an ever-changing world.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/centre-for-transnational-studies:
Our members share an interest in understanding how ideas, objects, and people move across borders.
We study topics like colonialism, migration, cultural encounters, globalisation, conflict, and inequality.
Through these topics, we can explore simple ideas like nation, nationhood, and nationality.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/child-adolescent-research-group:
We investigate and work to improve health behaviour, Quality of Life and mental health, to ensure healthy futures for young people and future generations.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/clinical-ethics-law-society:
We explore the ethical, legal, and psychosocial aspects of scientific and technological advances in healthcare.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/computational-nonlinear-optics:
The group is interested in the theoretical and numerical investigation of a wide range of photonics systems from fundamental physics to photonic engineering, from single photons to Gigawatt level laser pulses, from integrated devices to optical fibres.
On all projects we collaborate closely with experimental research groups, and the interaction between our modelling work and corresponding experiments is a main driving force in our research.
A particular research focus is on nonlinear optics in guided-wave structures, such as the simulation of short laser pulse propagation in optical fibres leading to spatial and spectral reshaping of the laser field.
The work addresses fundamental photonics questions as well as simulation methods, optimisation of devices, and applications in, for example, telecommunications, sensing, and high-power lasers.
Quantum technology is another major area of the group’s research.
In close collaboration with other groups in the UK National Quantum Technology Programme we investigate novel devices that combine matter-based quantum bits (qubits), such as single trapped ions, with photonics, such as optical waveguides and optical resonators.
Such devices are expected to be the basic components of future quantum sensing, secure communication, and quantum computing applications.
Email: Abhishek.Vijayakumar@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7554463381
Email: e.elistratova@soton.ac.uk
Email: J.Warner@soton.ac.uk
Email: mg6u19@soton.ac.uk
Email: peh@orc.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3588
Email: rrk1e24@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7926864025
Email: T.W.Kelly@soton.ac.uk
Email: W.J.Hughes@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 6979

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/cyber-security-academy:
We bring together leading researchers, government bodies, and key industrial players from underpinning semiconductor chips security, digital forensics, artificial intelligence, and blockchain to create future secure systems through world-class research, internationally leading training portfolio, and high-quality consultancy service.
The Cyber Security Academy (CSA) is a hub for advancing security research and providing professional training and consultancy services.
We have world-class expertise in all areas related to cyber and physical systems security.
This includes chips security, digital forensics, artificial intelligence, and blockchain, which we use to build countermeasures to secure our clients' infrastructure and educate the next generation of cyber security professionals.
Cyber Security Academy University of Southampton University Road Southampton SO17 1BJ United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/big-data-in-health-group:
We use traditional statistical methods alongside artificial intelligence algorithms to draw insights on real-world problems.
This is combined with extensive qualitative research to provide a deeper understanding of big data findings and its use in both medical and social contexts.
We are a diverse interdisciplinary team that includes health and social care workers, data scientists, epidemiologists, mathematicians, engineers, environmental scientists, sociologists, psychologists, health economists alongside patients and public members.
The group is led by Dr Hajira Dambha-Miller.
We regularly have visiting fellows from other institutions and across the faculty, as well as students.
We collaborate with a range of external research institutions and partners across the UK and internationally.
We are based in the Primary Care Research Centre where we work across the departmental research themes, but we also apply our research knowledge and skills to a range of other topics.
We regularly run seminars and online meetings to discuss all things related to data science.
In all aspects of our work, from research design to dissemination of findings, we involve the public and patients, to ensure our research has public need and opinion at its centre.
View our videos on our Youtube channel .
Email: G.W.Simpson@soton.ac.uk
Email: H.A.Everitt@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 1788
Email: John.McBeth@southampton.ac.uk
Email: M.Santer@soton.ac.uk
Email: Nazrul.Islam@soton.ac.uk
Email: Nick.Francis@soton.ac.uk
Explore postgraduate research options in primary health care.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/digital-oceans:
Marine solutions and economies are expanding along with increasing threats to the marine environment.
Harnessing progress in digital oceans is essential for addressing global and local challenges.
Digital Oceans focuses on advances in marine digital technology, in areas such as:
Digital Oceans is a special interest group that aims to establish a collaborative platform for researchers to engage in marine digital applications and methods.
Their interest is in a deeper understating of our oceans and in data-driven insights that can inform sustainable practices.
They use digital innovation to address practices and changes affecting our marine environments.
Digital Oceans facilitates efficiency and accessibility.
This is achieved through advances in artificial intelligence that improve data analysis and decision-making processes; the optimisation of data structures and management; and new frontiers in ocean mapping, simulation and visualisations.
Our ambition is to:
The Digital Oceans group strives to bridge the gap between cutting-edge marine digital technologies and social and human sciences.
Our vision is to promote environmental stewardship and help innovations to impact our oceans and the global community.
To find out more about the Digital Oceans Special Interest Group and what we do, get in touch with group champions Alexandra Karamitrou , Crystal El Safadi , Philip Leadbitter and Hugo Putuhena .
Join the SMMI Community to sign up to this group and our other special interest groups.
Email: A.S.Bahaj@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2051
Email: apb@ecs.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4473
Email: adrian.bodenmann@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 6626
Email: A.Nightingale@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2873
Email: A.J.Murphy@soton.ac.uk
Email: aesk@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2788
Email: acng@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2680
Email: A.Limpo-Gonzalez@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.Silvano@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4850

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/economic-theory-experimental-economics:
We test and refine these theories in controlled experiments to better understand economic behaviour and inform policy makers to improve the well-being of society.
The research group is comprised of experts specialising in both theoretical and experimental economics.
Their comprehensive research covers an extensive array of fields such as decision theory, political and institutional economics, industrial organisation, environmental economics, financial markets, negotiation strategies, and operations research.
The team members are dedicated to addressing pressing societal questions, including the following:
Moreover, the group's work delves into the realm of political economy, exploring subjects such as policy implementability, behavioural voting models, public opinion dynamics, and public health issues.
The societal implications of the group's research are substantial, as it illuminates key facets of human behaviour and decision-making across various economic settings.
Their findings have informed policymaking and enhanced the operation of markets and other allocation mechanisms, ultimately fostering a more equitable and sustainable society.
View our latest news, events and seminars
Email: A.Ianni@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2536
Email: C.Kellner@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3266
Email: F.Savva@soton.ac.uk
Email: G.Riener@soton.ac.uk
Email: J.Tong@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 6801
Email: J.Ferreira@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8735
Email: K.Ozbek@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2847
Email: M.Kwiek@soton.ac.uk
Email: M.Vlassopoulos@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3268
Email: Mingye.Ma@soton.ac.uk
Explore the latest research degree opportunities in economics.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/economy-society-governance:
We research: E conomic geographies, including: regional development and growth, evolutionary economic geography, industrial policy, the creative economy, entrepreneurship, firm creation, business networks, and postcapitalist craft economies.
Social geographies, including: migration, diaspora, heritage, gender, care, everyday life, and affect.
Political geographies, including: governance, citizenship, political participation, diaspora governance, nationalism, regional and local governance, intermunicipal cooperation, civil society, art and activism, urban protest, urbanisation and conflict, digital democracy, and digital refusal.
Email: B.J.Hracs@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 9097
Email: Han.Wang@soton.ac.uk
Email: J.Dickinson@southampton.ac.uk
Email: J.M.Espey@soton.ac.uk
Email: J.Vullnetari@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 6710
Email: L.Glasheen@soton.ac.uk
Email: M.Preville-Findlay@soton.ac.uk
Email: M.N.Lomotey@soton.ac.uk
Email: N.Clarke@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4618
Email: N.Dorward@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/electrical-power-engineering:
Our expertise ranges from nanoscale insulation materials and plasma, through to electrical power systems and sustainable energy generation: from nanometres to megavolts.
EPE's research interests cover a wide range of electrical engineering, from nano-scale devices up to grid level high voltage engineering, electric grid operation and all electric future, and space propulsion.
Researchers in the EPE group are pioneering many technologies that are essential to our requirements in the 21st century, such as energy efficient power transmission, satellite technology and renewable power generation.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/environmental-hydraulics:
Our group is internationally known for its research on various aspects of Hydraulic Engineering and Environmental Fluids Mechanics, such as: low-head hydropower, wave energy, sediment transport, development of numerical and mathematical models.
We work closely with experts representing a wide range of disciplines within the fields of water engineering, environmental engineering, physical and biological sciences, applied ecology, energy, fluid dynamics and ecohydraulics, water resource and waste management, and the social sciences.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/gas-photonics-in-hollow-core-fibres:
Hollow Core Fibres guide light in a hollow space instead of solid glass, as is the case for conventional fibres.
While the core and cladding holes within our fibres are hollow, they are not usually empty and the gas composition within these holes has a significant impact on the light passing through.
Within our team, we investigate aspects of hollow core fibres which are related to this gas content within the fibre and exploit it for a range of applications.
Our work spans across the full life cycle of the fibre: from investigating the evolution of chemical compounds through every step of the fibre fabrication process, through developing techniques to characterise gas pressure and composition within hollow core fibres immediately after fabrication, to measuring the impact through characterisation methods and optical performance in wide-ranging applications.
For some applications, we actively control the gas content to improve the optical properties of our fibres.
For applications in high sensitivity gas detection, we can load the gas sample to be tested into the fibre core to take advantage of the long gas-light interaction length within the fibre.
Furthermore, we are also investigating the impact of the internal gas composition on the longer term optical and mechanical performance of our fibres, which is critical as our fibres are now being deployed in real-world projects.
In our gas sensing activities, we take advantage of the low loss offered by hollow core fibres beyond the conventional transmission window of standard (all-solid) optical fibres.
In the visible spectral region, we work on Raman-based gas sensing using hollow core fibres which are designed and fabricated specifically for this application.
In the mid-infrared, we are working on broadband absorption-based gas sensing, taking advantage of the stronger absorption lines in this spectral region.
We enjoy working with a wide range of academic and industrial partners:
If you are interested to find out more or would like to work with us, please contact group lead Professor Natalie Wheeler ( n.v.wheeler@soton.ac.uk ).
Email: A.M.Biondi-Vaccariello@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7849097031
Email: H.C.Mulvad@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 0158
Email: H.Mohammadi@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7428304378
Email: I.A.K.Davidson@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2610
Email: K.Srinivasan@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7587994357
Email: L.Xu@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2380 590167
Email: nvw1v10@orc.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2825
Join our busy community of PhD students and researchers.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/geochemistry:
Our analyses of rocks, waters, biominerals, sediments, ocean particles and hydrothermal fluids are used to provide novel insights into a wide range of problems.
These range from reconstructing past climates to tackling pressing issues like carbon capture and storage and sourcing metals critical for the green energy revolution.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/global-health-demography:
Staff from within Social Statistics and Demography are involved with a large number of Global Health projects and programmes in partnership with colleagues from across the university and from other institutions globally.
Our key areas of research are embedded within international development frameworks such as the UN Strategic Development Goals (SDGs).
Much of our work is underpinned by our strong quantitative expertise, and a hallmark of our work is the analysis of large and complex datasets to inform policy design.
We have a strong focus on inequity and improving the health of the most vulnerable
The group collaborates closely with a number of high- profile policy organisations such as the WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF and the UK Government, and has an extensive network of international and national research partners from countries throughout the world.
We have well-established links with many low- and middle-income countries including India, China, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, South Africa, Malawi, Nigeria, Nepal, Ukraine, Brazil and Honduras.
Many of the Department’s Global Health Researchers are members of the Centre for Global Health and Policy (GHaP), an interdisciplinary centre based in the School of Economic, Social and Political Sciences .
We also work closely with researchers from human geography engaged in WorldPop to produce novel geo-spatial estimates of key SDG indicators, including adolescent childbearing.
Areas of particular focus include sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR), as well as maternal, child and adolescent health, HIV/AIDS, disability and health systems.
For example, projects working in Central and South America aim to improve the sexual and reproductive health of women and mothers, especially those in protracted displacement.
We also work on issues related to the well-being of internally displaced persons in Ukraine.
We have a long-lasting collaboration with the African Health Research Institute studying HIV/AIDS and other diseases in South Africa, especially among couples.
Our work on lower limb conditions in Nepal and Cambodia analyses the prevalence of the conditions with the aim of raising awareness and support.
Finally, during the Covid-19 pandemic, our staff have been involved with projects on maternity care in the UK and around the world.
Explore our Social Statistics and Demography news and events pages to find out more about our activities.
Email: A.R.Channon@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5673
Email: B.G.Perelli-Harris@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7180
Email: kristine.nilsen@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2749
Email: L.Andriano@soton.ac.uk
Email: N.McGrath@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381205749
Email: RJ.Harris@soton.ac.uk
Email: S.Padmadas@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4382
Email: S.Neal@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2515
Email: Zoe.Matthews@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2710
We are interested in working with PhD research in a number of areas related to Global Health.
Our main areas of interest are: Maternal and child health Geospatial analysis of health Sexual and reproductive health and rights Health inequities Access to health services Disability and health Please look at the profiles of the members of the group and the whole department to identify relevant academics and get in contact to discuss further.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/global-health-community-of-practice:
It provides a space to share information, raise options for discussion, create bi-directional connections between the University of Southampton and low- and middle-income country partners and to support the University in having greater global health impact.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/gravity:
Research conducted by the Southampton Gravity group focuses on gravitational waves, general relativistic spacetimes around black holes, and the properties of ultra-dense matter in neutron stars, such as superfluidity and superconductivity of nuclear and quark matter.
General Relativity predicts the emission of gravitational waves during the inspiral and coalescence of systems of black holes and neutron stars.
In order to interpret and facilitate the detection of gravitational waves from these, detailed theoretical understanding of general relativity and spacetimes around black holes and neutron stars is required.
Members of the Gravity group study the gravitational collapse and formation of black holes, the dynamics of matter around black holes, and the gravitational radiation-reaction-driven merger of systems of neutron stars and stellar mass, intermediate mass, and supermassive black holes.
Neutron stars are invaluable laboratories for probing the state of matter under extreme conditions, and observations of neutron stars provide complementary information to that obtained from particle accelerators such as the Large Hadron Collider.
Members of the Gravity group model the complex physics of neutron stars (including supranuclear physics with magnetohydrodynamics and exotic phases of matter like superfluids, superconductors, and deconfined quarks) and the observational signatures of these physics (for example as seen from radio and X-ray pulsars as well as gravitational waves from neutron star mergers).
Find out more about our regular Gravity seminars .
Email: A.Pound@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7375
Email: A.Haber@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8129
Email: A.Schmitt@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5114
Email: C.J.Gundlach@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5116
Email: David.Trestini@soton.ac.uk
Email: I.Hawke@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8993
Email: D.I.Jones@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4829
Email: J.E.Thompson@soton.ac.uk
Email: L.Barack@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5134
Email: LHS.Yu@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7563113124
PhD applications are welcome every academic year in the fields of gravitational waves, black holes, and neutron stars.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/high-power-fibre-lasers:
Our research is focused on higher powers, new wavelengths from the ultra-violet to the mid-infrared, and new fibre designs for pulsed and cw applications in areas such as aerospace and materials processing.
We employ cladding-pumping to reach high powers and use fibre Raman devices and crystals for wavelength conversion.
We work in close collaboration with the Silica Fibre Fabrication Group which fabricates many of the fibres we use.
We also collaborate with a number of commercial and non-commercial partners (Collaborations) locally as well as globally.
Email: jn@orc.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3101
The following PhD projects are open for applications:

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/hollow-core-fibre:
We develop and produce hollow core fibres, a modern type of flexible glass fibre that guides light within a hollow space at the centre of the fibre.
Hollow core fibres have the potential to revolutionise quantum communication, laser delivery in industrial and medical applications, and sensing.
Over the past few years, we have successfully developed new designs and are proud to have fabricated the world's lowest loss hollow core fibres.
Hollow Core Fibre Group, Optoelectronics Research Centre, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/human-genetics-genomics-medicine:
Our scientists apply an array of contemporary techniques across many clinical areas incorporating, rare disease, cancer and more common diseases.
We regularly apply ’Omics' technologies to generate vast data and use bioinformatics and different modelling approaches to understand and diagnose human disease.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/infection:
The group’s aims are broad within the remits of infection, immunology and inflammation.
We seek to understand how pathogens causes infectious diseases and use this information to design new vaccines and diagnostic assays.
We are also engaged in the fight against antimicrobial resistance, where bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses adapt to the overuse of antibiotics and drugs to become more dangerous and intractable pathogens.
Our areas of focus include respiratory diseases, sexually transmitted diseases, liver disease and fundamental studies into associated immunological processes.
A particular strength is global outreach, with many researchers within the group sharing extensive international collaborations.
Our main research areas include:
Email: cjm@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381206993
Email: inc@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381206975
Email: J.R.Laver@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381 208896
Email: J.E.Heckels@soton.ac.uk
Email: M.Christodoulides@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381205120
Email: P.N.Hossain@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381204270
Email: R.C.Read@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381206455
Email: s.faust@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381204939
Email: S.C.Clarke@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381 203559
Email: T.W.Clark@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2381208209
Join our community of academics discovering solutions to some of today’s key global healthcare challenges.
Our research is having an impact in areas as diverse as asthma, osteoporosis, antibiotic resistance, developmental origins of adult disease, liver disease and diabetes.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/infrastructure-group:
The Infrastructure Research Group focuses on the sustainability and resilience of civil engineering infrastructure, to address societal needs in energy, mobility and the built environment.
We have expertise across structural and geotechnical engineering, and we work on projects and technologies on land and in the ocean.
We are a group of around 15 academics, working with a team of Research Fellows and PhD students and a network of collaborators across industry, government and other stakeholders.
We are based at Boldrewood Innovation Campus in the National Infrastructure Laboratory (NIL), which is equipped with modern facilities for data-rich structural testing at large and small scale, as well as accelerated small scale geotechnical testing using a centrifuge.
Most of our activities fit 3 main themes:
We engage strongly with transdisciplinary initiatives, to broaden the reach of our activity.
Examples include the Southampton Marine & Maritime Institute and the International Blast Injury Research Network .
We provide specialist training courses on specific topics to industry.
We also engage with industry on a consultancy basis and to aid knowledge transfer from research to practice.
Email: A.Elkady@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2884
Email: A.Rashidimehrabadi@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.G.Mcnaughton@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7771828948
Tel: +44 23 8059 7664
Email: C.Clayton@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +000
Email: C.Anastassopoulos@soton.ac.uk
Email: david.white@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 6859
Email: d.milne@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3759
Email: djr@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2848
Email: g.watson@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2883
We welcome applications to carry out doctoral research in our areas of expertise.
For further information please contact the Head of Group, Professor David White, or our administrative team.
Civil, Maritime and Environmental Engineering Engineering and Physical Sciences University of Southampton Boldrewood Campus Southampton SO16 7QF

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/institute-of-developmental-sciences:
216 Tremona Road
Southampton General Hospital
Southampton
SO16 6HW

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/institute-of-maritime-law:
The Institute of Maritime Law (IML) was founded in 1982 and was the first of its kind in the world.
The focus of the IML is to build on an existing interest in maritime and international trade law as these subjects have historically been a strong feature within law at Southampton.
The IML is now composed of both academic and external experts and since the outset, has established an international reputation as a world-leading centre in Maritime Law.
Law School University of Southampton Southampton SO17 1BJ United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/integrated-photonic-devices:
The Integrated Photonic Devices Group, led by Professor Senthil Murugan Ganapathy , was established in early 1990 by Professor James Wilkinson to meet the demand for optical device functions of increasing complexity and parallelism.
Planar photonic devices are exploited in applications as diverse as telecommunications, tuneable and short-pulse miniature laser light sources, diagnostics in medicine, the environment and food processing, and early-warning sensors for biological agents.
We exploit surface science, waveguide engineering, laser physics and microstructure technology to realise robust mass-producible integrated optical circuits, to further the monolithic integration of diverse devices, and to develop novel materials processing for optoelectronic devices.
The group is currently active in the fields of optical chip-based evanescent wave spectroscopy (Mid-IR and Raman Spectroscopies) for biomedical diagnostics applications and environmental sensing, Disposable chips (silicon and plastic) based point of care devices for rapid and early medical diagnostics (neonatal/respiratory and cancer), Transparent integrated optical chips for on-chip nanoscopy, Integrated Mid-IR spectrometers (on chip), Electro-optic devices based on amorphous materials with induced Pockels effect, Novel optical micro-resonators, waveguide lasers and amplifiers, and micro-structured dielectric films and materials.
Email: avv1a15@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2380590139
Email: E.L.Osborne@soton.ac.uk
Email: hings.luo@soton.ac.uk
Email: jsw@ecs.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2792
Email: Rashad.Fatayer@soton.ac.uk
Email: smg@orc.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7811
Email: S.Boonsit@soton.ac.uk
Email: T.S.Blount@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7807084071

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/interdisciplinary-musculoskeletal-health:
With expertise in regenerative medicine, physiology, engineering, orthopaedics, prosthetics and orthotics, rehabilitation and assistive technologies, epidemiology and clinical trial design, we aim to improve lives by delivering improved treatments, increasing the speed to market of musculoskeletal-focused technology and training the next generation of scientists and engineers.
The population across the globe is living longer, which brings a number of healthcare challenges, especially in musculoskeletal health.
The burden of age-related disease and injury is rising rapidly, having a detrimental impact on people’s quality of life and increasing the costs of healthcare provision.
Loss of muscle mass and function is the leading reason for loss of independence in later life, and causes impaired mobility, falls, fractures, physical disability, increased insulin resistance and associated co-morbidities, and mortality.
The number of hip fractures is expected to rise to 6.3 million by 2050 and the number of diabetic lower limb amputations has now risen to 7,000 per year in the UK and over 70,000 in the USA.
The University is working to meet these challenges by creating networks of experts working in interdisciplinary musculoskeletal health research to develop new technologies, interventions and practices that will have a positive effect on people’s lives:
Email: A.Wilde@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 0624
Email: A.H.El-Sagheer@soton.ac.uk
Email: Adriane.Chapman@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.D.Edwards@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 0128
Email: A.B.Zemkoho@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3863
Email: A.Marchant@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4363
Email: A.Bellato@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.Couto-Alves@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +442380591083
Email: alex.dickinson@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5394

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/international-centre-for-ecohydraulics-research:
Our research quantifies the impact of human activity on freshwater and marine ecosystems.
We help find solutions to manage natural resources and protect biodiversity more sustainably.
Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences Boldrewood Innovation Campus University of Southampton Southampton, SO16 7QF

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/language-assessment-testing-unit:
Welcome to LATU!
We are a research unit within the Centre for Linguistics, Language Education and Acquisition Research (CLLEAR) at the University of Southampton.
The PGR Special Interest Group in Language Testing and Assessment (SIGLTA) that has been running for 10 years is now part of our research unit.
Our vision is to provide a forum for knowledge generation, dissemination and exchange in language assessment and testing and to build new collaborations in this important applied linguistics field.
Our research expertise covers the following areas:
Join us in celebrating the 45th anniversary of the Language Testing Forum (LTF) and the 10th anniversary of the UK Association for Language Testing and Assessment (UKALTA) at this year’s conference!
Our call for papers is open - find out more here.
Email: D.Candarli@soton.ac.uk
Email: Jingwen.Wang@soton.ac.uk
Email: M.A.S.Alsanad@soton.ac.uk
Email: O.Sahan@soton.ac.uk
Email: Ying.Zheng@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7650

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/laser-direct-write-ldw-technologies-for-biomedical-applications:
Over the last few years, our group has been exploring the possibility of using laser to create fluidic devices in one of the most commonly used material: paper.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/law-technology-centre:
The Law and Technology Centre brings together scholars with interests in the intersection of law and technology.
The Centre is part of Southampton Law School and enables its members to explore research synergies and collaboratively respond to current socio-technological and rapidly unfolding legal developments.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/long-term-conditions:
We collaborate with local authorities, health organisations and national agencies, from NHS England and Health Education England to hospitals, charities and research teams around the world.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/mathematical-modelling:
The modelling group focuses on mathematical modelling across science and engineering, including physics (from the physics of quanta and strings to that of liquid crystals), chemistry (modelling lithium-ion batteries and solar cells), engineering (controlling sound direction), biology, medicine and healthcare (from stem cell population dynamics to medical imaging and healthcare models).
The underlying theme of the group is the application of rigorous mathematical models to quantitatively analyse and understand in depth problems in science and engineering.
We have a wide range of mathematical expertise and techniques in modelling, from partial differential equations, to agent modelling, dynamical systems, or topological methods.
Often, the research take place in close interdisciplinary collaborations.
As an example, we have developed a very successful model of lithium-ion batteries by combining classical differential equation modelling with asymptotic analysis and state of the art coding to produce a software package that is both fast and comprehensive.
Other examples are the application of asymptotic analysis in controlling aircraft sounds, stochastic methods in modelling gene expression and agent-based techniques in healthcare.
We apply topological data analysis to model phase transitions of mesoscopic physical systems, and to enhance and up-scale optical imaging in medical applications, as precursors to efficient machine learning and data analysis.
Email: A.Tyukov@soton.ac.uk
Email: A.Etkin@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 7388 616665
Email: B.S.Withers@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3652
Email: C.Lobo@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3681
Email: C.R.Mafra@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5148
Email: C.Chowdhury@soton.ac.uk
PhD applications are welcome every academic year in every aspect of mathematical modelling.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/medicines-management:
Medicines are a critical part of managing many health conditions.
Optimising medicines includes prescribing responsibly, in partnership with patients using a shared decision-making approach.
Supporting patients using a person-centred approach has the potential to improve their experience of managing medicines, as well as symptom control.
Good medicines management may also help reduce NHS costs - lessening use of health care resources caused by medicines-related harm, as well as contributing to NHS net zero targets through reducing medicines waste.
Our research includes a focus on medicines management by a range of health professionals working in a number of health care contexts.
Major research led by Professor Sue Latter has evaluated nurse and pharmacist prescribing and has significantly influenced national and international policy.
Our research findings were pivotal in persuading the Government to reform prescribing legislation, empowering healthcare professionals to prescribe medicines independently.
Our research focuses on key global issues in medicines management:
Research in the Medicines Management group is inter-disciplinary: we collaborate with leading academics and clinicians from medicine, pharmacy, psychology, paramedicine and health economics, to deliver important new evidence to influence policy and practice on this critical health care issue.
Our studies include systematic reviews, qualitative research, large scale surveys, case study research, mixed methods research and feasibility trials.
Email: A.D.Herklots@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7883
Email: F.OMalley@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7627
Email: N.C.Campling@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8228
Email: S.M.Latter@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7959

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/molecular-precision-biosciences:
Molecular interactions amongst biomacromolecules such as proteins, nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), carbohydrates and lipids are responsible for nearly every task of life.
This includes how genetic information is read, replicated, repaired, catalysing biochemical reactions and maintaining cell shape and communication.
Our knowledge of what these interactions look like, how they lead to function, and when and where they are present is key to understanding biology.
Just as importantly, as molecular bio-scientists we strive to improve detection and interrogation of these interactions at ever increasing precision; developing new technologies to understand biological questions in cancer, antimicrobial resistance, neurodegenerative disease, and vaccine development.
Our theme is excitingly positioned at discipline boundaries, our members interfacing chemistry, physics, and or computational and AI technologies with biology to achieve more detailed, more precise, and increasingly impactful insights into the molecular machinery governing cellular life, and death.
Email: A.Lawrence@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2335
Email: B.L.Nicholas@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4204
Email: C.N.Birts@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4423
Email: D.A.Doyle@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4307
Email: E.Reading@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3847
Email: elisa.fadda@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/multiwavelength-accretion-astronomical-transients:
We are a leading group in the UK researching the growth and evolution of compact objects.
This includes white dwarfs, neutron stars and black holes across their full mass scale.
We use multiwavelength observations to examine the relationship between the phenomena of accretion and outflows.
This is bringing us closer to understanding how some of the most extreme objects in the cosmos form, grow and change with time, and how they impact their surrounding galaxies.
We use frontline photometric and astrometric surveys to find new and hidden black holes, and study how they are growing.
We also focus on rapid time-domain studies at multiple wavelengths, including sub-second transients and variables in the night sky.
Explore our latest news and events .
Email: C.Brown@soton.ac.uk
Email: Poshak.Gandhi@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2089
Email: Yue.Zhao@soton.ac.uk
Join our team as a postdoctoral researcher working on the search for and characterisation of black hole binaries in the Milky Way.
If you have an interest in black hole formation mechanisms and familiarity with Gaia, Chandra or other large surveys, we would love to hear from you.
Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/national-centre-for-research-methods:
NCRM is a partnership between three universities with international reputations in methodological research and training in the social sciences: the University of Southampton, The University of Manchester and the University of Edinburgh.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/national-infrastructure-laboratory:
From transport and energy to the built environment and liveable cities, our expertise is helping to create more sustainable and resilient infrastructure, on land and in the ocean.
The National Infrastructure Laboratory (NIL) hosts 5 laboratories that provide world-leading facilities for the testing of structures, components and materials over a range of scales, allowing the long-term behaviour of infrastructure to be understood.
National Infrastructure Laboratory (Building 178), Boldrewood Innovation Campus, Burgess Road, Southampton SO16 7QF
Find us on Google Maps

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/nature-based-ocean-solutions:
Nature-based Solutions (NbS) are actions to protect, sustainably manage, and restore natural or modified ecosystems to address societal, economic and environmental challenges.
Increasingly, NbS feature in adaptation policies and national and international pledges on climate action, sustainable development, biodiversity management, environmental protection and coastal resilience.
Our network links a diverse community of researchers and experts with ocean or blue economy stakeholders: communities; policymakers; the public sector; regulators; non-governmental organisations; engineering consultancies; energy developers.
As a collective, we aim to improve understanding and generate the evidence base for nature-based solutions.
NbS's are important in adaptation and mitigation policies that address climate emergencies and loss of biodiversity.
We want to inform adaptive nature-based solutions for ecosystem restoration and management.
The aim is to alleviate coastal and marine hazards such as coastal flooding and erosion, habitat degradation and biodiversity loss and changing ocean biochemistry.
This will provide healthy ecosystems for climate mitigation, carbon and nutrient management and sustainable food provision.
We want to inform engineering and management practices to enhance community resilience and embed nature-inclusivity in engineering technologies for scalable energy harvesting and renewable energy generation.
This will inform the next generation of engineering designs, to be environmentally friendly and have minimal impact on marine and ocean environments.
To find out more about the Nature-based Ocean Solutions Special Interest Group and what we do, get in touch with group champion Hachem Kassem ( Hachem.Kassem@soton.ac.uk ) and Vicky Dominguez Almela ( V.Dominguez-Almela@soton.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/nonlinear-semiconductor-photonics:
Semiconductor photonics is a thriving area of research, offering optoelectronic solutions for a wide range of applications extending from telecommunications to medicine and sensing.
Within this field, a subdivision that is gaining increased momentum is semiconductor nonlinear photonics as the materials display a number of important nonlinear effects that can be used to generate and process signals at ultrafast speeds.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/ocean-perception-group:
Our focus is on bridging the practical and theoretical state of the art to support marine science.
Building 176, room 3019 Boldrewood Innovation Campus University of Southampton Burgess Road Southampton SO16 7QF

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/optical-engineering-quantum-photonics-group:
Working closely with University spin-out Covesion, we aim to develop advanced functionality devices by modifying and patterning standard optoelectronic materials.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/people-property-community:
We are excellent legal scholars who offer something distinct – a concern with the broader implications of contemporary property ownership.
Our interests include the distribution and regulation of property on a global, national and local scale, the relationship between property and the state, the emergence and reinforcement of property norms, and the politics underpinning individual and alternative forms of ownership.
Social justice is central to our work as we recognise that those excluded from property or marginal to it are at least as deeply impacted by property as those who are owners.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/photonic-systems-circuits-sensors-group:
As a group we have made a significant contribution to the field of photonics.
This includes transceivers, Lidars, environmental and medical sensors, and quantum photonic circuits.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/physical-optics:
Current research includes fundamental studies of poled glasses with large second-order nonlinearities, the creation of new glasses, optical fibres and waveguides with nonlinearity comparable with that in the best nonlinear crystals, and development of practical devices such as all-fibre frequency doublers, parametric frequency converters, electro-optic modulators, switches and electric field sensors.
Another activity involves advanced photosensitivity and femtosecond direct writing of 3D photonic structures.
Photonic structures patterned in three dimensions providing entirely new functionalities offer tantalising possibilities in the field of integrated optics, for example switches and compact delay lines, and micro-optics, for example embedded diffractive optics arrays for interconnection and synthesis of light beams.
Current interests and future directions also include integrated quantum optic devices, such as atomic clocks, atom interferometers and quantum computers.
The field of laser cooling and trapping atoms for cold atom optics promises numerous important applications and we are working to advance this technology and create a cold atom laboratory on a microchip.
Professor Peter Kazansky has found a way to store data on near-indestructible glass that could last for billions of years.
The glass is featured in Guinness World Records as 'most durable digital storage medium'.
With the help of Nova Spivack of the Arch Mission Foundation , they aim to secure human history, art and culture in space for eternity.
Watch a news report about the project on YouTube
We are working with Microsoft on Project Silica , a project to develop the first ever storage technology designed and built from the ground up for the cloud.
Email: pgk@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3083

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/primary-care:
Aldermoor Health Centre Aldermoor Close Southampton SO16 5ST

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/quantum-light-matter-group:
The research group shares a common interest in the nanoscale properties of matter and their interactions with light.
Our work aims to advance fundamental knowledge and emerging applications in important areas such as quantum technology, energy, photonics and nanoscience.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/silica-fibre-fabrication:
We conduct fundamental and applied research in the field of optical fibre technology covering materials science, new fibre designs and fabrication techniques required for high-power lasers, generation of new wavelengths, sensing, and telecommunications.
The Silica Fibre Fabrication group, led by Professor Jayanta Sahu, focuses on the research of novel silica-based fibres and the methods used to fabricate them.
We strive to create the most advanced fibres for each photonics application, while simultaneously developing the next-generation of fibre fabrication techniques.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/silicon-photonics:
Our work addresses major technological and societal challenges, with a focus on areas where silicon photonics can make a big impact.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/skin-sensing-research-group:
We are a multidisciplinary research group advancing knowledge of skin function, health, technology, and comfort.
We work with healthcare providers, policy makers and industry to optimise the performance of medical devices and co-design new technologies that promote health skin, thermal comfort, and the prevention of chronic wounds.
The Skin Sensing Research Group welcomes your enquiries.
a.p.pogosian@soton.ac.uk
caflab1@soton.ac.uk
Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm UK time

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/southampton-ethics-centre:
We organise ethics-focused events, and showcase ethics-related work underway at the University.
We have members from schools and departments across the University.
These include the sciences, humanities, social sciences and medicine.
Our members are also active in a variety of research centres.
These centres explore topics like citizenship, law, globalisation and intercultural relations.
We aim to nurture collaborations across the University on ethics-related issues.
We also promote ethics-focused events.
Our annual lectures include Ethical Challenges, and Philosophy, Politics and Economics.
We host a Southampton Ethics Centre Seminar each semester.
We offer online workshops exploring ethics in relation to a range of topics.
These include artificial intelligence, race, and climate change.
Our regular bulletins contain information about ethics-related events and activities across the university.
Explore our news and events pages to find out more about our activities.
Email: A.M.Gregory@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 9396
Email: A.E.Russell@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3306
Email: A.J.Pinnock@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 6048
Email: amcb@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 7483
Email: B.M.Mcelwee@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5847
Email: C.Armstrong@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 3072
Email: C.D.McLean@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 8285
Email: C.Enemark@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4442
Email: C.McHugh@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 4455
Faculty of Arts and Humanities, University of Southampton, Avenue Campus, Southampton, SO17 1BF

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/southampton-health-technology-assessments-centre:
Our expertise in evidence synthesis, health economics and information science informs timely policy decisions on the use of new healthcare technology and services, directly benefitting patients and ensuring good value for money for our health service.
For over 20 years, SHTAC has specialised in assessing the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a wide range of health and care services and technologies.
We review, summarise and critique evidence for the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), and contribute to research studies evaluating promising new interventions.
Located in the School of Healthcare Enterprise and Innovation, we engage with service providers, business partners and stakeholders from public bodies and the life sciences industries.
In addition to research, we work on knowledge exchange and enterprise activities.
Our popular introductory training courses on systematic reviews and health economic evaluation disseminate critical knowledge and skills, increasing capacity in health technology assessment locally and on a national scale.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/high-energy-physics-group:
Particle physics is the study of the most elementary constituents of matter, the basic forces of nature by which they interact, and their role in the early Universe.
The study of particle physics relies on experiments ranging from huge particle accelerators to deep underground laboratories, to orbiting satellites, to particle simulations using the most powerful computers.
School of Physics and Astronomy Building 46 University of Southampton Highfield campus Southampton SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/southampton-imaging:
Most fundamental developments have come to fruition because of imaging.
Our scientists are developing and using ground-breaking imaging techniques to solve some of society’s biggest challenges in areas such as age-related conditions including dementia, musculoskeletal and cancer, infectious diseases, respiratory medicine, environmental health and climate change.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/southampton-theory-astrophysics-gravity:
STAG researchers are interested in problems ranging from the ultimate building blocks of matter to dynamics on cosmological scales, and actively engage with high-profile international experiments and observational facilities.
STAG runs a regular interdisciplinary seminar series, hosts international visitors and arranges high-profile research colloquia including the annual STAG lecture.
Follow us on Bluesky

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/stefan-cross-centre-for-women-equality-law:
Southampton Law School launched the Stefan Cross Centre for Women, Equality & Law (SCC) in September 2018, thanks to a generous donation from Southampton Law School alumnus, Mr Stefan Cross KC.
The SCC provides a forum to study the structural, societal, legal and regulatory issues associated with gender discrimination from a multi-disciplinary perspective.
Our research seeks to better understand the roots of the phenomenon, with the aim of promoting more effective ways to address it.
The SCC aims to disseminate its research through a variety of channels (including academic publications, conferences, and participation in government consultation processes) to inform policy, drive change and, ultimately, reduce discrimination.
Join the SCC Mailing List

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/string-theory-holography:
The string theory and holography group has a wide range of research interests spanning theoretical physics, ranging from the fundamental structure of string theory and quantum field theory through to black holes, quantum information and cosmology.
The holographic principle relates gravitational theories to quantum theories without gravity in one less dimension and the development of holography is a key part of the group’s research portfolio.
Holography is key to the conceptual understanding of fundamental physics and is an important tool in addressing longstanding questions around the quantum physics of black holes and early universe cosmology.
Development of string theory and holography frequently requires the development of novel mathematics, particularly in areas related to geometry.
Learn about the group's events by visiting our seminar page .
Email: D.J.Turton@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 5142
Email: E.I.Marieni@soton.ac.uk
Email: F.M.Haehl@soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 2380597493
Email: ffg1m24@soton.ac.uk
Email: ida.ghazvini-zadeh@soton.ac.uk
PhD applications are welcome every academic year in the fields of string theory and holography.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/india-centre-for-inclusive-growth-sustainable-development:
Empowering Knowledge | Inspiring Innovation | Accelerating Impact
Established in March 2019, the University India Centre serves as a living bridge connecting world-leading scientists, policy experts, and stakeholders from Southampton and India to tackle critical global challenges.
Guided by the University’s triple helix model, it accelerates impact through innovations in research, enterprise, education, and knowledge exchange, delivering evidence-based solutions for inclusive growth and sustainable development.
We deliver evidence-based solutions and unlock opportunities for high-level policy change in India, UK and globally.
We are driven by excellence and quality, underpinned by our values embracing diversity, inclusivity, social responsibility, environmental sustainability and equitable partnerships with Indian institutions.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/the-parkes-institute:
The Parkes Institute is a world-renowned centre of Jewish studies.
We comprise scholars, archivists, librarians and students and are home to one of the largest Jewish archives in Europe.
We specialise in Jewish history, the Ancient World, migration studies and Holocaust research and heritage.
The institute hosts a wealth of Anglo-Jewish materials as well as the personal papers of our namesake, Reverend Dr James Parkes.
Faculty of Arts and Humanities, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/tony-davies-high-voltage-laboratory:
We have several active industrial partnerships, and our state-of-the-art facilities are also used for commercial testing, supported by a specialist engineering team.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/groups/ultrafast-x-ray-group:
This radiation can be used for imaging and spectroscopy at very small dimensions (<50nm) and at very fast timescales (<10fs).
The Ultrafast X-ray group works on the generation and uses of extreme ultraviolet (XUV) and soft X-ray radiation using high energy femtosecond laser pulses.
The X-rays are produced using high harmonic generation (HHG), a process which uses electron ejection and recombination to produce very short (attosecond) pulses of light.
Soft X-ray radiation has many important uses.
Its short wavelength makes it ideal for high-resolution microscopy.
Many chemicals have absorption edges in the soft X-ray region, making it an important area for spectroscopy.
Finally, the time resolution available from the generated pulses gives us the overall possibility of femtosecond time resolution and nanometre spatial resolution within the same instrument, which opens whole areas of exciting new science.
The research effort in this area is multi-disciplinary.
Within the ORC we collaborate with Dr Peter Horak, an expert in nonlinear optics.
The group has strong collaborations with the School of Chemistry (Prof Jeremy Frey, Dr.
Russell Minns), where X-ray scattering using more traditional sources is a long-standing and prestigious research area (the National Centre for X-ray crystallography is based in Southampton Chemistry).
More recently, we are building collaborations with the Institute for Life Sciences in biological imaging (John Chad, Katrin Deinhart), and the Rosalind Franklin Institute.
Key to the process of soft X-ray microscopy with HHG sources is the use of phase retrieval techniques.
These are computer algorithms that allow us to generate an image without the use of an objective lens.
The scattered light from the illuminated object is collected, and the phase information necessary to recreate an image of the object, lost during the collection process, is recreated using an iterative algorithm.
These algorithms can now be combined with machine learning to create new imaging techniques on the nanoscale.
Email: wsb@orc.soton.ac.uk
Tel: +44 23 8059 2042
Optoelectronics Research Centre University of Southampton Southampton SO17 1BJ

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/vision-science:
The Vision Science research group is interested in understanding the fundamental cause of blinding eye diseases and then translating these insights into treatments for patients.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/wsa-exchange:
We are WSA Exchange at Winchester School of Art.
We offer services to help transform society (business and civic) by bringing together academic staff, students, research users, wider groups and communities to exchange ideas, evidence and expertise.
We provide expert consultancy to scope, shape and deliver ground-breaking projects.
Whether you are looking for a workshop for your team, an insight report or face-to-face strategic advice through a series of dedicated meetings, we can help.
WSA Exchange
Winchester School of Art
Park Ave
Winchester
SO23 8DL

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/work-futures-research-centre:
Our research covers everything from digital labour to social care, work organisations across the private, public and third sectors, and employees whether on salaries, contracts, or unemployed.
The WFRC is coordinated by 4 directors and a steering group of researchers from across a range of University departments.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/business/develop-organisation/invest-start-ups/spinout-equity-guide:
Following an extensive consultation with academic staff, spinout founders, the University’s Entrepreneurs-in-Residence, investors and other key stakeholders in spinout success, the University of Southampton is launching an updated Spinout Equity Guide.
Driven by our vision and strategic objectives for enterprise, the University shall take equity in new spinout companies at an investor attractive and key founder friendly level with a principal aim of boosting this important economic impact generating activity.
However, it is also essential that we ensure all support to our spinout formation activities remains at a financially self-sustainable level, hence reviews shall be conducted (at 3-year intervals) in the future to evaluate the achieved and future intellectual property fees and return from equity as a consequence of this change.
I thoroughly support this new Spinout Equity Guide and wish to see many more spinouts emerge from the fantastic research and innovation work going on in our Faculties.
Our new equity levels are extremely progressive and ambitious and compliant with the Independent Spinout Review recommendations, and I hope it encourages our innovators to consider the spinout route.
The new Spinout Equity Guide outlines the level of equity that the University will take in new spinout companies (See Table 1).
When a university spinout company is created the sharing of equity is agreed between the founder researchers and the University.
New arrangements for institutional and individual founders equity sharing are now being implemented.
This Guide aims to improve the experience of spinout founders, incentivise academics and researchers to take part in spinout activity, provide improved terms for spinout founders to maximise their company’s chances of success and enhance the speed of deal making by removing previous barriers to concluding negotiations.
This Guide aligns with the TenU USIT Guides and is fully compliant with the recommendations of the Independent Spinout Review.
Knowledge intensive spinout means where there is significant University intellectual property (IP) involved.
This may include, but is not limited to, patents or patentable inventions, significant confidential know-how, and or significant other non-patent IP, other than Software.
It may also include, where the University has provided significant initial institutional support to the generation of relevant IP.
For example, significant infrastructure, salary support, IP protection expenses and innovation or translational funding.
This may take the form of Higher Education Innovation Funding (HEIF), UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Impact Acceleration or seed investment funding.
It may also include, where there has been material research funding from a third party for the relevant University IP.
Software spinout means where there is Software IP involved (where other minor know-how directly supporting the Software may also be included) and there has been very low initial institutional funding or other infrastructure support (such as high performance computer resource) provided in the generation of relevant IP and where there is nil or negligible research funding from any third party funder.
Further details on how the University will decide on this classification is described further in Section 4 below.
The decision to reduce institutional founding equity from 33.3% to either 10% or 5%, was made to be founder-friendly and to increase investor attractiveness for the University’s early-stage new spinouts.
Note, the figures quoted in Table 1 are applied where the University of Southampton is the exclusive owner of IP to be licensed to the spinout and there is no collaborating partner institution involved, including any inventors from a collaborator.
If the background research and IP generation was collaborative with other institutions, then the University will work with its founders and other institution(s) to agree a founding equity allocation that may vary from the Table 1 figures above.
This is further detailed in Section 6.
The remainder of this page explains why the Spinout Equity Guide is being introduced, what it means for new University spinouts and for those having already started the process of being created.
The new Guide sets the founding equity share in spinout companies at 90% for founder researchers and 10% for the University.
These equity percentages are applied when the spinout is classed as a knowledge intensive spinout company.
When the spinout company is classified as a software spinout, the founding equity share will be 95% for founder researchers and 5% for the University.
In certain circumstances involving third parties or other cases, some additional calculation factors will be involved, this is explained further in points 5, 6 and 12.
This guide’s new equity levels reflect the University’s commitment as a ‘triple helix’ institution to further strengthen our enterprise and knowledge exchange activities.
We aim to grow our business and economic impact through supporting innovation and our entrepreneurial founders to maximise the global impact of the University’s research and expertise.
We hope this progressive stance will be an attractor for new staff, students and potential investors.
The guide is an open, transparent statement to researchers and investors about equity sharing arrangements.
It emphasises an equity stake for the University at the lower end of the USIT Spinout Guide recommended range, which enables the spinout to incentivise founder researchers and attract experienced management teams and investors.
It removes the need for prolonged negotiations in all cases which will make spinout formation faster, easier and more transparent.
The Guide will be in operation as from 31 May 2024.
The University expects to apply the new Guide to all spinout companies progressing towards completion, presuming that the relevant founders are content with this proposal.
The University recognises that different spinout company types have differing levels of historic institutional support in the research that created the relevant IP.
Also, the IP types themselves reflect different levels of commercial value with patents being regarded highest amongst industry and investor organisations.
Spinout companies have varying investment funding profiles and development timeframes to reach their respective markets.
They may generate greater commercial and technical progress through high quality talent hiring and have less reliance on core licensed University IP that is developed post spinning out.
These factors have been covered in detail in the USIT Spinout Guide and USIT Guide for Software.
Due to these different profiles, some companies are better suited to differing, appropriate arrangements of equity rewarding and overall shareholder allocations.
The University of Southampton has considered all these factors during its consultation activity and supports the conclusion of the USIT Guides.
The University’s new guide has 10% University equity allocation for knowledge intensive spinout companies (in the first USIT Guide recommended range) and a 5% University equity allocation for software spinouts (in the USIT Guide for Software recommended range).
At Schedule 1- Part A, we include a decision flow diagram to be used for categorising a new spinout as either a knowledge intensive spinout or as a software spinout.
Research and Innovation Services department of the University will work with founder teams and involving any supporting investors at that time and shall advise how the decision flow diagram has been applied in each specific case.
The decision shall be made and confirmed prior to seeking the approval in principle for spinout from the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise Board (KEE Board).
In the event of any founders’ disagreement on classification at this stage, the matter may be escalated within the University up to the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise Board and any final decision shall be made by the Vice President, Research and Enterprise.
The University has deliberately set the equity levels at the lower end of recommended ranges to progressively encourage quick negotiations and reach agreement on spinout commercial terms.
If the spinout founders decide to include external individuals who are not University employees as members of the founding team (for example as a CEO or other key post in the Company), those individuals will share in the 90% or 95% that the researcher founders are expected to allocate at formation.
This includes the issue of shares or the creation of option pools for management teams at formation prior to any funding round.
The University will be diluted along with all other shareholders by any subsequent option pool that is put in place after a funding round for employee incentives.
Where the University is required to share any part of its institutional founding equity with a third-party research funder, this reduction of the founding equity held by the University will normally be borne pro-rata by the University and the founders.
In some cases, relevant IP to be licensed may involve historic collaborating institutions and their inventors.
Where these institutions and external inventors are not involved in the Company, then, the University shall agree a fair and reasonable revenue share with the collaborating institution in consideration of the University being given the exclusive right to commercialise IP through the Spinout Company.
The revenue share allocation to the other institution(s) shall be borne pro-rata by the University and the founders.
In Schedule 2, Table 3 and 4 show how the pro rata calculations work.
These show post revenue share allocations to founders, the University and revenue sharing organisation, for the case of a Knowledge Intensive spinout (90% to 10%) and a Software spinout (95% to 5%), respectively.
In almost all revenue share cases, such third parties will not directly hold shares in the Company themselves, but these are held on account by the University (on behalf of the third party).
Therefore, such third party would be expected to enter into a revenue share agreement with the University and at the time of any payment received by the University from or resulting from the Company, then, the University would pay the relevant proportion of that money on to the (revenue sharing) third party.
Where other institutions and their inventors are playing a significant role in the spinout, including generating the relevant IP, then these would be regarded as additional founding-institution shareholders.
In which case, the standard equity levels will need to be modified to take account of the other institution’s spinout equity approach.
The University will work with its founders and other institution(s) to agree a founding equity allocation that fairly reflects all the relative contributions to IP generation and all company founding roles.
This mutual agreement may require variation from the Table 1 figures.
The Decision Flow Chart 2 (in Schedule 1 – Part B) will apply to Spinout Classification in such cases with other founding institutions.
Both company founders and any such researchers or technical staff are covered by the University’s Intellectual Property regulations , hence all these individuals will be rewarded for the spinout’s future use of the IP (through the IP Licence Agreement).
The University acknowledges that equity reward is primarily focused on creating future value in the spinout.
Founders should recommend to the University the allocation of:
In the case that a) allocates equity for non-founders, this shall form part of the share (either 90% or 95%) that the researcher founders are to allocate at formation.
In recognition of the substantial allocation of initial equity to themselves, company founders and other University member shareholders will waive their rights to receive any other share from University royalties or from proceeds of share sales (from that spinout) that it may receive in the future.
If the IP licence agreement between the University and the Spinout is field limited, and the University licences (out of field) the IP to another organisation, then standard inventor distributions apply for such additional licence fees.
The following further Intellectual Property Fees will also be included in any spinout IP Licence and are aligned with the ranges published in the USIT Guides.
These fees have been decided with the key aim to assist in early-stage company financial sustainability, while sharing a fair and reasonable proportion of the return from its later stage commercial success.
IP Royalty and Other Fees:
Note: For early stage technologies, the USIT Guide is 0% to 2%, however, this has been re-stated here as 1% to 2% due to the University of Southampton’s equity position which is at the bottom end of USIT recommended range.
We are wanting to ensure the spinout gets equitable and appropriate access to other IP that may provide the spinout with greater chances of future success but also to ensure fair return to other inventors/creators of the new IP and any terms agreed to fairly reflect all relevant support for new IP generation.
We also want to ensure that other IP has the best chance to be progressed and is only licensed where there is a commitment to take it forward.
Therefore, licence rights to non-severable improvements of the licensed technology (the ‘technology pipeline’) will be incorporated into the IP licence agreement but this will be time limited.
These would be focused on unencumbered founder generated IP and not more widely generated across the University.
Other University IP generated by the founders or their research group may be offered at a future stage where the University believes it is relevant to the spinout and the Company has the capacity to take forward.
The terms for this would be negotiated at the appropriate time and a separate licence entered into.
The University’s primary objective from IP commercialisation activities, such as creating spinouts, is to help create business and economic impact.
The level of financial return remains important to the extent that as a charitable organisation we must balance sources and uses of all income.
This includes making an assessment on the balance of institutional reward and risk-adjusted individual incentives provided to key personnel.
As a public body, the University’s return overall must be fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory to ensure fair competition is ensured for the use of University owned intellectual property.
The University recommends that equity compensation is an appropriate mechanism for early stage start-ups as it reduces the amount of (licence) fees being paid out during critical company technology and market development stages.
Further, many University spinouts initially remain located in their founding research departments and key personnel often wear ‘dual hats’ for example, through University consultancy, secondment or collaboration services, therefore, a meaningful equity allocation is highly aligned with the strategic partner and governance relationship with the founding institution.
The University has set these equity levels with the intention to reduce lengthy negotiations on equity.
They are at the lowest end of the respective USIT guides and extremely founder friendly and therefore the University is not open to reducing to a lower level.
Where founders and or investors want to remove or further reduce IP licence fees and or get increased rights to future IP, then, we can enter into discussions to increase the equity level to accommodate such objectives.
The University is adopting this guide for the next three years, after which there will be a review (see Section 17).
The University may decide to change the Guide if we are not seeing the level of income we need to sustain all our Spinout focused activity.
The University is not looking to negotiate greater equity levels save in exceptional circumstances.
Two examples of when we might exercise an exception are:
Additionally, in some cases the University may decide to hold no equity in a spinout company.
This is typical where, despite being a viable ongoing business activity, the University’s assessment is that there is no or minimal prospect of achieving a financial return from holding equity.
In such cases, the University shall licence the relevant intellectual property on fair and reasonable arms-length terms.
This practice has been in place at the University previously and shall continue under the new Spinout Equity Guide.
The University wishes to increase the speed of completing spinout deals and supports the recommendations from the USIT Guides and the Independent Spinout Review.
It is actively working on refreshing a number of spinout legal agreements.
Working efficiently with all other stakeholders and their advisers is critical in seeking to create spinout success.
If all parties are appropriately prepared and engage constructively, then the University would seek to reach agreement with all other parties on spinout heads of terms in no greater than two months.
Following that, a further two months will be needed to conclude all final legal negotiations and execute completion proceedings.
Different spinout cases may have varying levels of complexity including, for example, a new spinout sponsored collaboration agreement with the University, the spinout taking laboratory and or office space in a host department, or one of the academic staff taking a partial secondment with the spinout.
Dependent on the complexity and scope of all agreements required for a specific spinout, the timelines may approach the timelines above in more complex cases, but in many cases would be able to take place more quickly due to the new Spinout Equity Guide.
Our current practice is that all equity holdings are held by the University directly.
The University reviews the group structure approach regularly and may consider structuring holdings in spinouts to be in a wholly owned subsidiary.
We will also reserve the right to move holdings from the University to such an entity in any legal documentation we enter into for the formation of the Spinout Company.
In the event that a spinout company shares are sold or produce income such as dividends, then, after sharing with relevant third parties (as described in section 6) above, these returns are used for initiatives, projects and services across the entire University, for which many do not have a guaranteed financial return, such as supporting Faculties, departments and investing in strategic research and innovation initiatives and projects.
These major investments will be developed by the relevant department or Faculty and approved by Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise Board and Finance Committee, where appropriate.
A key principle for all IP commercialisation net returns received by and retained after appropriate distribution by the University is that 50% is shared with the relevant founding Faculty and 50% retained by central University for the purposes described above.
Anti-dilution provisions will not apply to these University founding shares.
The University will take ordinary shares and will be diluted along with other founder shareholders as investment comes into the Company.
Having taken appropriate consultation, the University believes non-dilutable shares are unhelpful in attracting future investors.
Yes, the University will evaluate the success of implementing the new Spinout Equity Guide.
Its assessment shall include the number of companies being formed, the investment levels being achieved, company valuation levels and the success of negotiating equitable licensing royalty fees.
The intention of this strategic change is to drive long-term spinout performance and hence the evaluation shall be conducted every three years going forwards.
To ensure that the University continues to receive appropriate returns, in order to invest further in research and innovation, it is expected that companies will raise investment at valuations which are at least comparable to those achieved before this Guide change.
Some investor feedback raised during the consultation exercise was that larger holdings for non-participating shareholders may drive valuation readjustments in later investment rounds.
However recent data, from the Policy Evidence Unit for University Commercialisation and Innovation, Cambridge , indicates that founding equity level has little or only very modest effect on subsequent investments.
It is hoped that the new University equity level will stimulate more spinouts that are attractive and competitive and set them up for successful future investment rounds.
While the University believes this will result in greater future success, the medium to long-term investment profile of spinouts and valuation levels, including incidence of ‘downround’ valuations will be evaluated in the triennial reviews.
Decision making flow diagram for 'knowledge intensive’ or ‘software’ spinout classification.
University of Southampton and its founders, only, involved in prospective Company (Decision flow chart 1)
University of Southampton, its founders and collaborating institution and its own founding shareholder involved in prospective Company (Decision Flow Chart 2 – University of Southampton leading)
Standard tables showing pro rata factors for revenue sharing party obligations
Table 3: Pro rata calculation table for Knowledge Intensive spinouts (Founders, University and Revenue sharing third party)
Table 4: Pro rata calculation table for Software spinouts (Founders, University and Revenue sharing third party)

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/international/meet-us-in-your-country:
Our friendly international country managers and representatives are based all over the world.
Join us for an in-country or virtual event for prospective students and offer holders.
We’re always happy to meet you in person, or on a video call.
We're here to answer your questions about our subjects and courses, and what it's like to live and study in Southampton.
You can also join one of our on-campus or virtual open days.
Our events are listed by continental regions and are updated regularly.
Explore your country or closest location to find events near you, or to request an online meeting with us.
Event : Virtual meetings with Nadia Gabr, our Africa International Recruitment Manager When : Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call Book a video call with Nadia
Please check back for upcoming events.
Event : Virtual meeting with Donna Haynes, our South East Asia Country Development Manager When: Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call To book a video call, email Donna Haynes at D.Haynes@soton.ac.uk or Jason Ong at J.Ong-Jit-Sim@soton.ac.uk .
Event: International Education Expo 2025 When: Saturday 2 August- 2pm to 6pm Where: Sutera Hall
Event: International Education Expo 2025 When: Sunday 3 August- 2pm to 6pm Where: Swissotel PIK
Event: Jakarta Intercultural School When: Monday 29 September- 11:30am to 12:20pm Where: Jl.
Terogong Raya No.33, Cilandak Bar., Kec.
Cilandak, Kota Jakarta Selatan, Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta 12430, Indonesia
Event: Singapore International School (SIS) South Jakarta When: Monday 29 September- 1:30pm to 3pm Where: Singapore Intercultural School, Jl.
Bona Vista Raya No.8 8, RT.8/RW.6, Lb.
Bulus, Kec.
Cilandak, Kota Jakarta Selatan, Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta 12440, Indonesia
Event: British School Jakarta When: Tuesday 30 September - 9:55am to 10:25am Where: Bintaro Jaya, Jl.
Jombang Raya Sektor 9, Pd.
Pucung, Kec.
Pd.
Aren, Kota Tangerang Selatan, Banten 15427, Indonesia
Event: Global Jaya When: Tuesday 30 September - 12pm to 1pm Where: Jl.
Emerald Boulevard, Parigi, Kec.
Aren, Kota Tangerang Selatan, Banten 15227, Indonesia
Event: ACS Jakarta When: Tuesday 30 September - 2pm to 4pm Where: Cilangkap, Jl.
Bantar Jati, Setu, Kec.
Cipayung, Kota Jakarta Timur, Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta 13880, Indonesia
Event: Sekolah Pelita Harapan – Lippo Village When: Wednesday 1 October - 9am to 12:30pm Where: Lippo Village, Jl.
Boulevard Palem Raya No.2500, Klp.
Dua, Kec.
Klp.
Dua, Kabupaten Tangerang, Banten 15810, Indonesia
Event: Bandung Alliance Intercultural School When: Thursday 2 October - 1:30pm to 3pm Where: Jl.
Bujanggamanik Kav.
Jl.
Parahyangan Raya No.2, Kertajaya, Kec.
Padalarang, Kabupaten Bandung Barat, Jawa Barat 40553,
Event: BPK Penabur Banda When: Friday 3 October - 8:30am to 10am Where: Jl.
Banda No.19, Citarum, Kec.
Bandung Wetan, Kota Bandung, Jawa Barat 40115, Indonesia
Event: Bandung Independent School When: Friday 3 October - 11:30am to 1pm Where: Jl.
Prof.
drg.
Soeria Soemantri No.61, Sukawarna, Kec.
Sukajadi, Kota Bandung, Jawa Barat 40164, Indonesia
Event: ITB When: Friday 3 October - TBC Where: Jl.
Ganesa No.10, Lb.
Siliwangi, Kecamatan Coblong, Kota Bandung, Jawa Barat 40132, Indonesia
Event: October Expo – Jack Study Abroad Indonesia When: Saturday 4 October – 1pm to 5pm Where: Le Meridien Jakarta
Event: UKEC Symposium 2025 with the theme “Spill the Tea: Education and Beyond” When: Sunday 27 July 2025- 10am to 5pm Where: Connexion Conference and Event Centre, Nexus Bangsar South, Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia)
Event: Sunway College Johor Bahru – Annual Education Information Day.
When: Saturday 16 August- 10am to 6pm Where: Sunway College Johor Bahru
Event: Sunway International School.
When: Frirday22August- 11am to 12pm Where: PT 1379, Jalan Subang 1, Usj 1, 47600 Subang Jaya, Selangor
Event: Methodist College Kuala Lumpur.
When: Monday 8 September- 4:30pm to 6pm Where: Off, Jalan Tun Sambanthan 4, Brickfields, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Event: IGB.
When: Tuesday 9 September- 9:30am to 1:30pm Where: Off, Jalan Tun Sambanthan 4, Brickfields, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Event: Charterhouse International School.
When: Tuesday 9 September- 12pm to 1pm Where: Off, Jalan Tun Sambanthan 4, Brickfields, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Event: British International School.
When: Tuesday 9 September- 3pm to-4:30pm Where: Off, Jalan Tun Sambanthan 4, Brickfields, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Event: Help International School.
When: Wednesday 10 September- 12:30pm to 3:30pm Where: Off, Jalan Tun Sambanthan 4, Brickfields, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Event: Garden International School.
When: Thursday11 September- 10:30am to 1:30pm Where: Off, Jalan Tun Sambanthan 4, Brickfields, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Event: Kolej Tuanku Ja’aafar.
When: Thursday11 September- 4pm to 6pm Where: 71700 Mantin, Negeri Sembilan
Event: XCL World Academy When: Tuesday 23 September- 8am to 10am Where: 2 Yishun Street 42, Singapore 768039
Event: Singapore American School When: Tuesday 23 September - 10:30am to 11:30am Where: 40 Woodlands Street 41, Singapore 738547
Event: Dover Court International School When: Tuesday 23 September - 1pm to 2pm Where: 301 Dover Rd, Singapore 139644
Event: UWSEA Dover When: Tuesday 23 September - 3pm to 5pm Where: 1207 Dover Rd, Singapore 139654
Event: Tanglin Trust School When: Wednesday 24 September- 9am to 11am Where: 95 Portsdown Rd, Singapore 139299
Event: Nexus When: Wednesday 24 September- 11am to 1pm Where: 1 Aljunied Walk, Singapore 387293
Event: UWCSEA - East When: Thursday 25 September - 7:30pm to 10:00pm Where: 1 Woodleigh Ln, Singapore 357684
Event: St Joseph’s Institution International When: Thursday 25 September - 11:30am to 1:30pm Where: 1 Woodleigh Ln, Singapore 357684
Event: Overseas Family School When: Thursday 25 September - 2:30pm to 5:30pm Where: 81 Pasir Ris Heights, Singapore 519292
Event: German European School When: Friday 26 September - 8am to 10am Where: 2 Dairy Farm Ln, Singapore 677621
Event: Canadian International School Singapore When: Friday 26 September - 11:30am to 1pm Where: 7 Jurong West Street 41, Singapore 649414
Event: Dulwich College Singapore When: Friday 26 September - 2:30pm to 5:30pm Where: 71 Bukit Batok West Ave.
8, Singapore 658966
Event : GIIS When: Saturday 27 September - 9am to 12pm Where: 27 Punggol Field Walk, Singapore 828649
Event: Hua Hin International School When: Monday15 September- TBC Where: House No.549, Village No.7, Hin Lek Fai, Hua Hin District, Prachuap Khiri Khan 77110, Thailand
Event: Bangkok Prep School Fair When: Tuesday16 September- 8am to 12pm Where: 77 Saeng Thip Alley, Phra Khanong Nuea, Watthana, Bangkok 10110, Thailand
Event: International School Bangkok Fair When: Tuesday16 September - 1pm to 4pm Where: 39/7 Samakkhi 29 Alley, Bang Talat, Pak Kret District, Nonthaburi 11120, Thailand
Event: Bangkok Patana Fair When: Wednesday 17 September - 8am to 12pm Where: 643 ซอย ลาซาล Bang Na Tai, Bang Na, Bangkok 10260, Thailand
Event: Ruamrudee International School Bangkok Fair When: Wednesday 17 September - 1pm to 4pm Where: 6 Soi Ramkhamhaeng 184, Khwaeng Min Buri, Min Buri, Bangkok 10510, Thailand
Event: NIST When: Thursday18 September - 8am to 12pm Where: 36 Sukhumvit 15, Klongtoey-nua Watthana, Bangkok 10110, Thailand
Event: Shewsbury International School When: Thursday18 September - 1pm to 4pm Where: 1922 ถ.
เจริญกรุง Wat Phraya Krai, Bang Kho Laem, Bangkok 10120, Thailand
Event: IDP Bangkok Fair When: Thursday 18 September- 6pm to 8pm Where: IDP Bangkok Silom
Event: CIS - EARCOS When: Friday and Saturday19 - 20 September Where: 89 Wat Suan Phlu Alley, Bang Rak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand
Event: Brit Ed When: Saturday 20 September- 4pm to 9pm Where: The Landmark Bangkok, 7th floor
Event: Pattaya International School Fair When: Sunday 21 September- 11am to 2pm Where: 277 หมู่ที่ 5 Bang Lamung District, Chon Buri 20150, Thailand
Event: British International School Phuket Fair When: Monday 22 September- 8am to 2:30pm Where: British International School, Phuket, 59 Moo 2, Thepkrasattri Road T.
Koh Kaew, A.
Muang Mueang Phuket District, Phuket 83000, Thailand
Event : GSE Education Fair Hanoi When: Saturday 20 September - 2pm to 4:30pm Where: TBC
Event: GSE Education Fair Ho Chi Minh City When: Sunday 21 September - 2pm to 4:30pm Where: TBC
Event: HCMC Global University Fair When: Monday 29 September – 2pm to 5:30pm Where : ISHCMC
Event: HCMC Global University Fair When: Tuesday 30 September – 1pm to 5:30pm Where: British Vietnam International School
Event: Hanoi Global University Fair When: Wednesday 1 October – 9am to 11:30am Where: United International School
Event: Hanoi Global University Fair When: Wednesday 1 October – 1pm to 3:30pm Where: British International School Hanoi
Event: Vietint Educational Fair Hanoi When: Saturday 4 October – 9am to 12pm Where: TBC
Event: Edu UK Study World ISC Hanoi When: Saturday 4 October – 8am to 11:30am Where: Melia Hotel Hanoi
Event: Vietint Educational Fair Ho Chi Minh City When: Sunday 5 October – 9am to 12pm Where : TBC
Event: Edu UK Study World ISC Ho Chi Minh City When : Sunday 5 October – 8am to 11:30am Where: Rex Hotel Ho Chi Minh City
Event : Virtual meeting with Donna Haynes, our South Asia Country Development Manager When: Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call To book a video call, email Donna Haynes at D.Haynes@soton.ac.uk or Jason Ong at J.Ong-Jit-Sim@soton.ac.uk .
Event : Virtual meeting with Zoe Yao, one of our East Asia Country Development Managers When: Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call To book a video call, chat with Zoe
Event : Virtual meeting with Tiefu Zhao, one of our East Asia Country Development Managers When: Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call To book a video call, chat with Tiefu
Event : JJL Beijing Office Meet Up When : 8 June 2025, 3pm to 5pm Where : 15/F, Tower B, IFC International Finance Centre, Building 8, Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing ( 北京市朝阳区建国门外大街 8 号楼 IFC 国际财源中心 B 座 15 层 ) Call 010-56836688 for event details.
Event : University of Southampton - 2025 Beijing Global Education Connect When : 9 June 2025, 2.30pm to 6pm Where : Chaoyang District, Beijing (full address provided after registration) Register online
Event : EIC Shanghai Office Meet Up When : 11 June 2025, 10.30am to 11.30am Where : Floor 29th Ciro’s Plaza, 388 Nanjing West Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai ( 上海黄浦区南京西路 388 号仙乐斯广场 29 层 启德教育 ) Call 021-58214845 for event details.
Event : University of Southampton - 2025 Shanghai Global Education Connect When : 11 June 2025, 2.30pm to 6pm Where : East Nanjing Road, Shanghai (full address provided after registration) Register online
Event : British Council China Study UK Pre-departure briefing - Beijing When : 22 June 2025, 2pm to 6pm Where : 北京威斯汀酒店, The Westin Beijing Chaoyang, 渤海大宴会厅 /Bohaiballroom Visit The British Council China's WeChat account (ID: UK_education) for more details.
Event : British Council China Study UK Pre-departure briefing - Shanghai When : 29 June 2025, 2pm to 6pm Where : 上海锦江汤臣洲际大酒店, InterContinental Shanghai Pudong, 汤臣堂 /Tomson Grand Ballroom Visit The British Council China's WeChat account (ID: UK_education) for more details.
Event : British Council China Study UK Pre-departure briefing - Chengdu When : 6 July 2025, 2pm to 6pm Where : 成都茂业 JW 万豪酒店, JW Marriott Hotel Chengdu., 大宴会厅 1+2/Brand Ballroom1+2 Visit The British Council China's WeChat account (ID: UK_education) for more details.
Event : British Council China Study UK Pre-departure briefing - Guangzhou When : 12 July 2025, 2pm to 6pm Where : 广州粤海喜来登酒店, Sheraton Guangzhou Hotel, 7 楼宴会厅 AB/ 7F Ballroom AB Visit The British Council China's WeChat account (ID: UK_education) for more details.
Event : British Council China Study UK Pre-departure briefing - Wuhan When : 13 July 2025, 2pm to 6pm Where : 武汉万达瑞华酒店 Wanda Reign Wuhan, 香港厅 /HongKong Room Visit The British Council China's WeChat account (ID: UK_education) for more details.
Event : British Council China Study UK Pre-departure briefing - Hangzhou When : 20 July 2025, 2pm to 6pm Where : 杭州 JW 万豪酒店, JW Marriott Hotel Hangzhou, 大宴会厅 A/Grand Ballroom A Visit The British Council China's WeChat account (ID: UK_education) for more details.
Event : University Fair - HKU When : 7 September 2025, 10am to 4:30pm Where : University of Honk Kong Campus
Event : Harrow International School, HK Academy and Wah Yan College When : 8 September 2025 9am to 11am, 1pm to 3pm, 4pm to 5:30pm Where : On each school campus
Event : American International School When :  9 September 2025, 2pm to 4pm Where : 25 Waterloo Road, Kowloon Tong
Event: Amber - UCAS Session 2026 and UK Boarding School When: 1 3 September 2025 11am to 4:30pm Where: 7/F Cordis Hotel, Mong Kok, Kowloon
Event: CAIS University Fair When: 19 September 2025, 5:30pm to 8:30pm Where: 33 King Lam Street, Lai Chi Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Event: Discovery College, Island School, St.Paul's College When: 22 September 2025, 8:30am to 11:30am, 3pm to 5:30pm, 6:30pm to 8:30pm Where: On each school campus
Event: BUES - British United University Fair When: 23 September 2025, 9:20am to 11:20am, 12:20pm to 2:20pm, 3:30pm to 6:30pm Where: On each school campus
Event: West Island School, South Island School When: 24 September 2025, 12pm to 3pm, 4:15pm to 6:15pm Where: On each school campus
Event: German Swiss, Victoria Shanghai Academy, Yew Chung International School When: 25 September 2025, 9am to 11am, 12:45pm to 2:30pm, 4pm to 6pm Where: On each school campus
Event: Uni Fest at Chinese International School When: 26 September 2025, 10am to 11:15am Where: 1 Hau Yuen Path, Braemar Hill, Hong Kong SAR, China
Event: AAS - Tertiary Education Expo When : 27 September 2025, 11am to 4pm Where: 4/F,  Marco Polo Hongkong Hotel, Tsim Sha Tsu
Event: IDP - Overseas Education Info Day 2025 When : 28 September 2025, 11am to 4:30pm Where: 2/F, The Ballroom, The Langham, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Event : Virtual meeting with Joshua Koster, our Europe Country Development Manager When : Throughout the year by arrangement Where : Online video call Book a video call with Joshua
Event : Virtual on in-person meeting with Elodie Sprenger, our UK International Country Development Manager When : Throughout the year by arrangement Where : Online video call or in-person Book a video call with Elodie , or email her at e.sprenger@soton.ac.uk to arrange an in-person meeting.
Event : Virtual meeting with Tom Quante, our Latin and North America Country Development Manager When : Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call Book a video call with Tom
Event : Virtual meeting with Mubarik Ibrahim, International Recruitment Manager (North America) | based in Milwaukee, WI When : Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call Book a call with Mubarik
Event: SI: UK Toronto Fair When: Saturday 27 September 2025, midday to 5pm Where: Hyatt regency, Toronto
Event: SI: UK Calgary Fair When: Tuesday 30 September 2025, 4 to 7pm Where: Master's Academy and College
Event: SI: UK Victoria Fair When: Thursday 2 October 2025, 2 to 6pm Where: St Michael's University School
Event: SI: UK Vancouver Fair When: Friday 3 October 2025, 3 to 7pm Where: Simon Fraser University, Downtown Campus
Event: ULearn Kuwait Conversion Event When: July 12, 2025.
3:30pm to 9:00pm Where: ULearn, floor 10, City Tower, Block 6, Sharq, Kuwait City.
Find it on Google maps .
Event: University of Southampton Pre-departure event When: 15 July 2025, 5pm to 6:30pm Turkey local time (Please make sure you arrive at 17:00 for the start of the presentation) Where: InterContinental Istanbul- Asker Ocagi Caddesi No :1 Taksim 34435 Marmara Region/Istanbul Call: +90 212 368 44 44 Please register your attendance by completing the form .
Event: University of Southampton Pre-departure event When: 13 July 2025, 4pm to 5:30pm UAE local time (please make sure you arrive at 16:00 for the start of the presentation) Where: Renaissance Business Bay Hotel, Dubai Al Abraj Street, Marasi Drive, Business Bay, Dubai Calll: +971 4-873 3333- Amwaj Ballroom Section 1 Please register your attendance by completing the form .
Event : Virtual meeting with Tom Quante, our Australasia Country Development Manager When : Throughout the year, by arrangement Where : Online video call Book a video call with Tom

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/term-dates:
On this page you'll find term and student vacation dates for the current and next academic years.
You'll be able to view your specific course dates on your timetable after you've enrolled.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/rankings-reputation:
The University of Southampton is among the top 24 UK universities committed to maintaining the highest research and teaching standards.
We're also a founding member of the Russell Group - an indicator of quality university education.
The Complete University Guide 2026
QS World University Rankings 2025
QS World Rankings for Sustainability 2025
According to the Daily Mail University Rankings 2025
According to QS World University Rankings 2026
In the QS World Rankings for Sustainability 2025
The National Student Survey (NSS) gathers feedback from mainly final-year undergraduates about their time in UK universities.
Highlights from our NSS 2024 results include:
We are a research-intensive university, with continued substantial growth in research funding and seventh in the UK for the total value of T he Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) grants.
We are also a founding partner of SETsquared , the university business incubator ranked number one in the world by UBI Global.
According to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021:
Southampton is one of the first universities in the UK to be named an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Education.
The Gold Award complements the University's existing status as a Centre of Excellence for Cyber Security Research, which it first obtained in 2012.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/strategy:
Discover what drives and inspires us, including our purpose, vision, goals, values and more.
Our vision and values have a perpetual, unending quality.
To monitor our success an initial five-year set of measures have been identified.
Success will be Southampton positioned as a top 10 UK and towards a top 50 internationally recognised university by the academic year 2027 to 2028.
Supporting strategic plans will contain detailed key performance indicators.
We also recognise that not everything that is important to us can be measured.
Therefore, we will continually review our indicators to make sure we monitor the right things to get a true representation of our success.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/governance.page:
Find key information on governance and regulations, including policies, financial statements, complaints and appeals, and requests and procedures.
You can also learn how the University is structured and everything you need to know about starting your studies.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/our-staff:
Learn about our leaders, policymakers, academic, technical and professional services staff.
They all contribute to the running of the University.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/reputation/history.page:
View our story - from humble beginnings to world-renowned status.
View our timeline to find out more about our major milestones, achievements, awards and archive images.
It all started with a local eccentric - Henry Robinson Hartley.
Hartley was the heir to a family of Southampton wine merchants.
A studious and reclusive character, he had turned his back on the family business and when he died he left his estate to the Corporation of Southampton to promote the study and advancement of science and learning.
The result was the formation of The Hartley Institution, which opened in the High Street, below the Bargate in 1862.
Within three years, the Hartley Institution had a membership of almost 700 – many of these being part-time evening students.
By the 20th century we were already gaining an impressive reputation in spite of our small size.
We became a University College in 1902 and by the 1930s we were winning national grants for our work in Chemistry and Engineering.
Rapid growth of our student population in the 1950s led to a massive expansion of our Highfield campus, and we began to innovate on a national and global level in a number of areas.
Our innovations:
We are famous for being both research driven, and down-to-earth with the needs of business and society.
We now have well over 20,000 full time students , and we are proud to see that they are continuing our traditions of innovation through dedication and hard work.
Together (across all disciplines) we believe we can go on to change the world for the better – one step at a time.
View our timeline of significant events.
The heights yield to endeavour | strenuis ardua cedunt
Our coat of arms signifies our strong connections with our local community, and our commitment to peace and advancement through learning.
Our motto strenuis ardua cedunt means ‘the heights yield to endeavour’, or, in other words 'hard work is what leads to success'.
Find out what makes us a great university today:
read all about our research, economic, and local impact

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/community-culture:
We offer several services in and around Southampton, all of which are open to members of the public as well as our students and staff.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/susdev:
We are creating a more sustainable University of Southampton by working with students, staff and the local community.
This is delivered through the following strategic action-focused routes:
The University of Southampton is ranked on its sustainability progress against other higher education institutions in both global and national league tables.
To find out more about our rankings and work towards showcasing our sustainability activity across the university please find out more here .
Senior Vice-President (Academic) Professor Phillip Wright is the Sustainabilty Strategic Plan Owner and our Sustainability Champion.
• Sustainability Report 2024/25 • Sustainable Development Goals Report • Annual Environmental Management Review 2024• Fossil Fuel Statement • ISO14001 Report 2024
Developed in partnership with the Students Union, our ambitious vision for a more sustainable University determines our time-bound targets and performance indicators.
Get in touch with the Strategy Goal Champions, the Goal Leads, the SIG and other colleagues to find out more about our work.
Read our ISO14001 compliant publicly available Environment and Sustainability Policy, and learn how we report this at the senior university level.
Our internationally certified Environmental Management System accredited to ISO14001 is our commitment to managing our impacts and improving sustainability across our estate and surroundings.
How we manage our carbon emissions and energy efficiency.
How the Investment Committee recognises the importance of Environmental, Social & Governance factors.
Find out how we are making our laboratories more sustainable.
Our Travel Plan for 2020 - 2030 sets out a series of measures to encourage staff, students and visitors to adopt more sustainable travel habits.
Find out about how you can help to get involved in reducing our environmental impact, including sustainable laboratories and societies.
The creation of the SRI provides opportunities for students and staff to be involved in world-leading solutions led research.
How to recycle waste on campus and in halls.
Learn more our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy and actions.
We are improving taste & cutting down on waste.
Our education and student experience in sustainability.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/news-events:
Discover the latest news from the University of Southampton, including our research, enterprise, and teaching activities.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/departments/professional-services.page:
We try to make it as easy as possible for students, staff and visitors to access our services.
Over 2,000 professional services staff work in departments across the University.
They work on day-to-day activities, projects and processes that make us dynamic and efficient.
PCs, internet, phones, networks, advice, and support
Guidance, facilities, and support for all our students
2.5 million volumes, 34,000 journal titles, and 6 million manuscripts
These are our professional service departments and descriptions of the work they do.
Communications and Marketing manages the University's reputation and brand.
They communicate its aims and achievements to stakeholders around the world.
We also manage the stock and sale of University-branded merchandise from our online store.
The Office of Development and Alumni Relations creates mutually beneficial relationships with alumni and other supporters.
We offer opportunities to volunteer, attend University events and to support the University through philanthropic donations.
These donations help to fund key priorities that aid our students in their pursuit of a world-class education and an exceptional student experience.
The Estates and Facilities teams provide a wide range of crucial services to the University.
These include the help-desk, campus security, car parking and cleaning.
The University Faculty Operating Service aims to support Faculties in the achievement of education, research and enterprise excellence, working in partnership with academics, other Professional Services and the wider University Community.
The Finance Department has more than 165 staff working across all University campuses.
They provide services to the University ranging from payroll services to publishing financial statements.
Human Resources supports our staff at every stage of their relationship with the University.
iSolutions manage our computing and information technology facilities for all staff and students .
Legal (corporate) Services supports the University's departments in legal matters, mediation and research governance.
The Media Relations team maintains and enhances the reputation of the University through engagement with all forms of the media, both proactively and reactively.
The team acts as the first point of contact for all media enquiries, and manages and facilitates engagement with local, national, international and specialist media outlets.
Professional Development involves a number of faculties and Professional Services working in partnership to signpost or offer a range of learning and development activities and resources for staff.
Research and Innovation Services supports our world-class academics.
We help them focus on impact, national and global economies, and society.
Health, Safety and Risk Directorate deals with all issues relating to health and safety, risk management, incidents and occupational health for our staff, students and visitors.
Shaping the University's future and implementing strategic change.
The Student and Academic Administration department provides strategic and operational support to the student lifecycle, including admissions, visa guidance, student records, assessment, graduation, student complaints and appeals, curriculum planning and quality and standards.
We encourage prospective students to consider higher education and the University of Southampton.
We also help to attract and support international students and partnerships around the world.
The Student Services department offers a wide range of facilities and support to students.
Services include the Early Years Centre, Sport and Wellbeing, Careers and Employability Service, Enabling Services, Accommodation and the Student Services Centre.
Our University library has five branches located across our campuses.
We have an excellent reputation as one of the leading research libraries in the UK.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/governance/regulations-policies:
Read our general, student, and academic regulations.
You can also find our list of policies and student charter.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/about/departments/online-store.page:
You can now buy University-branded merchandise through SUSU, in The Locker .
Staff members can browse the range and order executive gifts on SharePoint.
If you have any questions about buying executive gifts, email us at unigifts@soton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate:
Visit us at an open day in 2025, to find out more about your subject of interest and decide whether Southampton is the right place for you.
Visit Highfield Campus, Avenue Campus, Boldrewood Innovation Campus, Waterfront Campus (NOCs) and accommodation sites on our 2025 undergraduate open days.
Book your place
Visit our Winchester School of Art Campus and Erasmus Park accommodation site on our 2025 undergraduate open days.
If you would like to visit both Highfield campus and Winchester School of Art on the same day, please register to visit on Sunday 5 October.
Book now

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/open-days/postgraduate:
Find out more about our upcoming postgraduate virtual and on-campus events.
Meet staff and students, and learn all about postgraduate study.
Considering a postgraduate degree?
Watch our virtual open day recording to find out how a master's can enhance your career and earning potential.
Hear subject talks presented by academics across disciplines, from Biomedical Sciences to Philosophy.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/open-days/campus-tours:
Visit us in Southampton and take a tour of Highfield campus, the academic heart of our University.
The home to social events, sports facilities and our Students' Union.
Campus tours give you the opportunity to explore the places you'll study and socialise as a University of Southampton student.
Walking tours last around two hours and include our Wessex Lane halls of residence .
Here you'll see example bedrooms to get a feel for what it's like to live in halls.
Our next set of campus tours will take place in Spring 2026.
Complete this short form to be notified when bookings are available.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/my/undergraduate/open_days.page:
University of Southampton Malaysia (UoSM) Open Days take place in Malaysia (not at our UK campus)
UoSM Open Days are the perfect opportunity for you to explore our Malaysia campus facilities, join us in Q&A sessions and even attend on-the-day interviews.
Here, at our campus within the world-renowned education hub of Eco botanic, Iskandar Puteri, you’ll discover everything you need to know about university life in Malaysia and the UK.
The University of Southampton's UK campus also offers Open Days.
You can find out more about them here .
Attend our Q&A sessions and get the opportunity to participate in workshops, meet with academics and tour our campus.
Campus tour
Explore our teaching and laboratory facilities, learn about the facilities at our UK campus, meet our world-leading academics, and find our more about our undergraduate degree courses.
Take a look around the Student Village and the exceptional physical recreation and sporting facilities at Eco Botanic, which include a gym, football pitch, track and field stadium, and a 50-metre swimming pool.
This is your chance to ask us about anything that might be on your mind as the parent of a prospective student, and to take an informative laboratory tour from our academic staff.
If you have submitted an application at least a week before attending one of our Open Days, you may also be able to have an interview on the day.
Contact us for more details.
Maps and directions to help you plan your visit to University of Southampton Malaysia.
Take a virtual tour of our campus at the University of Southampton.
Our students reveal their top 5 things that they like about the University of Southampton Malaysia.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/benefits.page:
As a University of Southampton graduate, you can take advantage of a whole range of benefits and offers that are exclusive to you.
Make sure your details are up to date here so we can stay in touch and keep you up to date with your latest alumni benefits.
If you are a current student, you do not need to wait until graduation to take advantage of these benefits – there are still ways you can get involved and build a relationship with the alumni community you will soon becoming a part of.
Explore the many benefits and services we offer from continued learning opportunities to exclusive events across the globe, or read our alumni brochure for more detail on everything your alumni community has to offer.
Please note, all alumni benefits are offered by the University on a discretionary basis and are subject to change.
View some of the benefits in detail below
As an alumni, you are entitled to a range of offers and discounts.
Lost touch with University friends?
Let us know and we'll try to reconnect you.
Access lifelong careers support or share knowledge of your sector.
Find out about the generous alumni discount you can receive on Southampton Sports membership.
Find out more about the global alumni community.
Get involved in future alumni events and register online.
Let us know how you are getting on by keeping us up to date.

New sentences found on https://southampton.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/volunteer-give.page:
At Southampton, we’re a community.
From our staff and students to our many thousands of connected alumni and supporters around the world.
Working together makes us stronger—helps us tackle global challenges and break down barriers.
We improve and save lives through transformative research.
We nurture and support students from all backgrounds through our inclusive programmes.
You can help us do more.
Whether it’s through giving time, donating, or by spreading the word—it all makes a difference.
Join in with Southampton Together today and be a part of achieving the remarkable.
Find out about our current fundraising priorities on our giving website and read more about the difference you can make.
You can change the lives of students at Southampton by offering your skills and expertise and volunteering your time to one of our many opportunities.
Hear from students, patients and members of our University community how our generous donors and volunteers are making a real difference  to lives
To keep updated on all the latest Southampton Together developments and opportunities, make sure to follow us on social media.