# Site: https://www.st-andrews.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 479
# --------

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk:
Search through all the courses we offer.
The University of St Andrews will not be participating in clearing this year.
If you are considering undergraduate study at the University, please register your interest for 2026 entry.
St Andrews is Scottish University of the Year and best in the UK for Student Experience in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 .
We're top in Scotland and second in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025 .
Join our postgraduate community and access world-leading research facilities and cutting-edge resources.
Our taught Masters degrees and flexible online courses allow you to achieve your potential and advance your career.
Explore Masters study
Online Masters
Master your ambition.
Where academic heritage meets global impact.
Where your future starts.
[Music]
>> Professor Kishan Dholakia, School of Physics and Astronomy: By having a very strong research active University that competes with the best internationally, we can teach our postgraduate community how to evolve as researchers, how to work with our peer groups, in a way that wouldn't happen were we have to focus solely on teaching.
>> Ethan, PhD Philosophy: The research interests of the academic staff was the most important thing when deciding to come here.
>> Webster, PhD Divinity: I find being in this place academically challenging, stimulating, and the community is captivating.
>> Julia, MLitt Museum and Gallery Studies: As a student, St Andrews is a world of it’s own.
I just think it is the most brilliant and other-worldly place you could ever have.
>> Webster, PhD Divinity: To be a student in St Andrews is the ultimate of student experience in higher education.
>> Professor Judith Wolfe, School of Divnity: St Andrews is a very special University because it is so small and intimate, and yet punches so far above its weight, in terms of research, in terms of the caliber of students that we get, and in terms of community.
>> Fiona, PhD Medicine: The postgraduate community in St Andrews is quite a close-knit one.
>> Hoi Chun, MLitt Marketing: Very warm and welcoming.
Really easy to get to know them just because you are in a small town.
You get that sense of belonging.
>> Dr Dharani Balasubramaniam, School of Computer Science: St Andrews is a research intensive University.
Most of the teaching staff are research active.
So their interests feed into teaching.
>> The research really is the life blood of the University.
>> Nicole, MLitt Terrorism and Political Violence: The professors are always putting out new pieces of research.
They really are pioneers in the field.
>> Julie Brooks, School of Management: We’re very lucky at St Andrews.
We have really the best of the best applying, and it means we really get a very, very high quality student.
>> Dr James Rae, School of Earth and Environmental Sciences: We want people who are curious, who are motivated, who want to understand the world around them.
>> Dr Charles Warren, School of Geography and Sustainable Development: People who are willing to be challenged, and also to challenge, and people beyond their studies, people who are keen to contribute to the wider life of the University.
>> Gabrielle, MSc Marine Mammal Science: I’ve learned a lot of things and I’ve made so many contacts.
It’s been the best experience of my entire life.
I've loved every second of it.
>> One of the things that is really important is that we are a community of scholars.
The staff and the students.
>> Hannah, MLitt Museum and Gallery Studies: Life at St Andrews is wonderful.
I think it’s completely unique.
There’s so much to do, you cannot be bored.
>> Morag, PhD Modern History: I have so many ideas about what I’m going to do when I graduate.
I’ve had loads of opportunities and I’ve met so many new people.
>> St Andrews has an excellent track record of seeing their postgraduates move on to illustrious careers in all walks of life.
>> Students make a lot of contacts during their studies, and that can lead to career opportunities once they graduate.
>> Professor Frank Lorenz Muller, Dean of Arts and Divinity: We have everything from lawyers, to diplomats, to journalists.
They come with this great mark of quality on to a market that wants to take them into either professional or academic life afterwards.
>> When I was studying biology I read a book written by one of the professors here.
Getting to have classes and meet him was, like, amazing for me!
>> Kara, MLitt Terrorism and Political Violence: It was really a non-brainer when I went to look for my masters degree.
I really wanted the international community that St Andrews offers, as well as their international reputation.
>> Before studying at St Andrews I have always lived in a big city.
Moving to St Andrews was definitely a change of scenery.
It didn’t take me too long to get used to it and it was lovely.
It just makes me feel like I’m home.
>> I have loved every second of being in St Andrews and I recommend it to everyone I meet now.
It is welcoming, and diverse, and you get so many different people, and new ideas, and experiences that you would never have anywhere else.
US golfer and sports presenter, Judy Rankin, was awarded a Doctor of Laws (LLD) at the first summer graduation ceremony of 2025.
The University has applied for full planning consent to renovate the former Madras College school building in South Street and construct new buildings.
Research into 20th-century policies affecting Gypsy/Traveller communities across Scotland reveals clear evidence of institutional discrimination.
The University of St Andrews community hosts a vibrant mix of events, from academic lectures and research conferences to concerts, exhibitions and cultural festivals.
Whether engaging in discussions, celebrating traditions or enjoying live performances, there’s always something to experience.
Upcoming events
The University has achieved an AdvanceHE Race Equality Charter (REC) Bronze Award in recognition of its work to improve the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic people at St Andrews.
University of St Andrews College Gate St Andrews KY16 9AJ
+44 (0)1334 47 6161
© 2025 The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No: SC013532

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students:
The University empowers students to take an active role in managing their student experience through a wide range of support services they can access to help them achieve academic success and personal fulfillment.
Keep up with all of the latest notifications from the University community.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff:
A place to share news and features, with a focus on people and their achievements, as well as interesting stories from across campus.
Data Warehouse consolidates data from multiple systems for use by students, staff, and applications, with access granted on a need-to-know basis and changes managed by data owners and stewards.
Access the HR self service dashboard to manage your personal information, view pay and bank details, manage absences.
Quick link to your Microsoft 365 dashboard.
The Module Management System (MMS) is an online component which assists in the managing and administrating of modules, and to ensure compliance with various Institutional and Governmental regulations.
Moodle is a part of your digital learning environment.
Moodle gives you access to the materials for your modules and other training courses.
MySaint is your gateway to web based services within the University of St Andrews.
From one convenient location, MySaint gives you access to the services and information that is relevant to you.
QlikView is a business intelligence tool that enables users to create interactive dashboards and visualisations for quick, in-memory data analysis and decision-making.
See key dates for the current academic year.
This section applies to all staff who require to undertake business travel or fieldwork.
University staff networks provide supportive spaces for colleagues who share circumstances or characteristics to come together, share experiences and socialise.
Through these networks, members of staff also make a valuable contribution to making St Andrews " a beacon of inclusivity " by helping to inform the development of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) policies and strategies, and by raising awareness of key concerns and issues.
Staff networks
>> Hi, I'm Paulette Nhlapo, Head of EDI at the University of St Andrews.
The University is committed to making St Andrews a beacon of inclusivity, and places diversity and equality at the centre of everything we do in our efforts to create an environment in which all can flourish.
Our staff networks provide supportive spaces for colleagues who share particular circumstances to come together, share experiences and socialise.
Staff networks also make a valuable contribution to the creation of an inclusive environment by helping inform the development of EDI policies and strategies, and by raising awareness of key concerns and issues.
We therefore encourage you to consider joining a network appropriate to you and your experiences.
Should you have any questions, please reach out to each of our networks directly.
>> I'm Akira O'Connor.
I'm a senior lecturer in psychology and neuroscience and also the Race Equality Charter Chair at the University.
We don't have formal positions within the Staff BAME network, but I'm a regular attendee.
I think I started coming to the network meetings maybe eight years ago.
We spoke about whatever was on our minds and found solidarity with each other.
It was the first time I'd spoken honestly about what it was like to navigate St Andrews as a person of colour, and it was so liberating to know that there were other people at the institution who were carrying similar experiences around with them.
It's also a bit of an awakening, finding the group.
I realised that I didn't need to shut off the non-white part of me in order to work here, that it was possible to celebrate my experience of being a person of colour at St Andrews, and to find solidarity with other people as I did this.
It was magic.
I think it's really important that we use this group as a space where we build each other up again, celebrate ourselves and our experiences, and protect each other from some of the things that get thrown our way, too.
It's called the BAME Network, which stands for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic.
I know there are issues with this terminology, so I think it's important to say that it's open to anyone who identifies as being from a background that would be considered an ethnic minority in the UK.
Joining the network was the best thing that happened to me in my first ten years at St Andrews.
I met people from across the University, I got put in touch with people who have helped me in various aspects of my professional and personal life, and had a meeting to look forward to every few weeks.
If you'd like to be a part of the Staff BAME Network, come along to a meeting.
We'd love to see you there.
>> MADDY: My name is Maddy Haywood.
I work in the administrative and communications division of the International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute, and I'm one of the co-chairs of the Staff with Disabilities or Neurodiversity Network.
>> REBECCA: And I'm Rebecca Smith.
I am an education focused lecturer in physical chemistry and one of the other co-chairs of this network.
I joined the network to develop a support mechanism with other staff who are presented with similar challenges, so that I can work within an inclusive environment rather than being disabled by my environment.
>> MADDY: I wanted to find a community that would be easy to talk to about the difficulties of being a full-time employee and autistic.
The Staff with Disabilities or Neurodiversity Network provides a safe and supportive space to meet, share experiences, opinions and concerns, and take action to promote equality for staff with disabilities.
We also like to raise awareness and understanding to help create a more open, supportive and inclusive culture across the University for staff with disabilities.
>> REBECCA: Our network includes staff with disabilities, including physical differences like mobility issues and limb loss, hidden or invisible differences including neurodiversity such as ADHD, autism, dyslexia and dyspraxia, learning disabilities, sensory differences or loss, hearing loss or deaf, and mental health and chronic illness conditions, whether or not you use the word disability to describe your differences.
>> MADDY: The network is a really lovely and supportive group of people.
From my own experience and talking with some others, I find that there is such imposter syndrome about joining the staff networks, so my encouragement would be, if you think you fit the description in any way, please come along.
>> Hi, my name is Kathryn Herschell.
My pronouns are they or she and I'm an interim coordinator of the LGBTQI+ Employee Network along with my colleague, Avery Hawkins.
I'm queer, disabled and neurodivergent and I've been working at the University for a little over three years as part of the EDI team.
The network is a welcoming community, and we're open to any member of staff who identifies with any part of the LGBTQI+ acronym.
You are valid and you are very welcome.
We're very much guided by what the membership wants the network to be.
There's an active Teams group and we have in-person meetups after work in a local café for socialising.
We also have a film club where members share recommendations and opinions, and a book club where we pick a book with queer characters and or themes to read and discuss together.
I and the rest of the network look forward to welcoming any and all new members.
>> My name is Tim Childs.
I work in the Technology Enhanced Learning Department of the International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute.
I am also one of the co-chairs of the Parents and Carers Network.
Since working for the University, I've had two children and I decided that joining the network would be useful for learning about the support available to parents.
One of the main objectives of our network is to provide representation at institution level on issues impacting the lives of parents and carers, both inside and outside the workplace.
The network also provides a community hub for members to share knowledge, experiences and resources.
The network welcomes all staff who are carers or parents, or about to become parents, or anyone considering parenthood.
I encourage parents and carers to join the network to gain access to a community of people who are at all stages of life in respect to both caring and parental responsibilities, and benefit from a wealth of knowledge and experience.
The more people we have in the network, the better our resources will become, and we can support even more staff to navigate working whilst being a carer, parent or both.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study:
Located in a coastal town where the medieval meets the cosmopolitan, St Andrews provides a truly diverse and vibrant student community with a global outlook.
Search through all the courses we offer
Develop your professional skills with our self-paced online short courses delivered by world-leading academics.
Explore courses
Admissions University of St Andrews St Katharine's West The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AX
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2150

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects:
Discover personalised online education from St Andrews.
Our tailored online courses are designed to allow you to achieve your potential, to expand your knowledge and skills, and advance your career.
Learn at a pace and in a way that suits you, wherever you are.
Find out about our academic English courses.
The International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute (IELLI) provides four pre-sessional courses in academic English for students who use English as an additional language and who have an offer to study at St Andrews, as well as Academic English Qualification courses for non-offer holders.
Download our prospectus to explore our diverse programmes.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research:
St Andrews brings together researchers from around the globe to explore and challenge the world around us.
From local to international topics, our research spans from ancient history to modern scientific breakthroughs.
Discover research at St Andrews
The University of St Andrews is one of the UK’s most research-intensive universities.
With its world-class facilities, it produces global-reaching research.
If you would like to work with us at St Andrews, we offer a range of routes into joining the University through research, study and collaboration.
Research and Innovation Services Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Phone: +44 (0)1334 47 7220 Email: ris@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development:
Building on an ancient tradition of mutual support.
Support the University's fundraising goals to enable us to maintain our status as a world-leading, diverse, digital, sustainable and entrepreneurial centre for teaching, learning and research.
Learn about some of the exciting developments your gifts have already made possible.
Making Waves: The Campaign for St Andrews aims to raise £300 million.
Great things are achieved at St Andrews thanks to the power of collective giving.
Keep in touch, reconnect and access unique benefits for St Andrews graduates.
The monthly e-newsletter that keeps our alumni, parents, donors and friends in the loop about news, information and events.
Stay connected with St Andrews via our alumni social media channels: Facebook, X, Instagram and LinkedIn.
Our families are part of the St Andrews community too.
Join the programme to keep up to date with developments at the University.
Development Crawford Building 91 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AJ
Email: alumni@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 467194

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us:
We are here to help you discover St Andrews and support you throughout the application process.
Many of our events are still run online, which allows you to access a much greater range of topics, and there are also options available for you to visit the town and University.
If you have any questions or are not sure the best event to attend, you can email us directly at admissions.events@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Find out more about options available for a walking tour and information session with Admissions.
Join us for one of our information events where you can find out about different levels of study and specific courses we run.
There are also sessions available for parents and college counsellors.
Our staff regularly travel overseas and are often available for meetings with prospective students, teachers or advisers.
Travel dates are updated here and you can get in contact to make an appointment.
Meet us in a virtual information session, book a one-on-one consultation with Admissions or join a visiting day to find out more about postgraduate study.
Our Admissions team can provide college counsellors and advisers with answers to any questions you may have about the University of St Andrews and our admissions process.
If you are interested in learning what it's like to be a student at St Andrews, you can speak to one of our student ambassadors.
They'll let you know about their top tips, best study spots, favourite traditions and more.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about:
St Andrews is a unique and captivating place, and the University is a key part of its charm.
Seven centuries of history link the students with the town, leading to the ancient and yet modern institution apparent today.
For those interested in visiting or moving to St Andrews, we recommend taking a look at the town information, which describes the facilities and opportunities open to the local community.
You can also find information about the University’s governance, history, and strategy for the future in the sections below.
The University of St Andrews is comprised of a number of academic Schools and Departments, which are organised into four Faculties.
The Annual Review 2024 provides a snapshot of our progress over the last year.
The University offers a number of services to external organisations, businesses and the general public.
Discover why St Andrews is the perfect place to study, live or visit.
The University of St Andrews is committed to promoting a culture of inclusivity and to equality of opportunity for all of its staff and students.
An at-a-glance introduction to the University of St Andrews.
The University has a number of bodies that collectively govern the institution.
Formed between 1410 and 1413, the University has a 600-year history to build on.
Find locations of University buildings and services
Find who is responsible for a specific task from the University's professional service units.
We are building a sustainable legacy for the students of today and the future.
Information about getting to and around St Andrews, as well as accommodation options.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/contact:
The University's hours of operation are Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5pm.
If you call out of hours, you will be transferred to a security officer who will take your details.
An appropriate member of staff will then call you back to offer further assistance.
In the case of an emergency, call 999 (or 9-999 from a University phone) to contact emergency services.
If you are concerned about the wellbeing of a student or non-life-threatening issues, call +44 (0)1334 46 2720 to contact Student Services.
Please be aware of the University's confidentiality code regarding student privacy.
For non-emergencies regarding buildings and estates on University property, call +44 (0)1334 46 3999 to contact Estates maintenance and repairs.
Current staff and students can search the staff directory for contact details of all current staff members at the University.
A list of all School and Department contact information, for easy access to specific offices and personnel at the University.
Search who is responsible for specific professional services and tasks at the University.
Find locations of schools, departments, and other resources.
Report and support is an anonymous online tool for reporting bullying, abuse, harassment, assault, discrimination, and wellbeing concerns at the University.
The IT service desk is the main point of contact for all computer, internet and other technical issues.
Residents and visitors can find further information about student conduct, including how to report misconduct.
If you have lost something while in University buildings or grounds, register it as lost and contact the lost and found property offices.
List of all social media channels and pages affiliated with the University of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/register:
Register your details with us and we will send you more information about programmes at the University of St Andrews.
The information collected in this form will be held and used only in the ways outlined in the .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Underpinned by centuries of traditions and elevated by world-leading research facilities, St Andrews is more than just a university.
Home to around 1,000 postgraduate taught students, a one-year Masters from St Andrews will allow you to:
As a postgraduate student you will have access to cutting-edge resources, and benefit from a number of opportunities to grow yourself academically and personally, all whilst building solid foundations for your future career.
Find a course Ask Admissions
Where you live is a big part of your university experience.
Explore some of the options available to postgraduate students.
Benefit from dedicated skills workshops, networking opportunities, and expert advice to support you in reaching your goals after graduation.
Learn across subject boundaries for a more rounded view, and enhance your academic and personal skills.
Home to postgraduates within the University, St Leonard’s College is designed to foster a vibrant and intellectually stimulating postgraduate community.
Postgraduate students automatically become members of the College and can benefit from exclusive facilities within the Old Burgh School and Martyrs Kirk Library.
Explore St Leonard's College
Find out more about the scholarships and funding support that might be available.
Ready for your next step?
Find out what you need to do to make an application.
Ask questions, explore postgraduate study, and find out more about life in St Andrews at one of our next events.
Advance your knowledge and contribute to your chosen field of study.
Complete a PhD in three to four years, or focus on a research-led Masters degree and start with your own research from day one.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/online:
Book an information session Register your interest
Develop your academic skills and take your career forward.
Wherever you are, you can take St Andrews with you.
Discover the benefits of studying with us, from the moment you start your course, to long after you graduate.
Foster your talents and discover interests that you never knew you had.
Browse postgraduate online courses
From professional development to lifelong learning, our online short courses are designed to hone your skills and knowledge.
Upskill and stay inspired with self-paced, fully online courses that are designed to work with your schedule.
Browse online short courses
Meet our staff online to learn more and ask questions about how our courses can work for you or send your questions to the Admissions team.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/online/short-courses:
Register your interest
Email : standrewsonline@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding:
Your tuition fees will depend on your course of study and your home domicile if you are an undergraduate student, or your chosen programme if you are a postgraduate student.
You will also need to consider the costs of living, such as accommodation, food and travel.
There are a number of scholarships and support packages available at all levels of study, and the University can provide financial assistance and advice where necessary.
A video guide has been created to help you with your scholarship application and also includes details on creating your funding financial profile.
The University of St Andrews offers a number of scholarships and support packages to undergraduate students each year, and there may also be other funding options available.
Discover specific information on the various fees for which you may be liable as a postgraduate student at the University of St Andrews, including tuition fees, as well as the various funding options that may be available to you.
Fees and Funding Walter Bower House Eden Campus Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Email: fees@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships:
St Andrews is committed to attracting the very best students, regardless of financial circumstances.
Scholarships reward academic excellence and are designed to provide assistance to help students support themselves during their time at university.
Applicants with refugee status, humanitarian protection, discretionary leave and asylum seeker status are encouraged to apply for financial support scholarships.
Your tuition fee status will determine which scholarships are available to you.
The scholarships and funding catalogue offers a searchable directory of funding options offered by the University and, in some cases, external partners towards fees, living expenses, travel and maintenance, as well as projects and initiatives.
View all our scholarships
If you are a new applicant to the University of St Andrews, you need to apply for your chosen course(s) before accessing the scholarships and funding catalogue.
After you have applied, you will receive an email with instructions on how to access the catalogue.
If you are a current student at St Andrews, you can access scholarships and funding through MySaint , located under ‘My Applications’.
Email: ugscholarships@st-andrews.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4351
Email: pgscholarships@st-andrews.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2365
Ask a question
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2020

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation:
St Andrews has more than 4,000 bed spaces and a variety of accommodation to suit various tastes and budgets.
Undergraduate and Foundation students looking to stay in halls of residence can select their preferences.
Review these accommodation packages and prices, and apply.
Postgraduate students can select a preferred hall of residence.
Review halls that are postgraduate only and those shared with undergraduates, and apply.
Students can choose to live in halls of residence or University managed houses and flats , or rent privately .
The University owned and managed accommodation is available for Undergraduate and Foundation students, and Postgraduates students.
Accommodation is guaranteed for entrant undergraduate students, care experienced and estranged students.
We also offer a limited number of guaranteed rooms for postgraduate students and flexible contracts for those studying abroad for a semester.
University managed accommodation offers a number of options and includes a range of benefits, such as:
Students can choose to live in University managed houses and apartments or rent privately in St Andrews and the surrounding area.
Student Accommodation Services Walter Bower House Eden Campus Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Email: accommodation@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2510

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
Every year, we receive thousands of undergraduate applications from students who wish to study at the University of St Andrews.
Our focus is on finding the students who will challenge ideas, make innovative findings, use their leadership talents in new areas, and take advantage of the breadth as well as the flexibility of the University’s offerings.
Find out which application process is most appropriate for you below.
All applicants should note that the maximum number of applications permitted to UK universities in one year is five.
Whether you are applying to St Andrews through UCAS, the Common Application or Direct Application, see our guidance on what we look for in a personal statement and how to approach writing this.
Most applicants for first-year entry will apply to other universities as well as to the University of St Andrews through a single online Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) application.
Overseas students may apply through the Common Application, and your application to us will be counted as one of your five UK choices.
Overseas students may apply through the direct application, and your application to us will be counted as one of your five UK choices.
A small number of students each year are offered the opportunity to join the University of St Andrews from another university.
Some students who wish to enter the Faculty of Science have the opportunity to proceed directly into the second year of their course.
For applicants not looking to undertake full-time study, we offer part-time study in both during the day and in the evening.
If you are interested in information about how we decide to offer places, or when you are likely to receive a response to your application, take a look at our 'after you apply' page.
We offer places to the students who meet our academic requirements and are deemed to have the most potential to benefit from their course and contribute to academic life at the University.
Your grades – both already gained and predicted – are the first area of consideration, and you should be aware of the entry requirements before you apply.
You can find information about any specific subject pre-requisites on the individual course pages .
For more information, please refer to academic entry explained .
Specially trained staff at the University will review your application and consider the following areas:
We expect that you will apply to the University in the academic year immediately before you intend to start your studies.
For example, if you plan to take a gap year before starting university, we recommend you apply during the gap year.
If you have taken a gap year, ensure you clearly outline the motivation behind it and any experiences and skills gained from the gap year that are relevant to your chosen subject(s).
You can find out more in our Admissions policy .
If you chose to apply for deferred entry for the subsequent academic year, please make sure you reference your plans in your personal statement.
You should provide us with a full picture of why you wish to defer, what you will be doing during this time, and how these activities will strengthen your application to your chosen subject(s).
If you are at school or college, your Head of Year, University Counsellor or another teacher will generally write your reference.
If you are on a gap year after achieving your school-leaving qualifications, the reference should also be provided by your school or college.
If you are not at school or college and unable to provide a reference from a former teacher, you will need to supply a reference from a responsible person who knows you well enough to write about you and your academic capabilities.
Avoid using references from family members or close friends as they are not normally acceptable.
You must provide a reference in support of your application.
Any applications submitted without a reference are incomplete.
Most students who apply to the University will not be required to attend an interview.
The exceptions to this will be if you are applying for:
We aim to let you know the decision on your application as quickly as possible, but we will take the time required to review each application carefully and in full, in line with all the care and attention you have put into your application to us.
Students who apply by the relevant equal consideration deadline will receive a decision on their applications by the month of May in the academic year they apply.
All applicants can track their applications through their applicant portal , and UCAS applicants can also track the progress of their application through UCAS Hub.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply:
The University of St Andrews has different application routes for postgraduate students depending on the course you are applying for.
Applicants for MSc, MLitt, MRes, Conversion Diploma, and Postgraduate Certificate programmes should apply online using the applications and guidance for taught programmes.
Applicants for MPhil, PhD, MSc(Res), MSt(Res), EngD, MFA and MRes Medicine programmes should apply online using the applications and guidance for research programmes.
Find out how we offer places or when you are likely to receive a response to your application.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library:
Search the library's print and online resources.
The Walter Bower House Library will be closed from midday today, Wednesday 27 August, due an electrical issue.
We expect to be open as usual from 9am tomorrow morning.
Apologies for the inconvenience.
You can contact us with any questions via email library@st-andrews.ac.uk
Work is already under way on reading lists for 2025/6.
Further information for academic staff can be found on our Reading lists guide.
Training sessions will run throughout the summer for staff who wish to create or edit their own lists.
If you have any questions about the new system then please contact us at readinglists@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates:
St Andrews has two semesters each year:
These pages include additional key dates for postgraduate taught (PGT) students.
Key dates and deadlines for students can be accessed by applicants.
Christmas vacation starts on Tuesday 23 December 2025.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/jobs:
Recognised as one of the top universities in the UK and globally, the University of St Andrews is renowned for its high quality research and teaching and exceptional student experience.
As an employer, we are dedicated to attracting and retaining the best talent by providing a supportive and dynamic work environment.
We believe in the power of collaboration, uniting academic and professional services teams as one community to create an exceptional atmosphere for learning and research.
Our commitment to our staff is outlined in our People Strategy , where we aim to provide a high-quality staff experience which enables all our staff to contribute, thrive and perform at their best.
We value equality.
diversity and inclusion and have set ourselves an ambitious vision to make St Andrews a beacon of inclusivity, placing diversity and equality at the centre of everything we do and creating an environment in which all can flourish and realise their potential.
Vacancies
Our people are at the heart of everything we do.
Whether you're starting your career, advancing in your field, looking for opportunities in research, teaching or professional services, we offer a range of jobs and career opportunities.
Why join us
Great universities constantly move forward.
They anticipate, lead, adapt, and are society’s engines of innovation and change.
Momentum is everything.
When St Andrews flourishes, it does so because it combines a commitment to academic excellence with an inherent dynamism which moulds us to the challenges and opportunities of the age.
Read the University strategy
"Our remarkable students and staff are the lifeblood of St Andrews.
It is their energy, vision and momentum that our 2022–2027 University Strategy aims to support, to free them to use knowledge, ideas, and potential for the benefit of all."
Work with us.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/policy:
This repository provides access to the University's centralised documents, including strategies, polices, procedures and guidance.
You can search for a particular document below or browse and filter the document repository .
Documents related to the University’s taught programmes, including assessment, curriculum development, good academic practice, timetabling and more.
High-level strategic planning governance, including the University Strategy, School and service unit plans.
Estate policies and procedures governing the University’s environment management, facilities, safety and security, and space planning.
Documents relating to University relationships with key stakeholders such as alumni, the public, donors and other relevant parties.
The provision through which the extra-curricular services are delivered and managed, such as careers.
Financial resources policies and procedures, including asset management, charitable donations, expenses and claims, budget management and more.
The measures and controls through which the University aims to provide a safe environment.
The measures and controls to provide individuals with their rights over personal data and access to information and management of University records.
Standards for establishing, monitoring and maintaining information technology, such as website development and network connection.
Regulations and policies for using the University’s library and museum resources, along with the Library’s strategy, vision, and management.
Procurement policies and procedures including tendering for a supplier and purchasing goods or services from external parties.
Academic research policies and guidance around conduct and ethics, quality assurance of research, promoting research outputs in useable forms, and more.
Policies and guidance on Covid-19 and safe return from lockdown.
Staff management policies including performance and progression, equality and diversity, health and wellbeing, pay and benefits, recruitment, and more.
Policies and procedures relating to student contracts, admissions, fees and finance, matriculation and discipline.
Documents related to a welfare and support service for all matriculated students, including emotional support, mental health and visa advice.
Mechanisms by which the University will be directed and controlled, including the structures of the Court and Senate along with other oversight operations.
Phone: +44 (0)1334 47 6161

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/schools:
The University of St Andrews is comprised of a number of Academic Schools and Departments, which are organised into four Faculties.
Each School is led by a Head of School, and supported by a number of academic and professional staff.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/alumni:
The day you become a St Andrews graduate you begin a new connection with us.
As a member of the University's worldwide alumni community, you will always be part of St Andrews, and St Andrews will always be here for you.
Benefits and support Update your details
Discover stories from alumni, students, donors and more.
The Kaleidoscope Alumni Network (KAN) celebrates the ethnic and cultural diversity of St Andrews graduates around the world.
Browse our Alumni Profiles to learn more about career paths and journeys post-graduation.
Take advantage of the range of alumni benefits and support on offer.
Stay connected with St Andrews by joining our Saint Connect platform and attending events around the world, both in-person and online.
The monthly newsletter that keeps all our alumni, parents, donors and friends in the loop about current news, information and events.
Help St Andrews and your fellow alumni to keep in touch with you.
The General Council of the University of St Andrews comprises all graduates and senior academics.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/community:
There is a close integration between the University and the town of St Andrews.
There is no University campus, instead, University buildings are located throughout the town.
Visitors, local residents and University staff and students all benefit from the town’s facilities, from playing fields through to cafés and services of worship.
Whether you’re planning on staying in St Andrews for just a few days, for the course of your studies or as a permanent base, you can find out what to expect from the town here.
Facilities available to local residents, including the Sports Centre, libraries and theatre.
The Students’ Association is also known as the Union, and offers a range of facilities for students and the town.
Find out about the University chapels and services of worship that all are welcome to attend.
The University welcomes students, staff, alumni and the general public who wish to marry in University venues.
The University has three museums with a range of exhibitions and activities to explore and enjoy.
Find out where you can grab a coffee or a bite to eat at one of the University’s cafes.
The University shop sells a range of St Andrews branded clothing, memorabilia and gifts.
Student Services staff are available to guide students and liaise with the local community on a range of matters.
The University Community Fund provides financial support for local needs to deliver tangible benefits for the wider community.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-services:
The University offers services to external organisations, businesses and the general public.
If you would like to work with the University, please contact the appropriate department below.
The Careers Centre works with employers to build relationships with St Andrews students.
Work with Lean to drive change and improve efficiency within your institution or business.
Find out about holding or attending a conference in St Andrews.
Create a large range of high quality printed materials by working with the print and design team.
St Andrews Innovation connects industry with students and staff.
They support research collaborations, commercial licensing and University spin-outs and start-ups, creating a thriving entrepreneurial ecosystem.
The University can design a tailor-made educational course to match the needs of your organisation.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/visiting:
With many things to see and do, St Andrews is a wonderful place to visit, whether you’re a prospective student on a visiting day or a member of the public enjoying a holiday.
Within this section of the website, you will find information on travelling to St Andrews, options for places to stay once you arrive and directions on reaching University buildings and other popular landmarks in the town.
Visitors to St Andrews may also be interested in the facilities open to the local community and general public, which can be found in the living in St Andrews web pages .
If you are visiting the University from a partner institution, you can also visit the global partnerships and study abroad visiting page.
Find travel information about getting to St Andrews by air, rail or road.
Maps of the town, University buildings and other key locations and venues.
Information about places to stay in St Andrews during both term time and the holidays.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/digital-standards/accessibility/accessibility-statement:
This statement applies to content published on the www.st-andrews.ac.uk domain, run by the University of St Andrews.
It does not apply to content on st-andrews.ac.uk subdomains (for example, mms.st-andrews.ac.uk).
Where a website or web application has additional accessibility statements, these will be linked from those individual locations.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
You can also explore some of our recommendations for tools that can make your online experience better .
We are currently redeveloping sections of the University’s website to improve accessibility and usability.
Some areas of inaccessibility include:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We will get back to you as soon as possible.
If you can’t view the University map , please contact us for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact IT Service Desk:
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
We have induction loops in main lecture venues, and we have portable loops that may be set up if requested in advance.
We also have a Roger pen to assist visitors who use hearing aids.
We can provide a text relay service for people who are Deaf, deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment who are contacting us by phone.
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact us via the online BSL Video Relay Interpreting service from Contact Scotland BSL .
We will also endeavour to arrange a BSL interpreter for visiting individuals that need that support, but this should be requested in advance as availability is limited.
Find out how to contact the University .
The University of St Andrews is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1 AA standard due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The University has a wide range of websites and web applications located on the www.st-andrews.ac.uk domain that have grown organically over many years and sit alongside the ‘main’ University website.
Many of these are now very old or are not regularly maintained and do not fully meet the accessibility regulations.
Currently, the University of St Andrews ‘main’ website is intended for both external and internal audiences and is managed by Terminalfour (T4).
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
T4 is used to manage and publish content.
A sample of these pages are regularly checked, but there may be periods of time where inaccessible content is published.
There may be images may not have an appropriate text alternative.
When these are discovered, we review and correct.
Most of the videos on the University website are hosted on YouTube; some of these may be incorrectly captioned and may not include audio description.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterions 1.2.2 Captions (Pre-recorded) and 1.2.5 Audio Description (Pre-recorded).
We do not plan to add captions or transcripts to all pre-recorded audio and video media as this is exempt if published before 23 September 2020, but we will add these to selected media when possible.
Any media published after this date will include captions.
Many of our existing PDFs and other documents do not meet accessibility standards – for example, they may not be accessible to screen reader software.
We are in the process of removing unnecessary PDFs and in other cases replacing PDFs with HTML pages where possible.
See guidelines on the correct use of PDFs .
There may be some areas of the University website and its associated web applications which cannot be navigated by only using a keyboard (Success criterion 2.1.1 Keyboard – level ‘A’).
We will improve navigation by June 2024.
There may be some areas of the website that do not resize with the browser and require scrolling in both directions when zoomed (Success criterion 1.4.10 – Reflow).
We aim to fix all sites with this issue by December 2024.
There are forms and interactive elements that do not meet multiple AA success criteria.
Some of these may be provided by third-parties.
We aim to improve forms and interactive elements by June 2024, including, but not limited to:
Some elements may not always display effective focus indication when interacting with elements (Success criterion 2.4.7 Focus visible).
This issue relates to older style pages.
We aim to correct this issue by June 2024.
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
We do not plan to add captions or transcripts to all pre-recorded audio and video media as this is exempt if published before 23 September 2020.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Online maps are included in a number of web pages.
Where there is a map with one single point of interest, the information being displayed is provided in an alternative format on the same web page.
Where there is more than one point of interest on the map, we are working towards an accessible solution.
The University is committed to improving accessibility through:
This statement was prepared on 4 September 2020.
It was last reviewed on 29 June 2023.
Our website is tested on a regular basis, with a new scan scheduled every five days using an automated accessibility tool provided by Siteimprove.
This tool tests a sample of web pages and provides a report on accessibility issues.
Manual checks are also performed as part of the monthly editorial calendar on a sample of pages on the ‘main’ University website.
Issues are prioritised according to the severity of the impact it may cause, the number of people that may be impacted and the time involved in resolving the issue.
Digital Communications team University of St Andrews D17 Bute building Queen's Terrace St Andrews KY16 9TS
Email: itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/terms:
By accessing this website you accept and agree to the following terms and conditions.
The University of St Andrews is situated in Fife, Scotland, in the United Kingdom.
The term 'the University of St Andrews' or 'the University' shall include, without limitation, its faculties, Schools, research centres and administrative units.
' University network ' means any resources which are used for the transmission or reception (either wholly or in part) of any data (including voice, email, video, web content or any other types or formats of data), which are owned or operated by or on behalf of the University.
' University services ' means any and all services provided by the University or on its behalf for use by its community and members by means of, or relating to the use of, access to or interaction with, the University network.
This includes the provision of any applications, information, services or facilities (either accessed directly or indirectly via the University network), email, web applications, computing facilities (including but not limited to workstations, access services for personal systems such as dial up, VPN, wireless, etc.).
By their nature, websites are subject to constant change.
While all reasonable efforts are made to ensure that the content of the University's website is accurate and up to date, all content, services and materials are provided "as is" and the University reserves the right to amend, add to or remove these at any time without notice.
Nothing on this website constitutes any part of a contract unless otherwise expressly stated.
The University makes no warranty about the content of this website, including (but not limited to) the accuracy or completeness of any content.
The University permits its students and staff to maintain personal pages on the website.
Any views expressed on these pages do not necessarily represent the views of the University.
The University may alter these terms and conditions from time to time and post the new versions on this website, following which all use of this website will be governed by that new version.
Some areas of the website, University network and University services are available only to University staff, students, alumni or other authorised University users.
The use of this website is subject to the University's computer and IT support.
While the University tries to make these services (including the website) available 24 hours a day, it reserves the right to suspend or withdraw access, without notice, to either the whole or part of these services, for any reason.
If you choose, or you are provided with, a user identification code, password or any other piece of information as part of our security procedures, then you must treat such information as confidential, and you must not disclose it to any third party.
For more information about your computer account see the computer and IT support web pages (staff and students).
The University is committed to making its website as accessible and usable as possible, irrespective of the browser or platform used.
Our central website has been designed to conform to Section 508 and W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) standards.
See the University's accessibility statement.
The University of St Andrews recognises that there may be occasions when a student or member of the public feels that the level of service or treatment that they have received from the University has fallen short of what might reasonably be expected.
The University has developed and implemented a complaints procedure that is compliant with the Scottish Higher Education Model Complaints Handling Procedure , published by the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman (SPSO).
See the University's complaints handling procedure .
Please see the cookie notice .
Unless stated otherwise, the copyright and other intellectual property rights in all text, images and other material on this website are owned by the University of St Andrews or its licensors and may not be reproduced without prior written permission.
See also the copyright overview .
The University of St Andrews recognises that personal privacy is an important issue, and we support the protection of internet privacy as required by UK legislation.
Find out more about privacy and data protection at St Andrews .
Any links to external websites provided by this website have been included for convenience only.
The provision by the University of a link to another website does not constitute any authorisation by the University to you to access materials or services held at that location.
The University of St Andrews is not responsible for the content, availability or quality of any material contained on external websites and links to external sites should not be taken as an endorsement by the University of opinions expressed or services offered by those sites.
These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Scotland and any disputes that may arise will be subject to the jurisdiction of the Scottish courts.
You are responsible for compliance with any applicable laws of the country from which you are accessing this website.
If any provision of these terms shall become or be declared illegal, invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be divisible and shall be deemed deleted from these terms.
The University operates this website from St Andrews, Scotland, and makes no representation that the information contained herein is appropriate or available for use in other locations outside the United Kingdom.
You are responsible for compliance with any applicable laws of the country from which you are accessing the website.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the University will not be held liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage arising out of the use, reliance upon content, delay, variation or failure in the provision of information held on these pages.
The University takes all reasonable steps to ensure that the University services and the University network are error and virus free.
Every effort is made to ensure downloadable content is free from viruses.
The University accepts no liability for damages resulting from virus infection.
By downloading or using a University of St Andrews RSS or Atom Feed (the "RSS feed") you agree to be bound by the terms of the following licence (the "licence terms").
The University of St Andrews may amend the licence terms from time to time, and you should therefore review the licence terms each time you download the RSS feed.
By using the RSS feed after such an amendment, you agree to be bound thereafter by the amended licence terms.
Unless stated otherwise, the copyright and other intellectual property rights in all text, images and other material within an RSS feed are owned by the University of St Andrews or its licensors and may not be reproduced without prior written permission.
See also pages on copyright .
While all reasonable efforts are made to ensure that the content of the University's RSS feeds are accurate and up to date, all content, services and materials are provided "as is" and the University reserves the right to amend, add to or remove these at any time.
While the University tries to make RSS feeds available 24 hours a day, it reserves the right to rename, suspend or withdraw access, without notice, to either the whole or part of these services, for any reason.
Subject to these licence terms, the University grants you a free, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable licence to display on your website the headlines, links and other information or materials that you select to receive from the University via the RSS feed ("University content").
Except as expressly set out in these licence terms, you do not gain any ownership rights over the University content or the RSS feed.
You may not use any University crest, logo or trademark on your website without the University's specific and written consent.
Nothing in these licence terms shall be treated as giving any such consent.
The terms set out in the University's website terms and conditions document apply to the RSS feed in addition to these licence terms.
If there is any conflict between the terms and conditions and the licence terms, the licence terms shall prevail.
Nothing in these licence terms shall be treated as an endorsement by the University of the website or any material on or accessible via the website and you must not state or imply anything to the contrary.
You agree that:
You may terminate this licence at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the RSS feed and all University content from your website, hard drives, networks and other storage media.
The University may terminate this licence at any time for any reason without liability to you.
You agree to destroy all copies of the RSS feed and University content upon receiving notice of such termination.
The University of St Andrews crest, logos and trademarks used and displayed on our website are the University's registered and unregistered trademarks, or those of others.
You may not use these trademarks without our prior written consent, or that of the relevant owner.
All text, images and other content on this website is copyright of the University of St Andrews unless explicitly stated otherwise.
You may only download or copy it for the purposes of teaching, administration and research within the University, or for personal, non-commercial use.
You are required to seek written permission from the University for any other use or purpose; please contact the digital communications team at itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk .
You may link to any page on the website.
You are not permitted, however, to frame or page-jack the website (that is, copy keywords, meta tags, content or code from this website and place it on another website causing users or search engines to be redirected to that other site).
You are not permitted to use any robot, spider, other automatic device or manual process to monitor or copy the website or the content expressed herein, other than for search engine indexing.
Such search engines are expected to comply with the robots exclusion protocol as set out in any robots.txt files on the website.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/help:
Use the links on this page to report a problem relating to the University website.
You can also email the IT Service Desk at itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk and ask for the email to be forwarded to the Digital Communications team.
Submit an enquiry
The digital standards webpages provide information about digital best practice along with digital policies, procedures and rules for managing and creating content for the University of St Andrews, and a list of house style rules for use online and in print.
Digital standards webpages
Use this form to request:
Update request form
Sign in with your University credentials to log support calls and view the progress of existing calls under your name in the Self-Service Portal.
Self-Service Portal
Students and staff can use this form to submit video files for upload to the University YouTube channel .
YouTube video submission form
WordPress is a multipurpose content management system used to publish all kinds of websites, from research centre hubs to student society blogs.
It provides a quick way to create a website or blog, and allows users to easily edit posts or pages.
Members of the University of St Andrews community can apply for a WordPress blog site.
Apply for a WordPress site

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/administration:
You are here: University » Administration A-Z
For more detailed information please see current staff , current postgraduates or current students for a list of resources organised by context and function.
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Professional services
Cookie preferences Accessibility statement Terms and conditions Edit
© 2025 The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/university/centres:
The majority of research at the University of St Andrews takes place within academic Schools.
However, the University also supports a large number of world-class, often cross-disciplinary or cross-institutional, research centres or institutes.
Research centres and institutes are both concerned with research collaboration, but institutes also provide undergraduate and postgraduate teaching.
Find out more about the research and associated centres and institutes within each University School and Department.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff-directory/search:
© 2021 The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No: SC013532

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/maps:
Search by keyword, category or explore the map
Search for a location or filter by category to reduce the number of locations shown.
Ã‚Â© 2021 The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education/handbook:
The information on these pages is for all students at the University and should be read alongside your School's handbook.
Processes, procedures and regulations for assessments, exams, and outcome of degree awards.
Advice and support available to all students.
Any concerns not listed, contact your School Wellbeing Officer or Student Services .
This is additional information relevant only for postgraduate research students.
Information on the academic choices that are available to students.
Academic adjustments are available to students who are experiencing circumstances that affect their studies.
The following awards and opportunities are available to students at the University.
University regulations that might be useful in some circumstances.
Information for students who have/require to change their academic study arrangements due to circumstances affecting their studies.
Useful dates and information students can refer to throughout the academic year.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/support:
During your studies at the University of St Andrews there may be times when you need some help and advice.
We encourage all students to develop a sense of personal responsibility for all aspects of their wellbeing.
We promote individuality, open-mindedness, and critical thinking, while respecting the diversity of our community.
To get in touch with Student Services for advice or to book an initial appointment, please complete our short online enquiry form .
If the matter is urgent, please call +44 (0)1334 46 2020 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm) or +44 (0)1334 46 8999 (when our office is closed).
Where to go for help in an emergency, including contact information for incidents happening outside the University’s regular working hours.
We are committed to creating a culture of inclusivity, diversity, equality and safety for students, staff and visitors.
You can report an incident or request advice and support.
Support is available for students with disabilities or long-term health conditions to help them reach their full academic potential during their time in St Andrews.
We provide counselling, wellbeing services, and mental health coordination to help students achieve balance in life.
Our Money advisers give students confidential financial advice, including information on funding for those in exceptional circumstances.
The University Health Hub helps students access up-to-date health information and connects them to the right service in the NHS, the University, or the local community.
Wardens focus on pastoral care and community events to enhance the student experience.
They offer support on evenings and weekends and can help students find the right help.
Students can get support from each other and can discuss student life in St Andrews, academic matters, health and safety, consent, and wellbeing, through various student-led networks.
The University offers wellbeing, academic and careers support, money advice, information on accommodation and commuter resources, for students who are carers or parents.
Find out more about support options in areas like security, health and wellbeing, finance, visas, accommodation and academic adjustments, for students affected by war, conflict and disaster.
If you, or someone you know, has experienced any form of sexual misconduct you can contact Student Services or use any of the resources listed for help and advice.
The University is not liable for external web content and may not be aware when this content is changed or removed.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study-abroad/travel:
Guidance and resources for students and staff travelling on University business.
Travel guidance for students and staff.
Travel registration and risk assessment for students and staff.
Visa information and resources for select countries.
Global Office University of St Andrews 6 St Mary's Place St Andrews KY16 9UY
Email: globaloffice@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2245

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/academic/academic-advising:
You are here: University » Current Students » Academic matters » Academic advising
The Academic Advising process provides you with the advice necessary to make appropriate module choices for your registered programme , to keep your options open for as long as possible, and to address academic problems if they arise.
The main point of contact is your Adviser of studies .
Find us on:
‎ Facebook
‎ Twitter
Professor Shiona Chillas , Associate Dean Students (Arts and Divinity)
Email: assocdeanarts-students@st-andrews.ac.uk
Dr Paul Cruickshank , Associate Dean Students (Science)
Email: assocdeansci-students@st-andrews.ac.uk
Can't find what you are looking for?
Search our FAQs or submit your own question .
Tel: +44 (0)1334 464089
Information for new undergraduates
Academic advising system
Terms and conditions of study
Failure to matriculate policy
Module catalogue
Changing modules or programme

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/academic/matriculation:
You are here: University » Current Students » Academic matters » Matriculation
The matriculation event for 2025-2026 will be held from Monday 8 September 2025 in the Gateway building.
The online matriculation facility is accessed through MySaint .
Registry will send access details to your University email address in August, or January for semester 2 entrants and those returning from leave of absence.
As part of online matriculation, you may need to:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/exams:
The institutional Semester 1 examination timetable will be available on Friday 24 October 2025.
Students should note the following for Semester 1 and Semester 2 examination diets:
Personal timetable Exam preparation
Please ensure you make the University aware of any circumstances affecting your ability to take examinations as soon as possible.
Advice for students sitting online exams.
Advice for students siting in-person exams
Information about exam venues
Students should read this policy before sitting exams
Find out about your timetable and future exams.
Exam guidance, past papers and wellbeing resource
Find out when resits are scheduled for, and how much they cost.
Some guidance on technologies and steps that may be used when uploading work for online exams.
Information about exam absences and requesting special arrangements.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/modules:
This catalogue provides information about undergraduate and postgraduate modules.
To see a full list of compulsory and optional modules for your degree, read the:
undergraduate programme requirements postgraduate programme requirements
Curriculum information may be subject to change.
Any modifications use the course revision protocol .
The following links will display modules offered per Academic School.
An alternative search interface is available for adviser of studies.
Previous modules are found in the module archive .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/reqs:
A degree programme at St Andrews contains a number of compulsory modules and a number of optional modules, each module having a specified number of credits.
This document specifies what these modules are for the programme, and at what stage in a programme they are normally taken.
The purpose is to provide students and their Advisers with the information they need in order to make academically informed choices about degree programmes and modules or combination of modules.
Fetching results...
University of St Andrews College Gate St Andrews KY16 9AJ Fife, Scotland, UK
© 2025 University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/specs:
This document gives a general overview of what a learner will do, and what skills and knowledge they will gain, in the course of the degree programme.
Programme Specifications contain brief descriptions of the aims, learning outcomes and teaching, learning and assessment strategies for all of the University's degree programmes at undergraduate and taught postgraduate level.
Examples of ways in which these aims, outcomes and strategies may be demonstrated and achieved are also included.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study-abroad:
The Global Office provides coordinated support for key Global activities which enhance student experience, academic reputation and research connectivity internationally.
The Global Office has vacated our current premises in the Bute Building and later this month will be relocating to St Mary's Place alongside the Careers Centre.
All appointments are currently being held online.
Learn more about our University of Sanctuary activities.
Book an appointment with the Global Office team.
Read more about the Global Office activities on our blog.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/academic/timetablinginformation:
You are here: University » Current Students » Academic matters » Timetabling information
Welcome to the university's timetabling homepage.
From this page you will be able to access module and classroom timetable information.
Your personal timetable will be available through MySaint and is located in the 'Events' tab.
This will show the teaching activities related to modules you are enrolled on in the current semester, but will only display once you have completed advising and for some sessions, only when you have signed up(or been signed up) for a particular session(e.g.
one of ten tutorials).
To ensure that you always see the latest information on your personal timetable, and receive noti fication of short notice changes (within the next seven days) , please make sure you have unticked the ‘I don’t want to receive notifications’ box via your profile when logged into Publish (we will not use these notifications for any other purpose ) .
A full timetable for a module can be viewed at: Timetables where you can use the view options to show information for specific days, weeks, semester or session and can select multiple modules and display the information in a range of ways.
For information on your first meetings, please click on the following link Academic advising
Module class times
Locations
‌
FAQs
Timetabling Services
Planning Walter Bower House Eden Campus Guardbridge KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3099
Email: timetabling@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/residences/guide:
This section provides important information for current residents.
Information about your key or keycard and what to do if you are locked out or lose your key.
Information about cleaning, laundry, mail, and heating in University accommodation.
Find out which items are permitted or prohibited in your room and information about the University's contents insurance for students.
Information about connecting to the internet, using landline phones, and getting a TV license.
Information about how long guests can stay and how to notify your hall of residence about overnight guests.
Information about leaving or staying in your residence during the Christmas and spring vacations.
The process for leaving your accommodation at the end of your contract or during the vacation periods.
How to report a fault along with information about health and safety inspections and maintenance.
Information on results of vandalism, damage and breaches.
Information about illness, drug and alcohol misuse, security and fire safety in halls.
Quick tips on safe use of electrical equipment.
During your studies there may be times when you need some help and advice.
Nightline is a student-run, confidential, anonymous listening and information service at the University of St Andrews.
There are many simple but important measures you can take on a daily basis for living sustainably when in University residences.
The GoSEStran app is a travel app designed to help plan journeys with a lower carbon footprint.
Enter your destination to compare all available transport options in one easy to use app.
Review journey options by price, duration and carbon emissions.
In addition to all major public transport options, the app will soon be updated to include the below low-carbon transport options which are only available in St Andrews;
Download the app

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/pay-fees-undergraduate:
Updated on: 11 March 2025
All you need to know about paying your fees as an undergraduate student.
The University of St Andrews does not send out invoices for tuition or accommodation fees.
Your tuition fee will be advised in your offer letter.
Your accommodation fee will be in your accommodation contract.
The tuition fees page and undergraduate accommodation fees page also show full details of how much you need to pay.
You can pay for tuition and accommodation in a single full payment or split in instalments .
Payment or having an instalment plan is required to complete matriculation .
Fees can generally be paid in one payment, or by instalments.
Payment methods include bank transfers and card payments.
For more details see:
If a private company or another organisation will be paying your fees, read the guidance for externally funded students .
If you are an international student who needs a visa to study in the UK, you must have enough money to pay your fees and to cover your living expenses while at the University.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/pay-fees-postgraduate:
Updated on: 28 January 2025
Learn about the different options for paying your fees as a postgraduate taught (PGT) or postgraduate research (PGR) student.
The tuition fees page and postgraduate accommodation fees page show full details of how much you need to pay.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/returning-students-apply:
If you are a returning student, select an option below to find out when and how to apply for accommodation, and what happens after you apply.
You can submit one application for a place in halls of residence or managed properties per academic year.
You cannot apply for both halls of residence and managed properties in the same year.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/undergraduate:
The University of St Andrews offers accommodation specifically for undergraduate and foundation students.
Prospective undergraduate and foundation students can apply for University accommodation 48 hours after receiving and accepting their conditional, unconditional or insurance offer to study and paying their pre-payment (if applicable).
Students can apply online from 1 March by completing an accommodation application form.
An accommodation guarantee is available for eligible first-year undergraduates.
How to apply for accommodation
Apply now
In self-catered standard accommodation, you will share kitchen and shower room facilities with other residents.
Single room with a large single bed in a five-bedroom apartment with shared kitchen and shower room.
Single room with a single bed.
Shower rooms and kitchens are shared.
Single room with a small double bed.
Students in self-catered en suite accommodation have a private shower room, as well as access to a shared kitchen.
Single or shared rooms with double beds and an en suite shower room sharing a kitchen with up to 12 other students.
Single or shared room with single or double beds and an en suite shower room in a five-bedroom apartment with a shared kitchen.
Single room with a double bed and an en suite shower room in a five-bedroom apartment with a shared kitchen.
Single room with a small double bed and an en suite bathroom, with a shared kitchen.
Two accessible rooms are available.
The Hall is close to the science buildings on the North Haugh.
In catered standard accommodation, students can live in a private or shared room, and have access to a shared kitchen and shower room.
Meals are provided for a specific number of weeks.
Single or shared room with single beds.
Single or shared room with mostly small double beds.
In catered en suite accommodation, students can live in a private or shared room with a private shower room, and meals are provided for a specific number of weeks.
Single room with a single bed, en suite shower room, and shared kitchens.
Single room with a small double bed, en suite shower room, and shared kitchens.
From the Student Accommodation Survey 2024-2025:
I like the common area, a good place to study.
And the staff are very nice!
– David Russell Apartments
Cleaning is always high-quality.
Memos and notifications from the committee about what's going on in the Hall are always forwarded to us.
– Andrew Melville Hall
Create a warm environment with plenty of activities to meet new people, including for international students.
– St Salvator’s Hall
Friendly service and accessibility when help is needed.
– Agnes Blackadder Hall
The wardens and committee do a good job organizing regular and enjoyable hall events.
All staff are very approachable and friendly.
– University Hall
Find out how to apply for accommodation at the University of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/postgraduate:
The University of St Andrews offers accommodation specifically for postgraduate students.
Prospective postgraduate students can apply for University accommodation 48 hours after receiving and accepting a conditional or unconditional offer to study.
Specific information is available for visiting postgraduates .
Students can apply online from Saturday 1 March by completing the online form .
The application process is different for families and couples.
See more information on how to apply for family or couple accommodation .
Visit the scholarships and funding page to search for accommodation funding options.
Postgraduate taught students with an overseas fee status are eligible for guaranteed accommodation .
While postgraduate taught and research students with a home fee status are not guaranteed accommodation, the University expects to be able to offer accommodation to many of them.
After receiving your accommodation application, we will contact you every month to update you on the current accommodation availability and give you advice on securing private accommodation.
A significant number of University postgraduate students live in private accommodation .
In self-catered standard accommodation, you will share a kitchen and bathroom facilities with other residents in self-contained apartments.
Single or accessible room in a three or four-bedroom apartment with shared bathroom and kitchen.
Single room with a large single bed in a five-bedroom apartment with shared bathroom and kitchen.
Single bedroom in a two or five-bedroom apartment with shared kitchen and bathroom.
Individual room in a shared house or apartment of two to four bedrooms.
Includes parking, green spaces and a play area.
A furnished room with a single bed in a terraced house with one to five bedrooms.
Self-catered en suite accommodation provides students with a shared kitchen and a private bathroom.
Single room with a small double bed and en suite bathroom and a shared kitchen.
Two accessible rooms available.
Single room with a single bed and en suite bathroom in a two-bedroom apartment with a shared kitchen.
Deans Court and Fife Park are the only catered residences for postgraduate students.
A selection of single standard and single en suite rooms with a shared kitchen, or a studio apartment with a double bed and private bathroom.
A single room in a five-bedroom apartment with shared kitchen, toilet and shower.
Self-catered en suite studio apartments provide accommodation for couples and individuals who need private kitchen facilities.
The apartments are self-contained, furnished as a studio bedroom with a double bed, a well-appointed kitchen recess, and an en suite bathroom.
Suitable for a single person or couple, this studio apartment has a double bed, private kitchen and bathroom.
They are all excellent at the job, I continue to look forward to living here!
Great accommodation: nice room, good soundproofing.
– Powell Hall
They are always nice to students, listen carefully to the issues they have, and forward the issues to related departments quickly.
– The Grange
Very quick communication and have always done their best to answer our queries or provide the assistance required.
– Leuchars

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/guides:
More information and guidance for living in University student accommodation.
Understand the words we use to describe the various types of University accommodation.
What to do when you first arrive at your University hall of residence or University property.
Learn about the University’s student accommodation guarantees.
Find out what is expected of you and what your cleaning responsibilities are.
Find out how to get a car parking permit as a student, and which University car parks you can park in.
Understand what bedding you need for your accommodation, what to bring or what to order to be delivered before you arrive.
Find out how to get medical help and support, and what to do if you need to stay in hospital.
Learn about the policy on pets in student accommodation, the definition of an assistance dog, and your responsibilities if your assistance dog stays with you in student accommodation.
Understand whether you can stay in your University accommodation during vacations.
Understand whether you can store your belongings in University accommodation during the semesters and vacations.
Get involved with your hall community through events hosted by your hall of residence.
Understand the conditions that apply to accommodation transfer requests.
Find out what devices can connect to the University’s wifi in student accommodation and what items you may want to leave at home.
Find out what to bring to help you settle in at University and what to leave at home.
Find out what to do after accepting your offer of accommodation, including how to book an arrival slot and whether you can send your luggage before you arrive.
Learn what services and support the Halls Life team offer student residents in the University’s halls of residence.
Learn about the role of hall committees, how they can help you, and how you can join one.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/advice/academic:
You are here: University » Current Students » Advice and support » Academic advice
This section for current students provides advice and support on academic matters, from absence reporting to taking time out.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/support/health-issues:
The Student Health Hub is a good place to start if you have questions about accessing health care, or if you aren't sure who to talk to.
You can contact The Student Health Hub:
For more information on closures, visit the website of your medical practice:
If you are missing classes because you are unwell, there is information about absence reporting online or in your student handbook.
If your School has asked for medical evidence, you can contact Student Services for advice by calling +44 (0)1334 46 2020 or completing this online form .
Learn how to access dental treatment through the NHS or private clinics.
Learn where to find free products and tests at the University.
What to do when you have a minor or serious injury, and where to get help.
Understand where to find the right medical help as a University of St Andrews student, including the need to register with a GP, support from the University and what help pharmacists can provide.
Understand how to get prescription medicine in the UK and the restrictions that apply to international students.
Where you can get vaccinations and information.
Learn how to register with a doctor when you arrive in St Andrews.
Learn about sexual health and the related services available to students, and how to get free condoms, contraceptive advice, and emergency contraception.
Who to contact, how you can get help and what to do about classes, assessments and exams.
Find out what vaccines you need and what to do if you are in St Andrews and have not been vaccinated.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/sexual-misconduct:
The University is committed to providing a safe environment that gives staff and students the confidence to work, study, innovate and excel.
People of any sex or sexual orientation are protected and supported by the University of St Andrews Sexual Misconduct Policy Statement .
Use the Report and Support Tool .
Sexual misconduct covers a broad range of inappropriate, unwanted behaviour.
From the most severe forms of sexual violence, including rape and sexual assault, it extends to unwanted touching, stalking, and abusive or degrading remarks.
Whilst detailing all the behaviour covered by this policy would be impossible, the common thread is the disregard of informed consent.
Consent is always required and cannot be assumed based on the relationship status or sexual history of the people involved.
The University’s Duty of Care extends to both alleged victims and alleged perpetrators of sexual misconduct.
Find out about the University's duty to support students accused of sexual misconduct .
If you have used harmful or abusive behaviours towards a partner, you can reach out for confidential support to Respect , a telephone service that provides specialist resources for those using abusive behaviours.
Visit the website or call the support line on +44 (0)808 8024040 .
Security and Response Team Email: security@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 8999
Student Services (Support) Ask a question Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2020
Student Conduct Officer (Report) Within hours of 9am-5pm Email: studentconduct@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3445 or +44 (0)1334 46 4356
Fife Rape and Sexual Assault Centre Offers free and confidential support to anyone over 12 years of age and of any gender who has been raped or sexually assaulted.
Email: info@frasac.org.uk Phone: +44 (0)1592 642336
Rape Crisis Scotland Their helpline offers initial and short-term support by phone, email, webchat or text for people of any gender living in Scotland who are over 13 years of age and who have been affected by sexual violence.
There is also a webchat available from 5pm to midnight.
Phone: +44 (0)808 801 0302
Revenge Porn Helpline Supports adults over 18 years of age who are experiencing intimate image abuse or revenge porn.
Phone: +44 (0)3456 000 459
Kingdom Abuse Survivors Project Offers a Fife-wide service of counselling and support to anyone over the age of 16 who has experienced sexual abuse as a child.
Phone: +44 (0)1592 644217
LGBT Domestic Abuse Scotland A project focused on raising awareness of LGBTQ+ people's experiences of domestic abuse.
Survivors UK Supports male and non-binary survivors of sexual violence.
Chat online or using SMS text, or email the helpline at help@survivorsuk.org .
Galop (LGBT+) Helpline open to anyone LGBT+ who is based in the UK, as well as friends, family and professionals who are concerned about an LGBT+ person who is experiencing abuse.
Phone: +44 (0)800 999 5428
SARCS Offers help and information in the days after a rape or sexual assault.
This can include arranging a forensic medical examination (FME) without making a report to the police.
Anyone over the age of 16 can self-refer.
For more information, read the SARCS information leaflet .
Phone: +44 (0)800 148 8888

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/support/wellbeing-mental-health:
University staff work collaboratively with students, offering both one-off, one-at-a-time appointments and ongoing support as appropriate.
Student Services delivers support through a matched care model that considers the individual needs of each student and evidence-based practice.
The services provided depend on a student's needs and circumstances, including location of study.
Understand what changes and circumstances should be discussed with your School, and how to contact your School.
Learn about self-esteem and confidence and the help available for students facing self-confidence issues.
Meeting new people and feeling at home at university.
Learn how setting realistic goals can keep you motivated.
Learn about your responsibilities and the support available if you are chosen to be a student’s emergency contact.
Understand what coaching support the University of St Andrews offers students and how to book an appointment.
Understand what counselling services the University offers students and how to book an appointment.
Learn how to find and enjoy friendships at university and what help is available if relationships become unhealthy.
Advice on how to deal with exam anxiety and where to get more help.
Examples of different areas of addiction, information about how the University can help students and the external support available.
Learn about the symptoms of stress and how to reduce it.
Learn about anxiety and the help available for students.
The support available for students experiencing the loss of a loved one.
Understand how to find a coach, therapist or counsellor who is registered with a professional organisation in the UK.
Learn about different forms of anger and methods to manage them.
Learn how to stop your own high standards from holding you back.
Understand how Student Services can help you with your wellbeing including times when you experience anxiety and stress, and what resources you can access as a University of St Andrews student.
How to practice mindfulness and the benefits it may offer students at university.
Learn how to face the challenges of study, how to build resilience, and where to get help.
Learn how to be more assertive and find resources to help.
Managing an urge to self-harm and finding help to develop long-term coping strategies.
Learn about the wellbeing workshops designed to support your personal growth and academic success.
Learn about imposter syndrome and the help available for students experiencing this issue.
Learn how the University uses emergency contacts to make sure you remain safe and well during your studies.
Learn about procrastination and the help available for students.
Learn about resources and support available for LGBTQ+ students at St Andrews.
Advice on how students can be kinder to and more accepting of themselves and what support is available.
Learn how to help keep yourself and others safe.
Help and information for students about substance misuse.
Learn why good sleep is important for your health and studies and what help is available.
Learn what support is available from the University as well as external organisations to help with eating disorders.
Information about the support available in the University for students with complex mental health problems.
Learn about depression and low mood and the help available for students.
Learn about gender identity and the support available to transgender and gender-nonconforming students.
Learn how to organise your activities to achieve your goals.
Find out what you can do and what support is available if you are concerned about a friend’s mental health or wellbeing.
What to expect from your first consultation session with Student Services.
Understand what kind of help you can get from the Advice and Support Centre (ASC) and how to contact them.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/advice/disabilities:
The University provides support for students who declare a disability when they start their course and during their studies.
A range of reasonable adjustments can be put in place to help students achieve their academic potential and to make the transition to university as smooth as possible.
New students should contact the Disability Service as soon as they apply to study at the University, to start the process of putting arrangements in place before starting their course.
Medical information and supporting documentation may be required to ensure appropriate support is put in place or as part of an application for Disabled Students’ Allowance.
Find out if you are eligible for DSA and how to apply if you are.
Understand ADHD and the University support available to students with the condition.
Understand what document formats are available and how to access them.
Understand when and how to organise personal care and independent living arrangements including accommodation, contacting social services for an assessment, employing an assistant, and nursing care.
Understand who to contact to discuss your teaching and living needs as a student with physical disability.
Understand how to request teaching and exam arrangements, and how University staff can support you.
Understand how to access the support available if you are D/deaf or have a hearing impairment.
Understand the advice, support and events available for students with autistic spectrum conditions.
Understand what University support is available if you have a specific learning difference (SpLD).
Understand what support is available to students with disability and how to contact the Disability Service.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/support/international-students:
All Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) cards expire on 31 December 2024.
Create your eVisa account now .
International students usually require a visa to live and study in the UK.
The type of visa you'll need depends on your nationality and the length of your course.
Some students do not need a visa.
The University's Student Immigration Service provides specialist support to international students who require a visa to study at the University of St Andrews.
The service has two teams:
Read more about the University's responsibilities for giving visa advice .
If you are enrolled or employed at another educational institution and you have an arrangement with the University of St Andrews to visit as a researcher, scholar, or visiting academic, your School should email hr.immigration@st-andrews.ac.uk to ask for advice on visas.
Find out if you need a visa and how to apply, how to get an electronic travel authorisation, living in the UK and the requirements for bringing your family.
Understand your visa obligations, visa requirements for working, travelling or family visits, how to extend your visa, and the implications of changing your student status.
Information on visa routes and working after you graduate, and visa requirements for relatives attending your graduation ceremony.
Email advint@st-andrews.ac.uk to get advice on how to apply for a replacement if you have lost your visa or passport.
If your BRP is lost or stolen, you may have to pay a fine and have to leave the UK if you don't report it to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) .
Replacement BRPs are no longer issued by UKVI and you'll need to create a UKVI account to access your eVisa to prove your immigration status.
Student Immigration Service University of St Andrews Walter Bower House Eden Campus Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/support/help-now:
Essential contact information for students in an emergency, crisis or urgent situation.
If you, or a person you are concerned about, are in immediate danger , call 999 (9-999 from an internal University phone).
This number is the UK’s official emergency number.
Police, fire or ambulance services will be sent to you, depending on the type of help you need.
For help 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, you can call the Security and Response team on +44 (0)1334 46 8999 , if you:
Student Services staff are available 24 hours a day for help in emergency situations.
If you have urgent concerns about your welfare, or the welfare of another student, contact Student Services or the Advice and Support Centre (ASC) by calling +44 (0)1334 46 2020 , Monday to Friday, 8.45am to 5pm.
Call Student Services
The University supports survivors of sexual violence, which includes sexual assault and harassment.
If you’ve experienced sexual violence or are unsure of what to do, please consider:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers:
Complete bite-sized, online learning courses you can access anytime, anywhere.
If you are an employer looking to attract the best talent, you can advertise your vacancies, host events or book onto a careers fair today.
The Careers Centre is always keen to work with you to raise your profile and help you connect with our students.
Careers Centre University of St Andrews 6 St Mary's Place St Andrews KY16 9UY
Email: careers@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2688
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2688 Ask a question through CareerConnect

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/jobs:
Discover job opportunities if you are a St Andrews student or recent alumnus.
If you are an international student looking to stay and work or start a business in the UK, see the working in the UK page for visa advice.
Jobs on CareerConnect University of St Andrews jobs
Current students and recent graduates can apply for any of these jobs by signing in to CareerConnect .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/internships:
Internships are a great way to support you on your career journey and help you explore different career paths.
They can also develop your networks and give you the knowledge to achieve your career goals.
The Careers Centre can offer you:
Internships on CareerConnect GoinGlobal internships
Explore our unique internship opportunities available at every stage of your career journey.
The Careers Centre organises a work shadowing programme in which alumni, friends and staff of the University of St Andrews offer their time for you to shadow them at their place of work.
Financial support for University of St Andrews students to complete work-related activity.
Discover competitions and funding opportunities to help you pursue employability experiences.
This certificate recognises professional-level work experience on your academic transcript.
Advice on how to obtain appropriate legally required documentation for an internship in Europe.
Answers to some commonly asked questions.
Find out how to search for UK and international opportunities.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/how-to-apply:
The Careers Centre can help you apply for jobs, internships and further study.
Consider reading its advice on using AI to apply for jobs .
The essentials of filling out application forms and the types of questions you may be asked.
Find out how to prepare for assessment centres and the different activities you may encounter.
Learn how to structure your cover letter to impress employers and encourage them to find out more about you.
How to write your CV to impress an employer and secure an interview.
You can also view example CVs.
Take courses at St Andrews to build your key employability skills.
Prepare for an interview by learning about the questions you may be asked and how to respond.
Find out how to connect with others to help you find and learn about opportunities.
Learn about the structure, content and formatting you should use for a personal statement for postgraduate study.
Discover the tests used by graduate employers and how to prepare for them.
Learn how to contact organisations about work or experience opportunities when they have not advertised a vacancy.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/appointments:
The Careers Centre offers one-to-one appointments with careers advisers and CV advisers .
Students, alumni (within three years of graduation), and early career researcher staff can book an appointment.
Read more about the Careers Centre's appointments policy .
Book an appointment
If you can’t come to an appointment, ask a question instead.
To talk about any aspect of your career, including postgraduate study.
Appointments are at the Careers Centre or on Microsoft Teams, and last 15 minutes.
You can have a longer appointment if you and the adviser feel it would help.
You don't need to know what you want to do before you meet an adviser.
You can talk about anything, such as:
To talk about your CV, cover letter or LinkedIn profile.
Appointments are on Microsoft Teams, and last 15 minutes.
You can talk about things like:
Before coming to your appointment, read our advice on CVs , cover letters and LinkedIn .
Also consider submitting your CV to CareerSet , for AI-generated feedback.
If you’re a graduate, email careers@st-andrews.ac.uk for an access code.
To talk about interviews or to have a mock interview.
Appointments are at the Careers Centre or on Microsoft Teams, and last 45 minutes.
You can get help with interviews you've been invited to, or support with interviews in general.
Before coming to your appointment, read our advice on interviews .
Also consider practising common interview questions using Graduates First , an online video interview practice tool.
For early career researcher staff to talk about any aspect of their career.
You can book an appointment through CareerConnect.
Get immediate, AI-generated feedback on your CV or cover letter.
Practise and record interviews with Graduate First.
Receive instant AI-powered feedback on your performance.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/career-options:
The Careers Centre can help you find a career, whatever your year of study or wherever you are in your career journey.
For further advice, you can book an appointment with a careers adviser.
If you're interested in using generative AI, like ChatGPT, to help you explore your options, read the Careers Centre's advice on using generative AI .
Advice on finding a career path related to your degree.
Advice on finding a career path after your PhD.
Explore career sectors that are most popular with St Andrews graduates.
Consider which careers may be suitable for you.
Find out about the many further study options available after graduation.
The career journey is a way of helping you to think about your career development while you study at St Andrews.
A gap year is where you take time out at the end of your course before seeking graduate opportunities or commencing further study.
Careers information, advice and support for students with disabilities, mental and long-term health conditions, and neurodiversity.
Employment opportunities and information on connecting with others based on shared identities, interests or needs.
Discover how committed a potential employer is to sustainability, to help you make an informed choice.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support:
IT Services provide computer, telephone and AV services to students and staff at the University of St Andrews.
IT Service Desk Main Library North Street St Andrews KY16 9TR
Email: itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3333
IT Services Twitter IT Services blog

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/wifi/connect-to-eduroam:
Eduroam is a secure wireless network available for staff and students to use in most University buildings.
If you don't have an internet connection, use the uos-connect wifi network to set up eduroam.
You can set up eduroam before you arrive at St Andrews by visiting cat.eduroam.org .
Download the eduroam installer for the University of St Andrews ahead of time so that it appears as an available wifi network when you get here.
Download the geteduroam app to set up eduroam on your mobile device.
If you uninstall the app, you'll need to set up eduroam again later so keep it installed after you've connected.
On Android devices, you may be asked to enter the following settings:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/printing:
Staff and students can access printers in over 60 locations.
University printers work on a pull print system, allowing you to collect your documents from any connected printer using your ID card.
Documents stay in the print queue for 24 hours.
Students can top up their printing account online or use the machine in the Main Library.
If you're a staff member, your professional service unit or School will pay for your printing.
Find out where University printers are located, printing costs and how to send a document to a printer.
Staff and students can set up UniPrint on their devices to allow them to use the University's pull print system.
Students can top up their printing account online.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/email:
Microsoft 365 is the University's email system.
For training videos and more help guides, search the Outlook help center .
Create and manage distribution groups in the Outlook Web App to communicate with large groups of colleagues more easily.
Once your distribution group is created, you can email the whole group, invite them to meetings and add them to Microsoft Teams.
If your list include external email addresses, create your list in Sympa instead.When you are creating your distribution group, please ensure that you have a moderator set.
IT Services can help setup a mailing list for you; just let us know your requirements.
Microsoft guides
Use Sympa to create mailing lists which contain external email addresses.
If you want an internal mailing list, you can create a distribution group in Outlook .
You’ll receive an email confirming your list has been activated once IT Services approves it.
If each member of your team receives similar queries, it may be worth setting up a shared mailbox.
You'll get a confirmation email from UniDesk, then IT Services will be in touch once the mailbox has been created.
If you receive a phishing email, forward it to phishing@st-andrews.ac.uk so IT Services can intervene.
For more information see IT security .
Learn how to manage your junk email .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/pc-availability/home.htm:
©  University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/software:
If you're a student, you'll find the software you need in Apps Anywhere or installed in certain PC classrooms.
Some software can be used on your personal device when you're away from campus.
Staff can use the Software Center to install software to your University owned device and access any software in Apps Anywhere.
Find out how to access software available for students to use on classroom PCs and personal devices.
Members of University staff can find out how to access software available to them.
Use the University app store to access software on University PCs and personal devices.
Staff and students can access Adobe Creative Cloud apps for free on selected PCs.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/microsoft-365:
The University subscribes to Microsoft 365 so that staff and students can access Microsoft applications and productivity tools for free.
Staff and students can use the web applications on any device and can download Microsoft 365 desktop apps , like Word and PowerPoint on up to five personal devices.
Outlook allows you to manage your emails, contacts and calendar appointments all in one place.
Teams is a chat and collaboration platform designed to simplify group work.
OneDrive for Business allows you to save files to the cloud instead of your PC so you can access them on any device.
Only you and whoever you choose to share them with can view these documents.
Stream is Microsoft's video player.
Sign into Microsoft 365 to watch and share videos, including Teams meeting recordings.
Use Microsoft Forms to create a survey, quiz, or poll.
Use Sway to create and share interactive reports, presentations, personal stories, and more.
University service providers can create a friendly booking page so that students and staff can book face-to-face appointments - see Microsoft booking example .
‘Bookings with me’ in Outlook is a web-based personal scheduling page that integrates with the free/busy information from your Outlook calendar.
This allows staff and students to schedule a meeting or appointment with you.
Capture your ideas, meeting notes and to-do lists in one place wherever you are.
Create a plan board in Planner to keep your teamwork organised.
Choose a set of people that you wish to collaborate with and set up shared resources.
These include a shared inbox, calendar and a document library.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/new-students:
There is a range of IT support available for students at the University.
Once you've activated your account, you have 14 days to sign up for multi-factor authentication .
This gives you access to:
Read the IT checklist for new students
Eduroam is a secure wireless network available for staff and students to use in most University buildings.
If you've got an internet connection already, visit cat.eduroam.org to download the eduroam certificate.
If you're working offline, use the offline method using our uos-connect network .
If you're staying in Halls of Residences, connect your recreational devices to resnet .
Follow the instructions to set up eduroam wifi then sign in using University your email address and password to connect.
See all eduroam guides
Send documents to any printer and retrieve your print job using your ID card.
To print, you can:
When your print balance is running low, you can top it up online .
The IT Service Desk will be your main point of contact for all computer, internet and other IT-related issues.
You can reach the IT Service Desk through the following ways:
View our opening hours

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/music:
The University offers superb music facilities, based in the award-winning Laidlaw Music Centre, and exceptional opportunities to perform, study and listen, for students and for all who wish to become involved.
Welcome to the Laidlaw Music Centre.
This magnificent, award-winning new building is at the heart of the very busy musical life here in St Andrews.
Every week, hundreds of students, staff and members of the wider community come together here to sing, play, compose, create, study and listen.
Many of those who come to make music here do so purely for pleasure, but some come because they would like music to form part of their future career or because they are studying music as part of their degree.
Whatever your musical interests or your reasons for making music, my colleagues and I aim to make your musical life in St Andrews as rich, varied, stimulating and enjoyable as possible.
We offer a wide range of modules at all levels of the undergraduate degree, as well as a master's programme in sacred music.
We are able to support many of our talented student singers and instrumentalists with scholarships that provide free tuition from our team of internationally renowned specialist teachers.
Please visit our website for more details of all these opportunities.
Scholarships are awarded at the beginning of the academic year and give students weekly lessons with our wonderful vocal and instrumental tutors, as well as a chance to play and sing in our audition groups.
Aside from this, you can also book practice rooms, purchase music lessons, hire equipment, record music in our recording suite and play in our non-audition groups.
The Music Centre also hosts visiting musicians, such as the Scottish Chamber Orchestra and the Fitzwilliam String Quartet in our state-of-the-art Macpherson Recital Room.
Alongside university-led music is a vibrant community of student-run ensembles.
Music Society, established in 1876, is the oldest and largest with six auditioned and non-auditioned groups, ranging from a symphony orchestra to a twenty-feet big band.
In addition, St Andrew's is home to six a cappella groups, Jazzworks, Folk and Trad, Musical Theatre, Chamber Opera and Gilbert and Sullivan Societies, to name but a few.
With an ever-growing programme of concerts and theatre, each semester there really is a musical opportunity for all.
Laidlaw Music Centre University of St Andrews Queen's Terrace St Andrews KY16 9QF
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2226 Email: music@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/lifelong-learning/support/undergraduate/laidlaw:
The Laidlaw Scholars Leadership and Research Programme at the University of St Andrews is dedicated to developing a new generation of leaders who combine strong research skills with a commitment to ethical leadership and data-driven decision-making.
We invest in passionate undergraduate students, equipping them with the knowledge, skills, and experiences to become active global citizens and leaders in their chosen fields.
Applications for the Laidlaw Programme for 2026 will open in November 2025.
Learn about the history of the Laidlaw Scholars Programme at St Andrews and what the programme offers today.
Information for prospective applicants about becoming a Laidlaw scholar.
Key dates and information about research, leadership training, leadership-in-action, and the travel fund.
Information and requirements for current Laidlaw supervisors.
See research posters and leadership-in-action videos created by past Laidlaw scholars.
Get in touch with the Laidlaw team at the University of St Andrews.
International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute University of St Andrews Kinnessburn Kennedy Gardens St Andrews KY16 9DJ
Email: laidlaw@st-andrews.ac.uk Instagram: Laidlaw Scholars

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/ambassadors:
Applications to join the student Ambassador scheme are currently closed.
The Student Ambassador scheme is programme aimed at students who share a passion for the University and feel able to share their knowledge and experience to motivate and encourage other young people to consider higher education.
Student Ambassadors play a crucial role in a wide range of student experience and outreach activities.
This includes visiting days, virtual sessions and Widening Participation programmes the University supports around Fife and the UK.
Ambassadors also support a variety of events for faculties and service units across the University.
The program is designed to be flexible around studies and we welcome students – both undergraduate and postgraduate - from all backgrounds to consider submitting an application to the scheme.
Representing the University of St Andrews through the Ambassador Scheme is an exciting and rewarding way to develop employability skills and gain relevant work experience while meeting other students from different backgrounds
Being a Student Ambassador is a deeply rewarding opportunity both on a personal level and also in terms of your career prospects after leaving St Andrews.
As a Student Ambassador you have the opportunity to get involved with many different types of work allowing you to develop skills you already have as well as gain new ones.
Our Ambassadors are typically confident, dynamic and strong communicators.
Such skills may include;
As a Student Ambassador you are the face of the University and as part of this role, you will relay information about your St Andrews experience to the prospective students of tomorrow.
You will be highly influential in decisions that have a big impact on the University including a student's decision to study with us.
Alongside our visiting days, the Ambassador scheme offers a fantastic opportunity to get involved with the University's many widening participation and outreach programmes.
Working with young people across Fife and the UK on projects like First Chances and Space School are among the most rewarding experiences you can have as a St Andrews student.
Every year individuals who have participated in these schemes in years gone by join St Andrews, with fond memories of times spent here when they were younger.
As Ambassadors progress through the scheme, they are entrusted with additional responsibilities which offer greater chances for personal development and the development of leadership skills.
The Ambassador handbook gives further details of the progression process and overview of each position.
As the official student representatives for the University, the Student Ambassadors are involved in a wide range of projects, events, and activities.
While the following list is not exhaustive, it details a number of the main project focused on student experience and widening access and participation.
The student Ambassadors are heavily involved in the University’s visiting days and offer holder events , instantly recognisable by their red t-shirts and gowns!
Responsibilities on these days involve leading town and accommodation tours, assisting academics in subject talks, managing the registration desk and directing visitors around the town.
Ask a student is an email based service which allows prospective students to contact current students (Ambassadors) to ask any questions they might have about student life in St Andrews.
The Principal Team will connect prospective students with the most appropriate Ambassador to answer their question.
The University welcomes prospective students and their families to St Andrews every week, not just on visiting days!
Visitors can book onto a ‘Talk and Tour’, which begins with a 1 hour tour of the town led by a Student Ambassador, followed by a 1 hour talk in the Admissions building led by a member of the Admissions team.
While walking their route, Ambassadors are expected to talk to visitors, answer their questions, and share their personal experience of being a student at St Andrews.
Experienced guides may apply to join the advanced tour team, who are given the opportunity to deliver personalised tours for special guests to the University.
Talk and Tours
The University welcomes prospective students and their families to St Andrews every week, not just on visiting days!
Visitors can book onto a ‘Talk and Tour’, which begins with a 1 hour tour of the town led by a Student Ambassador, followed by a 1 hour talk led by a member of the Admissions team.
Ambassadors will guide visitors around the town, introducing them to the university and telling them about things such as traditions, student life and accommodation.
While walking their route, Ambassadors are also expected to talk to visitors, answer their questions, and share their personal experience of being a student at St Andrews.
Red Gown Tour
Experienced guides may apply to join the Red Gown Tour team.
This advanced tour team conducts tours for special guests of the university and visitors who are not prospective students.
These tours are focused more on the history of the university and the town and are often personalised to the guests.
After an application process, Student Ambassadors can support the Admissions department with several of the University’s widening access and participation initiatives and projects aimed at young people in Fife and across the UK.
The main goal of these initiatives is to help those from under-represented groups achieve their full potential with the ultimate goal of accessing higher education.
Because these projects can change year-on-year depending on being awarded external funding, it is hard to provide a comprehensive list of projects.
However, in the past, Student Ambassadors have:
Alongside more regular opportunities, Ambassadors will sometimes be requested by individual Schools or Units to help out with various projects and events.
In the past, Student Ambassadors have:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/how-to-book-a-student-event:
Events are an integral part of life at St Andrews, where we have dedicated departments within the Students' Association (Students' Union), Saints Sport, and Residential and Business Services (RBS) to assist you in organising an event in one of our many and varied venues.
These departments can advise on the best venue and provide guidance to ensure your event is successful and safe.
The reservations team is on hand for students and staff wishing to book a University controlled room.
Students can reserve a University controlled room for events occuring after 6pm from Monday to Friday or at any time on the weekend.
These include rooms in United Colleges, Parliament Hall, and the Arts building, amongst others.
Complete the student room booking request form to reserve a room for your student meeting or event.
For semester bookings, multiple room bookings, or any other queries, email reserve@st-andrews.ac.uk with your request.
The University events manager deals with events in University controlled spaces that are a little larger in scope and involve the following:
The University events manager will provide guidance and support with the planning and execution of your event.
Send an email to unievents@st-andrews.ac.uk to begin a consultation.
The Students' Association (SA) can assist sub committees, affiliated societies or groups, and individuals looking to book a meeting room, rehearsal space or commercial area within the Union building.
Visit the University of St Andrews Students' Association website for more information and to use their resource booker .
If you have any other questions or require further assistance about Union spaces, you can email the Student Sabbatical Officers (Sabbs) and the room booking team at the following addresses:
Sports clubs wishing to host an event at University Park can make a facility booking request by completing the sports club event form .
Booking requests will be reviewed by the Saints Sport Duty Managers who will check availability and, where necessary, invite the event organiser to a meeting to discuss the event in more detail.
If you apply for a booking at University Park, you should not start making any commitments or advertising your event until you have received a booking confirmation from Saints Sport.
All event organisers should read and make themselves aware of the Saints Sport Conditions of Hire before booking facilities at University Park.
For events run at University Park, a Duty Manager will be assigned to the event to provide operational and facility support and advice for the sports club or other event organisers.
Before inviting a high-profile visitor to the University you must request permission from the Principal’s Office and Corporate Communications.
If your event features a government minister, a Member of Parliament, including election candidates for the Scottish, UK, European or other parliaments, a senior civil servant, a special advisor, an ambassador, a business leader or the head of a funding body, please read the guidance on how to request permission for a high-profile visit to the University.
All departments are here to help you so don't hesitate to get in touch.
Health and safety requirements will be discussed for your event, and it is a legal requirement to follow the rules set out by each department.
University events listing Current students homepage

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/museums/support-us/volunteer:
Volunteering plays an important role for University Collections at the University of St Andrews and benefits the individuals who participate.
You do not need any experience to apply for a volunteer post.
Volunteers:
The volunteer policy offers more information about volunteering with us.
Volunteer opportunities are advertised on this webpage throughout the year.
To apply, complete the University Museums Volunteering form (Word) and email it to museumlearning@st-andrews.ac.uk .
You may be invited to an informal interview.
Learning and Engagement team Email: museumlearning@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1699
Museums University of St Andrews 87 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AE
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1660 Email: museumenquiries@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/spaces:
The University offers a variety of study spaces.
This page will help you find:
Wifi and toilets are available in all our libraries.
Physical access University map
The University's largest library is in the centre of St Andrews.
St Mary's College Library, incorporating the King James Library.
The Thomson Reading Room is in Martyrs Kirk.
JF Allen Library is part of the Physics and Astronomy building on the North Haugh.
This library is in the basement of The Gateway building on the North Haugh.
The Walter Bower House Library is in the Eden Campus in Guardbridge.
Study rooms and PC Classrooms are available from Monday to Sunday, 24 hours a day, in the Butts Wynd Building.
Find a PC classroom using University maps.
Log in and check the 'Find space' tab for PC and teaching classroom availability.
Learn how to use a University printer.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money:
« Back to Current Students
You are here: University » Current Students » Money matters

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/cost-of-living:
Like many countries, the United Kingdom is currently affected by inflationary pressures which have impacted the cost of living.
The University and the Students’ Association cannot solve the current economic crisis, but there are steps we can take as institutions, and as one community, to provide practical support, targeted financial help, and information where it is most needed.
Below provides information on the range of support available from the University, as well as advice and help on offer in these difficult times.
External to the University, Fife Council has a range of services and support offered to residents of Fife, including help with food, heating and transportation costs.
These can be found on the Our Fife web pages , however, please be aware that the University is not liable for external web content and may not be aware when this content is changed or removed.
Please share your ideas on what the University can do to address the cost of living crisis for members of our community.
We welcome your feedback and ideas on how we can work together for our community during these difficult times.
Please add suggestions and feedback to this online form.
Our money advice team in student services are experts on helping students access financial advice and support.
You can contact them at Ask a question , by phone 01334 462720 or in person at the Advice and Support Centre .
Discretionary funds exist to support students with living and study costs.
It is not charity or a handout, but one of the ways in which St Andrews tries to ensure all our students can fulfil their potential.
You can apply for funding whenever you need it, and as many times as may be necessary.
The University has negotiated a special deal with Stagecoach to offer a 75% discount on weekly and monthly bus tickets across St Andrews, North-East Fife, and East Scotland.
Staff and students can access tickets by scanning a QR code to link their Stagecoach account to the scheme.
Since its launch in November 2022, the discount travel scheme has already saved staff and students more than £1million collectively and cut the carbon footprint for those travelling for work or study by a phenomenal 614 tonnes in just 12 months.
The pilot scheme will continue and now includes bus operator Moffat and Williamson who will offer the same level of discount
You can find out how to get on board and start saving by following the simple instructions online .
Additional information on sustainable travel can be found on the Sustainability website which includes details on rail travel discounts, lift share schemes and cycling to St Andrews.
Students are reminded to apply for a Young Scot card which gives those under 22 years old free national bus travel across Scotland.
The Students’ Association have produced and extensive Cost of Living Guide to support students in these difficult times.
The guide covers areas from explaining the crisis, money and benefits, food and drink, and provision for families and carers.
Much of the guide focuses on support for students specifically (after all, we are the Students’ Association!) however there is plenty of content which could apply to anyone in the wider community.
We have developed an interactive map of our estate to show available communal warm spaces and their opening times so that members of our community know what is open and when:
We will update this as more spaces are available over the semester.
The Students’ Association Cost of Living Guide also provides details of warm spaces across North-East Fife and Dundee that students can make use of.
The University’s Accommodation, Conferences and Events team (ACE) has partnered with the Students’ Association on a number of initiatives to support students and staff who are struggling with food and other costs.
All cafés in University buildings currently offer competitively priced hot and cold meal deals.
The Students' Association, with the support of the University, has also launched a campus larder , which stocks basic household items and food essentials.
Details of how to make an appointment at the larder can be found on the union's campus larder web page .
These initiatives operate on a first-come, first-served basis while stocks last and are open to all staff and students.
The schemes will run initially until the end of the taught semester to assess demand.
Please use the website form to share feedback and ideas.
The Careers Centre provides details of various resources, bursaries, and support available relating to employment, including part-time work and internships, and we are exploring additional drop-in or information sessions relating to securing part-time work.
Some roles within the University will be open to students.
These vacancies may be advertised through CareerConnect .
You can also register to receive regular email alerts via the University of St Andrews recruitment website .
Other opportunities and funding available to students include:
We are reviewing our existing scholarship and bursary provision to ensure, where possible, that these awards recognise increases in the cost of living, and changes in student circumstances during the academic year.
Full details of current scholarships and bursaries and how to apply can be found online .
The Careers Centre is a valuable resource for students who wish to access opportunities that can help them earn some extra money and develop employability skills.
We can help you find part-time that suit your location and schedule.
The Careers Centre can also help you to find internships that are relevant to your field of study or career aspirations.
Internships offer professional development, networking opportunities and exposure to industries and organizations of interest.
You can search for part-time jobs and internships on Career Connect .
To facilitate access to such opportunities, the Careers Centre can also offer some limited financial support via the employability bursary .
Awards from the bursary are based on various criteria such as merit, need, and background.
For opportunities within the University itself, you can apply to become a student ambassador and also register to receive regular job alerts via the University of St Andrews recruitment website .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money/financialsupport:
You are here: University » Current Students » Money matters » Financial support
If you have money worries and don't know what to do, you can make an appointment to see one of our money advisors Ask a question
There are a number of funds you may be able to apply to for financial help.
For example, the Discretionary Fund (for UK students) the International Student Discretionary Fund (for EU and international students).
You may also be able to borrow money from the University if you have a temporary cash flow problem.
For more detailed advice regarding any more issues or to make an appointment to see one of our money advisors, Student Services, Ask a question

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money/bursariesandscholarships:
You are here: University » Current Students » Money matters » Bursaries and scholarships
The University will process scholarships for fees and maintenance for both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Tuition fee scholarships will be automatically offset against your tuition fees.
You will see both your tuition fee and the award reflected on your financial statement.
Maintenance awards will be paid on the second last working day of each month directly into your nominated UK bank account by BACS.
Students must ensure that they are fully Registered, otherwise payment may be delayed.
Details of scheduled payments can be viewed on your financial statement.
New bank details and any amendments must be submitted online via MySaint - Under the tab "My Details and development" - "Student Finance" and "Manage my bank details for payments of scholarship and expenses".
If you do not have a UK bank account and want your payment to be sent to your bank outside the UK, email details of account number/IBAN/Swift/BIC and Account Name to finschol@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Foreign transfers may incur charges and can be impacted by exchange rate fluctuations.
Student staying in University accommodation can choose to have their maintenance award directly allocated against their accommodation fees by choosing this option while completing matriculation or by emailing finschol@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Accommodation fee awards will be automatically offset against accommodation fees where you are staying in University accommodation.
You will see both your accommodation fee and award reflected on your financial statement.
If you are not staying in University accommodation, your award will be paid to you as a maintenance payment.
Finance University of St Andrews
Postal Finance Operations Team Walter Bower House, Guardbridge St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work
Ask a question Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2720 or +44 (0)1334 46 2020

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money/internationalstudents:
You are here: University » Current Students » Money matters » International students
Information about money matters for international students.
US Funding Information
The ASC
(The Advice & Support Centre) 79 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AL
Tel: 01334 462020 Fax: 01334 461716
Email: money.advice@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money/statusletter:
The University prepares transcripts, status letters, degree certificates and Higher Education Achievement Reports for current students and graduates.
All module grades shown on student transcripts are calculated using the University's 20-point Common Reporting Scale .
If you are currently enrolled in a course at the University or graduated in or after June 2025, you can access your academic transcript, degree certificate and other official documents through the St Andrews Academic Documents service.
How to access your official documents
For questions about St Andrews Academic Documents, please email assessment@st-andrews.ac.uk .
For any other issues, email transcripts@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Find out how to get access to academic documents like your transcript, degree certificate and Higher Education Achievement Report.
Learn how modules are graded and what changes can be made when students have special circumstances.
Classification of undergraduate and postgraduate taught degrees.
The University recognises student achievement through prizes, awards and medals.
Various higher education organisations are involved in the management of student grades, qualifications and accreditations.
Learn how to access your transcript, degree certificate and Higher Education Achievement Report, if you studied or graduated before June 2025.
Exam timetables, preparation and guidance.
Third parties can verify degrees and attendance by registering to St Andrews Verification Services or Prospects Hedd.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/financial-support-staff-student-projects-ideas:
Updated on: 9 August 2024
Learn about the funding available to staff or students, individuals or groups, to support projects and other initiatives.
The University is committed to supporting and nurturing staff and student input and innovation.
There are several funding streams individuals or groups can apply to depending on the nature and purpose of their project.
Please note that each fund may have specific application cycles and deadlines.
Applicants must be current staff or students at the University of St Andrews .
Collaborative applications that involve both staff and students, or that involve collaborations between Schools and or Units, are particularly encouraged.
Applications that are led by individual students or groups of students need to specify how any relevant Students’ Association sub-committees or societies have been notified of, or involved in, the design of the project.
In addition, student applicants may consider discussing their plans with any relevant member or members of University staff ahead of submitting an application.
The University of St Andrews is committed to ensuring equality, celebrating and enhancing diversity, and creating an environment where all staff and students feel valued, respected and included.
The University has created an EDI project fund, where staff and students can apply for funds to support projects and other activities that enhance equality and inclusivity within and beyond the institution.
EDI Project Fund webpage , email ediprojectfund@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Students, staff and academics , depending on the fund.
The Entrepreneurship Centre uncovers and nurtures the entrepreneurial spirit in students, academics, staff, and non-University members .
Through programmes, one-to-one support, events, and competitions they provide tools, contacts, and funds to support you on your entrepreneurial journey and realise the commercial potential of your ideas or research.
They help you develop successful, scalable, and sustainable start-ups and spin-outs, delivering real-world value and benefits.
Varies depending on the competition.
Competitions run each semester with the latest information available online .
Entrepreneurship Centre , email entrepreneurship@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Open to both staff and students .
The Scottish Funding Council, in collaboration with the University of St Andrews, is offering vouchers designed to support and amplify groundbreaking ideas from our research community.
The Rapid Prototyping Centre (RPC) at Eden Campus can help with design services, 3D printing, PCB work, or other prototyping.
This fund aims to foster innovation by covering the costs of prototype development.
Approved projects receive a quote from the RPC, with a 10% discount on all labour and machine costs.
Materials are charged at cost, and additional funding can be added if required
Complete the online form to apply.
Include a concise summary your idea or project in less than 150 words.
There are 30 vouchers available.
Applications will close on 31 December 2024 and will be processed on a first-come, first-served basis.
£750
St Andrews Innovation , email e ntrepreneurship@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The project proposers must be either staff or students at the University of St Andrews .
Colleagues from across Schools and Units and all students are invited to take part.
Interdisciplinary projects are particularly encouraged.
The University’s Scotland’s Future Series project demonstrates our commitment to playing an active role in developing Scotland’s future by enabling our staff and students to contribute to and facilitate wider discussions.
It enables the University to take a position of ideas leadership on how to meet the challenges of the future.
The Principal’s Office has created a £35,000 fund to showcase the work of our staff and students to support projects to enhance discussion and debate on issues pertinent to Scotland’s future.
Projects can be wide-ranging, from think-pieces that could be developed into research papers, to hosting events and other engagement highlighting the work of staff and students to outside audiences including the local community.
Since it was launched in January 2022, 24 projects have been funded and outreach has included involvement in the Edinburgh International Book Festival as well as events in parliament.
Funding has also supported development of a podcast series which provides a showcase for many of the projects as well as a platform for discussion on the wider issues affecting Scotland and its future.
You can apply for funding of up to £1000 for small projects and up to £3500 for larger pieces of work that demonstrate visible interaction on a topic relating to Scotland’s future which engages audiences and stakeholders within and beyond the University.
Scotland’s Future Series webpages , email scotlandsfuture@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Collaborative applications from students and staff across the University of St Andrews are welcomed, particularly those that:
This funding supports applications that identify and meet the emerging needs of our increasingly diverse student community.
This year we have a particular focus on two aspects of the student experience:
£1000
Enhancement Theme webpages , email enhancementtheme@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Applicants must primarily be postgraduate students .
The development fund is also open to applications from staff proposing projects related to the development of postgraduate students.
Proposals are particularly welcome for projects which benefit postgraduate students in more than one School or Faculty.
The University of St Andrews and St Leonard’s Postgraduate College are committed to attracting and supporting the very best students, regardless of financial circumstances.
Scholarships reward academic excellence and are designed to help students support themselves during their time at university.
Wide range depending on the scholarship or award.
St Leonard’s College funding opportunities webpage , email stlc@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Current staff in professional service units.
The fund should be used by professional service units to gather feedback through activities such as focus groups and surveys.
The aim should be to enhance the services they provide to the student community, with a focus on creating a culture of inclusivity.
All applications will be considered once a month on a case-by-case basis.
£500
Student Feedback Incentives Fund webpage , email studexp@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Applications are welcome from any academic member of staff , whatever their contract type.
Professional services staff and students are welcome as collaborators or co-leads, provided there is an academic (co)-principal investigator.
Collaborations may include external partners, but the project outcomes must primarily relate to impact within the University of St Andrews.
Teaching, Learning and Higher Education Research grants support collaborative research with a strong evaluative element, and which has significant potential to enhance education and produce research-outputs.
Grants should consider one of the annual themes set by the CELPiE Steering group and membership.
£2500
CELPiE funding opportunities webpages , email ed-community@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Applications are welcome from all academic and professional services staff (regardless of contract type).
Research postgraduate students who teach are also welcome to apply, so long as attending the event is specifically to develop you as an educator.
This fund is not appropriate for PGR students seeking to develop their research skills.
The Community for Evidence-Led Practice in Education (CELPiE) Travel Fund grants can be used towards the costs associated with attending a single event relevant to evidence-led practice in education.
Attending the event must provide clearly identifiable benefits to your current role and should support you to enhance teaching and/or support for student learning and/or the student experience at St Andrews.
There must not be any comparable development opportunities already offered within the University.
CELPiE travel fund webpage , email ed-community@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Student Services staff .
Student Services have two different internally processed funds which members of staff within Student Services can bid into with project proposals and ideas.
£3000
Katharine Cundill, email khc51@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Individuals or groups of students .
The fund should be used to enhance the student experience for as many people as possible and create a culture of inclusivity.
Preference will be given to projects that support the greatest benefit to the student body.
Student Activities Fund webpages , email studexp@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Students , student groups or affiliated societies depending on the fund.
The Students’ Association provides several funds.
A full list is on their website.
Wide range depending on the award.
Student Association funding webpages , email union@st-andrews.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/rules/matriculation:
You are here: University » Current Students » Rules and regulations » Matriculation
Information and policies on matriculation.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/rules/selfcertification:
You are here: University » Current Students » Rules and regulations » Absence
Attendance is a basic assessment requirement for credit award, and failure to attend classes or meetings with academic staff may result in your being issued an Academic Alert for a module.
Unavoidable absences must be explained using a Self-Certificate of Absence form (via the self-certificate tasks on the ‘My details and development’ workspace on MySaint ) as soon as possible.
Students will need to complete a self-certification if they upload online exam answers later than the allocated exam upload time.
Find out more about upload deadlines and late submission on the submitting answers for online exams guidance page .
You are absent if you:
Further details can be found in the student absence policy .
To submit a self-certificate of absence please use the self-certificate tasks on the ‘My details and development’ workspace on MySaint .
Search our FAQs or submit your own question…
Tel: +44 (0)1334 462138

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/rules/appeals:
You are here: University » Current Students » Rules and regulations » Academic Appeals and Student Conduct
The University's complaints handling procedure
Complaints about the University (related to both academic and non-academic issues) are dealt with separately from student academic appeals and disciplinary issues.
For further details, please see the University's Complaints Handling Procedure or contact the Complaints Office by email to complaints@st-andrews.ac.uk or by telephone on 01334 462555.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/rules/termsandconditionsforstudentsinresidence:
For accommodation contracts starting from Monday 1 September 2025:
For existing accommodation contracts:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/rules/withdrawing:
You are here: University » Current Students » Rules and regulations » Withdrawing from your course

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/change-name-title:
Updated on: 11 February 2025
How to change your name, your title or pronouns and the difference between a ‘known as name’ and ‘official name’ and where each is used.
When you join the University you can tell us your title, known as name and pronouns so we know how you would like us to refer to you.
However, your student record will show your full, official name to match official documents such as your passport and birth certificate.
You can update your known as name, preferred pronouns or title at any time during your application to study at the University by emailing:
You can update your known as name, preferred pronouns or title at anytime during your studies by emailing: Undergraduate: registry-ug@st-andrews.ac.uk Postgraduate taught: registry-pgt@st-andrews.ac.uk Postgraduate research: registry-pgr@st-andrews.ac.uk
You can update your official name during your studies by providing evidence of a name change and completing the form.
You must use the name on your passport or birth certificate when you apply for a course and when you matriculate at the University.
This is your full official name and it should match any information held by external bodies.
To prevent delays:
To change your official name, please complete this online form ensuring you provide any supporting documentation.
Registry staff will contact you if they need more information.
You can use a new name in the UK without legally updating documents, however, the University has a responsibility to prevent fraud.
To change your official name on University information, you need to provide one of the following forms of evidence:
Check the Government website to learn how to change your name in the UK and how you can make your own ‘unenrolled’ deed poll.
When you request a change to your official name or title, the University will update your student record and your new name will appear in MySaint .
When any of these changes are made in your student record, the relevant University systems will update your name automatically.
If you need a replacement student ID card after changing your official name, email idcards@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Student ID cards currently display your known as name and surname.
All students can check that their name is correct and make any necessary changes before graduation.
The University does not allow retrospective name changes, including name changes after marriage or divorce when you have already completed your programme and have graduated.
This is to protect your degree certifications and ensure that your degrees can be verified after graduation.
Name changes after graduation may be made if:
Email studentrecordsadmin@st-andrews.ac.uk to request a change of name or gender after graduation.
If you completed a postgraduate research degree and want your new name to appear on your thesis, you should include this in your email and a document from the supporting documentation list.
You will be asked to return your original degree certificates and transcripts, and new ones will be issued.
This is the name that you want to be referred to during your studies.
It may be a shortened version of your first name, your middle name or something completely different.
The University will normally use your known as name during your studies, but formal documentation like your degree certificate will show your official name.
When you apply to study at the University, you can provide a ‘known as’ name and this will be transferred to your student record.
If you do not provide a ‘known as’ name, one will be created on your student record based on your first name.
The University will normally use your preferred first name when communicating with you, but formal documentation will show your official name.
Formal documentation includes:
When you apply to the University you will be asked to provide a title such as Mr, Ms or Mx or other academic, aristocratic, military, or religious titles.
You will have the opportunity to provide your preferred personal pronouns:
Known as names may be different to official names for a variety of reasons.
They may be:
Whether or not a formal official name change has been made, to ensure that the identities of transgender and non-binary members of our community are respected and affirmed, the University will avoid the use of names a person no longer wishes to use, sometimes called “deadnaming".
To support this aim, the University is developing its student systems and processes to use known as names as the default name, except in cases where the official name is required.
Most University systems do not use your title, but the student record system shows your title, known as name, official name and family name.
Systems using the known as name will usually show your known as name and then your last name if you have one, or your first name and last name:
Systems using the official name:
When communicating with you, we aim to use your known as name.
You may receive communications in your official name, but we will try to minimise this.
The following formal documents are likely to use your official name:
The official name is usually used with these organisations including:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/change-legal-sex-information:
Updated on: 7 February 2025
How to change the information held by the University about your legal sex and why you are asked for this information.
You’ll need to complete an online form to request changes to your gender identity or legal sex information , or both.
You are required to provide your legal sex (whether as defined at birth or following gender reassignment), but giving more details about your gender or gender identity is optional.
We encourage students to provide this data so that we have a better understanding of our student population.
Whilst the University does collect information on whether students consider themselves trans or to have a trans history and on whether your gender identity matches your sex as registered at birth, we do not collect or hold data on the gender students identify with.
The University collects information on legal sex, gender identity and transgender identity for equality monitoring purposes.
We are also required to provide some of this data to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and Education.
You will be asked to provide your preferred first name and personal pronouns, so that we know how to refer to you.
Learn how to change your name or title at University .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/undergraduate-senate-regulations:
Updated on: 3 March 2025
Information about rules for assessment, progression, awards and degree classification for undergraduate students.
Earlier versions of the regulations can be obtained by contacting education@st-andrews.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/rules/dataprotection:
You are here: University » Current Students » Rules and regulations » Data Protection
Principles of data protection
Data code partner institution study
Definition of data protection terms
Information about students that we supply to HESA .
How to ask for information about yourself.
The student core record
Research guidelines
University Data Protection Code - Students (PDF, 614 KB)
Requests for personal data by the Police or a similar third party for the purposes of the prevention or detection of crime or for taxation
Data Protection Co-ordinator University of St Andrews
Postal IT Services Butts Wynd St Andrews Fife KY16 9AL Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work 01334 46 4010/2776
Email: Work dataprot@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/tech:
Printing, car parking, recycling and other services and facilities available for all students.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/id-cards:
ID cards are managed by the campus card services team.
Your ID card allows you to:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/print-and-design:
Providing a full range of design and printing services.
A full range of printing services are available including academic printing, photographic material, stationery, and promotional and publicity material.
The University's skilled graphic designers can design, layout and prepare a wide range of publications.
Print and Design is ideally set up to print and bind your dissertation or thesis.
Six different forms of binding are available for reports, projects, dissertations and theses.
Your documents can be either laminated or mounted onto Polyboard to protect and reinforce them.
A high-end scanning service is available.
Documents, photographs and artwork, up to A3 size, can be scanned.
We can print A3 and A4 posters quickly and efficiently onto four different types of material.
Print and Design produce all stationery for Schools and Units, for example, letterheads, compliment slips and business cards.
The Print and Design team have many years' experience working for the University and are therefore an invaluable resource if you have any queries.
Print and Design St Katharine's West University of St Andrews 16 The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AX
Email: printanddesign@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3020

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/parking-permits/home.htm:
The University of St Andrews has its own online car share scheme and all staff and students who use cars to get to campus are encouraged to register.
You can save up to £1,000 per year by car sharing and save wear and tear to your car.
The more of us who join, the more options there are to share journeys.
You also choose how people contact you and your information is not passed on to any third party.
For more information, please visit .
Does your car sit idle in the driveway for days at a time?
Why not add your car to St Andrews' community car club to make money off your motor when you aren't using it?
The Go St Andrews Car Club is an affordable, convenient and safe way to share vehicles:
Find out more and sign up to Go St Andrews Car Club for free at https://gostandrews.co/parking_permit_car_club .
© 2025
                        University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/pgstudents/academic/advising:
« Back to Current Postgraduates
You are here: University » Current Postgraduates » Academic matters » Advising and matriculation
(for Staff)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/pgstudents/academic/theses:
You are here: University » Current Postgraduates » Academic matters » Theses
Research degree examinations at the University are overseen by the Associate Provost (Students) with the assistance of the Postgraduate Research Team (PGR Team – Student Journey) in the University’s Academic Registry, and are conducted in line with the Senate Postgraduate Resolutions and Regulations .
Consequently, most correspondence regarding the examination process will be conducted with the PGR Team by email to registry-pgr@st-andrews.ac.uk , unless otherwise indicated.
Any queries about research degree examinations and their associated processes should be directed to the PGR Team in the first instance.
Research students should submit their thesis electronically .
You will be able to use Moodle for submitting copies of your thesis for examination (including theses submitted for resubmission).
Please read the Guide for students - MSc (res/MSt (Res) examination page for detailed information on how to submit your thesis.
Please note that you will need to append a declaration to your thesis before submission.
You will be able to use the following template Master by Research Declarations (Word, 21 KB) .
You will need to submit final copies of your thesis to the St Andrews Research Repository .
For further information, please see the Guidance for electronic thesis submission page .
If you have any queries, please contact the PGR team at registry-pgr@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Please also read Procedures for submitting final copies of thesis (PDF, 379 KB) .
If you have a disability and require reasonable adjustments for your viva, please contact the Disability Team in Student Services at the earliest opportunity to arrange a discussion about what information should be included in your support plan.
Reasonable adjustments for students will be identified on a case-by-case basis and will consider all relevant information made available to the University, which may include medical evidence, a diagnostic report and an individual needs assessment.
Questions about support plans and reasonable adjustments should be directed to Ask a question and you can make an appointment by filling out the Student Services support form .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/pgstudents/academic/letters:
You are here: University » Current Postgraduates » Academic matters » Letters and templates

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/ceed/research-postgraduates-teach:
You are here: University » CEED » Research postgraduates who teach
The University's policy on Doctoral students who teach requires that " doctoral students employed to teach or assess receive appropriate development for this purpose ".
This includes completing the essential courses provided by the Centre for Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED) as well as " appropriate training and support throughout their time teaching " provided by the Schools.
CEED also provides additional optional support that postgraduates can access if they wish.
These options are all detailed in the information given below.
Research postgraduate students who are planning to do any teaching should familiarise themselves with the policy, and read through the information below.
This compulsory training must be completed before engaging in any teaching activities.
Workshops in August, September, October, December and January to accommodate different start dates.
AY24-25 semester 1 dates are now available.
The structure of the training changed slightly in AY23-24; but it still totals 7 hours.
The purpose of these essential courses is to ensure all postgraduate and other part-time teachers have a basic understanding of the Scottish higher education environment, awareness of relevant St Andrews policies and processes and the range of support available for students, and grounding in the basic skills you will need to teach groups of students and to mark student work effectively.
The full programme is a 7-hour commitment consisting of four components (three synchronous/live workshops and one self-study/online course).
These should be completed just before the start of the semester you will begin teaching.
As outlined in the Doctoral students who teach policy (section 4), Schools must check to ensure you have fully completed the essential training before a teaching contract can be issued.
Your first step is to register for the Essential courses for postgraduates who teach programme .
Doing this will also automatically give your School access to your completion status.
Next, complete the online self-study course and register your place on, then attend, the three live workshops (one from each component).
The full training programme only needs to be completed once during your time at St Andrews.
-----------------------
Once you are registered on the Essential courses for postgraduates who teach programme you will be able to find the dates of the live workshops, book your chosen dates, and keep track of your completion status across all four components.
Try to complete the self-study course before attending the live workshops, if possible.
If you are hoping to teach this academic year, check available workshop dates and book early .
If you fail to attend any of the live workshops for any reason, you will not be allowed to teach.
It is your responsibility to ensure you have completed all of the required components from the range of dates available.
Teaching at St Andrews: an introduction - any faculty (2.5 hrs)
Assessment and academic misconduct: an introduction - any faculty (2.5 hrs)
Student Services : supporting students and teachers (1 hr)
These courses run in August, September, October, and December/January.
There are no other dates available so be sure to check dates and book early.
Diversity in the workplace (1 hr)
The Diversity course component is externally hosted - the webpage gives instructions on how to enrol.
Follow the link, select 'All employees' and follow the instructions under the relevant sub-heading.
Every month completion data from this online self-study course is manually uploaded into PDMS so there will be a short delay until it shows as completed in PDMS.
------------------------------------
There are cross-faculty and faculty-specific versions of the Teaching and Assessment workshops at different times before the start of each semester.
You only need to attend one version of each of the compulsory workshops.
The same general principles are covered in each version, but the specific examples used will vary.
If you are unable to attend the workshop for your faculty, you can attend any of the other versions instead.
Student Services sessions are for all participants regardless of faculty; you can choose whichever instance best fits your schedule.
All of the live workshops have both online (via Teams) and in-person options.
The organisation of the content and the nature of the activities may vary slightly between the two formats, but both formats will cover the same overall content and are equivalent.
You are allowed to "mix and match" between delivery formats, ie you may attend some workshops online and some in-person.
You only need to complete the compulsory courses once during your degree (unless your School specifies otherwise).
The two in-person workshops delivered by CAPOD through semester 2 of 2019-20 academic year are equivalent to the programme offered by CEED which began semester 1 of the 2020-21 academic year.
Remember that your School is entitled to specify additional training requirements.
These workshops do not count towards "Successfully completed an institutional provision in teaching in the higher education sector accredited against the UK Professional Standards Framework", as they are not accredited against the PSF 2023.
However, it is possible to apply directly to Advance HE for an appropriate category of Fellowship based on the Descriptors of the PSF.
Usually, that would be another option in the same section of the application form, along the lines of “Recognised by Advance HE as an Associate/Fellow/Senior Fellow”.
See Applying for HEA/Advance HE Fellowship for more information on the support available.
Your School will provide an induction, a mentor, support with assessment and more, all outlined in the Doctoral Students who Teach policy.
As noted in the policy on Doctoral students who teach , your School must provide you with an induction outlining key contacts, marking scales, deadlines, etc (see the checklist in the policy document) as well as "appropriate training and support throughout their time teaching".
In addition to any subject-specific training (eg on use of lab equipment or procedures), all tutors and demonstrators are entitled guidance on marking before assessing student work for the first time.
Note that " every postgraduate teacher must be assigned a mentor to support them in their teaching role "; this is a named person who you can consult if you have any questions about any aspect of your teaching role.
You should be observed by an experienced staff member at least once during your first semester of teaching, in order to get constructive feedback on your teaching.
In addition to the essential courses which must be completed before teaching for the first time, CEED organises a range of optional workshops that may be of interest.
All of these workshops can be booked via PDMS, the online course booking system (link opens in new browser window).
Student Mental Health Toolkit for Teaching & Research Staff
Runs once per semester, open to research postgraduate students and academic/research staff.
Practical information for all teaching staff (including PGR teachers) and researchers on how to deal with student situations involving mental ill-health.
Specific learning difficulties: their impact in a higher education setting
Runs once in semester two, open to research postgraduate students, academic/research and professional staff.
Provides an overview of the different specific learning difficulties (SpLDs), such as dyslexia, dyspraxia and ADHD, and the typical characteristics associated with each condition.
Theories of Learning
Runs at least once per semester, open to research postgraduate students and academic/research staff.
Provides a brief introduction to various theories of how people learn (eg cognitive science, threshold concepts), with a focus on what this means for our teaching.
Core modules on the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP)
The PGCAP is aimed at staff at St Andrews who are engaged in university teaching or supporting student learning in a direct student-facing role, regardless of contract type or level of experience.
The aim is to give colleagues a supportive space in which they can develop as reflective practitioners in a collegiate, interdisciplinary community, exploring and developing different aspects of their practice in dialogue with peers.
While it is not currently possible for doctoral students who teach to enrol directly onto the PGCAP, it is possible to enrol onto individual modules if you have the necessary pre-requisites and there are places available.
These 15-credit, Masters-level modules will allow you to consider issues in more breadth and depth than is possible in the compulsory workshops, to further enhance your learning and teaching skills and strengthen your CV if you plan to remain in academia.
Completing one or more modules will give you a strong case for submitting an individual route application for a category of HEA Fellowship .
Individual module credits may also be recognised by other institutions towards their own Postgraduate Certificate requirements.
For more information see the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice page.
CEED can provide guidance on writing applications and funding to cover the cost of individual route applications.
For further information on funding and applying visit Applying for HEA Fellowship
Dr Heather McKiggan-Fee Head of Educational Development
CEED University of St Andrews Hebdomadar's Block St Salvator's Quad
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2141 Email: teachingdev@st-andrews.ac.uk
For staff
- Centre for HE Research - St Andrews Learning and Teaching Initiative (SALTI) - IT skills - Organisational Staff Development Services (OSDS)
For students
- IT skills - GRADskills (PGR) - Careers Centre
- PGRs as teachers policy
- Hourly paid casual teaching staff
- GRADskills programme

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/pg/pgfees:
How to pay your fees
Residence fees for most postgraduate accommodation options include:
The following exceptions apply:
Catering is included in the total residence fees for the following contracts and is not optional.
Main building: rooms 6, 7, 8, 9, 13.
3-5 South Street: rooms 8, 12, 17.
5 North Street : room 1.
11 North Street : rooms 1 and 6.
£10,810
15 meals per week Meals are not provided during intersemester break
Main building : room 12.
3-5 South Street : rooms 1, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19.
3 North Street : room 3.
11 North Street : rooms 2, 3, 5, 7, 8.
£11,610
15 meals per week M eals are not provided during intersemester break
Main building : rooms 3, 15, 16, 17, 18.
3-5 South Street : rooms 3, 6, 14, 20.
3 North Street : rooms 1 and 5.
7 North Street : room 1.
£12,009
Main building : rooms 1, 2, 10, 11.
3 North Street : rooms 2 and 6.
11 North Street : room 4.
£12,807
Main building : rooms 4, 5, 14.
3-5 South Street : room 5.
5 North Street : room 2.
7 North Street : room 2.
9 North Street : rooms 1 and 2.
£13,208
Main building : rooms 20 and 21.
3-5 South Street : room 2.
3 North Street : room 4.
£14,247
Main building : room 19.
£18,505
£10,762
14 meals per week Meals during Christmas vacation and summer are not included
Student rents are reviewed annually in a process of dialogue between the Students’ Association President and the Director of Residential and Business Services (RBS).
Following these discussions, it has been agreed that accommodation costs will be increased by 2.7% for the academic year 2025-2026.
Ben Stuart, RBS Director
Due to a rolling refurbishment programme, some postgraduate residents may be required to move during the summers of 2024 and 2025.
Please check your contract to confirm the date you are required to move out.
It is not normally possible to change this date, as rooms are required for incoming students.
If for academic reasons, for example, extension to dissertation submission date, you need to extend your stay for a short period, please email accommodation@st-andrews.ac.uk as soon as possible.
We cannot guarantee that accommodation will be available and you may be required to move rooms.
Extensions beyond the start of the next academic year are extremely unlikely to be available and you should make alternative arrangements.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study-abroad/at-st-andrews:
Have you got everything you need to submit your application?
Staff from the Study Abroad team are available to support you whilst applying.
Read more from students who have shared their experiences of studying abroad at St Andrews on our blog.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/advice/health/hospital-emergency:
Updated on: 28 March 2024
If you, or a person you are concerned about, are in immediate danger, call 999 (9-999 from an internal University phone).
If you are an international student, you’ll need to use a UK mobile SIM to access medical services.
See a list of the minor injuries that can be treated at the Minor Injuries Unit (MIU) at the St Andrews Community Hospital on Largo Road.
Only minor injuries can be treated at this hospital.
Minor injuries do not include mental health problems, stomach or chest pains, pregnancy-related problems, difficulties with your breathing, or health issues that you have already discussed with your doctor.
The MIU can only treat injuries that have happened in the last seven days.
If your injury is older than this, you need to make an appointment at the medical practice you are registered with.
To get help with a minor injury at the MIU at St Andrews Community Hospital:
The NHS explain that you can also call 111 when you need:
If you have problems getting to the MIU in St Andrews:
If you attend the MIU with a serious injury or condition, you will be referred to the Accident and Emergency (A&E) department at one of these hospitals:
To get more information on health conditions and treatments, or find your nearest medical practice, pharmacy, or sexual health clinic, visit the NHS inform website .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/find-medical-help:
Updated on: 22 May 2024
In an emergency, always dial 999 (9-999 from an internal fixed University phone).
For urgent medical advice anytime, call NHS 24 by dialling 111.
If you need to see a doctor, you can book an appointment with your GP.
See the register with a doctor guide if you have not already registered.
If you are an international student see the NHS’ healthcare for overseas students page for more information.
For help with mental health, also see the support for student mental health guide.
If you are feeling unwell, you can contact the Student Health Hub to find out where you can best get help:
Phone : +44 (0)1334 46 5777
You may be asked one or two questions about your symptoms.
The Student Health Hub is a confidential and non-judgemental service.
You can also find further information on NHS services for Student Health and if you become unwell and are unsure who you should contact, see Know Who To Turn To about different NHS services.
Pharmacists in the UK are qualified healthcare professionals.
They offer clinical advice and over-the-counter medicines for many illnesses.
A pharmacist may be able to help you, or will tell you whether you need to see a doctor or nurse.
For information about the illnesses pharmacists can help with and how to find your local pharmacist, read the NHS Pharmacy First web page.
NHS inform provides self-help guides , giving medical advice and suggestions about what you can do about your symptoms.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/events:
The Careers Centre organises a varied programme of skills workshops, networking events, employer and alumni presentations, and careers fairs throughout the year.
Attending these events is a great way to explore your career options, see what's out there, and develop your employability skills.
Events are open to students in all years and disciplines (unless otherwise stated).
All events on CareerConnect
If you are an employer or someone else who has a career-related event, the Careers Centre would love to hear from you.
Submit an event

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sport:
The home of sport and active health at the University of St Andrews.
Sports clubs : Find out more
Performance sport : Find out more
Volunteering and leadership : Find out more
Undergraduate scholar Sophia Issberner has made history for the University of St Andrews, claiming gold as part of the Great Britain Women’s Eight (W8+) crew at the 2025 FISU World University Games
Powerlifter Andrew Wallace delivered a commanding performance at the Scottish Classics Championship, competing in the fiercely contested -105kg weight class.
This June, the University of St Andrews proudly welcomed university golfers from around the globe to the 75th edition of the Boyd Quaich Memorial Tournament
The annual fixture between Scotland’s two oldest university rugby clubs returns to the HIVE Stadium, Edinburgh on Saturday 20 September.
Take a look back at the 2025 Saints Regatta, which is set to be one of the largest coastal rowing events in the UK this season and served as the first selection event for the GB Rowing Team.
The prestigious Boyd Quaich Memorial Golf Tournament returns for its landmark 75th edition at the Home of Golf this year, and for the first time since the tournament’s inception in 1946, female players will be invited to participate alongside their male counterparts.
The University have appointed local independent retailer Macron Sports Hub Dundee as its exclusive provider of team and leisurewear, with internationally renowned sports brand Macron, the University’s recognised sportswear partner.
Buy your Saints Sport kit online or in store today at the University of St Andrews Shop.
Saints Sport are proud to build new relationships with organisations that share common principles and ideals to those of the University so we can work together to form strong and mutually sustainable alliances as we strive ever to excel.
Partnership opportunities
Saints Sport University Park St Leonards Road St Andrews KY16 9DY Fife, Scotland, UK
Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2190
© The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.
Cookie preferences

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money/fees/feestable:
You are here: University » Current Students » Money matters » Fees » Tuition fees 2023-2024 to 2025-2026
Digital Documentation Registration Fee £20
Module grades, awards and academic documents
Home Taught (Band A)
Schools of Art History; Biology; Chemistry; Classics; Computer Science; Divinity; Earth and Environmental Sciences; English; History; Mathematics and Statistics; Medicine; Modern Languages; Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies; Physics and Astronomy; Psychology and Neuroscience
Department of Economics (Business School)
Graduate School
Home Taught (Band B)
School of International Relations; Departments of Economics; Finance;  Management
School of Earth and Environmental Sciences
Overseas Taught (Band A)
Schools of Art History; Classics; Divinity; English; History; Mathematics and Statistics; Modern Languages; Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies
Overseas Taught (Band B)
Schools of Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Earth and Environmental Sciences; International Relations; Medicine; Physics and Astronomy; Psychology and Neuroscience; Departments of Management; Economics; Finance
Overseas (Band B)
International Education Institute
School of Biology
Data Literacy for Justice (online)
Data Science (online)
Health Professions Education (online)
School of Divinity
£2,470 by module
£3,710 MLitt dissertation
£2,595 by module
£3,895 MLitt dissertation
£2,670 by module
£4,010 MLitt dissertation
£5,230 by module
£7,840 MLitt dissertation
£5,750 by module
£8,630 MLitt dissertation
£8,650 MLitt dissertation
School of International Relations
£2,245 by module
£4,490 MLitt dissertation
£2,355 by module
£4,720 MLitt dissertation
£2,475 by module
£4,950 MLitt dissertation
£4,540 by module
£9,070 MLitt dissertation
£4,990 by module
£9,990 MLitt dissertation
£5,000 by module
School of Modern Languages
* Please see Tuition fees for taught postgraduate programmes in the Modern Languages section for further information
School of Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies
(This is the full programme fee for a 2-year programme)
School of Psychology
Tuition fees for research postgraduates
PhD, MSc (Res), MSt (Res), EngD, MD, DProf
£5,006
Home/Overseas Research - DProf TESOL
Overseas Research
Schools of: Art History; Classics; Divinity; English; Geography and Sustainable Development (Arts); History; International Relations; Mathematics and Statistics; Modern Languages; Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies; and the Departments of Economics; Finance; Management
2025 entrants
2024 entrants
Schools of: Art History; Classics; Divinity; Economics and Finance; English; Geography and Sustainable Development (Arts); History; International Relations; Management; Mathematics and Statistics; Modern Languages; Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies
2023
entrants
2022
2021
Schools of: Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Earth and Environmental Sciences; Geography and Sustainable Development (Science); Medicine; Physics and Astronomy; Psychology
N/A
Schools of: Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Earth and Environmental Sciences; Geography and Sustainable Development (Science); Medicine; Physics and Astronomy; Psychology
Schools of: Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Earth and Environmental Sciences; Geography and Sustainable Development (Science); Medicine; Physics and Astronomy; Psychology
Schools of: Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Earth and Environmental Sciences; Geography and Sustainable Development (Science); Medicine; Physics and Astronomy; Psychology
(MPhil, MFA)
The MPhil and MFA are two-year programmes.
For fees for the first year, please see tuition fees for taught postgraduate programmes .
In the second year, fees will be charged in line with the equivalent PhD research fee for 2026-2027, which will usually be confirmed in early 2026.
Please see tuition fees for other research programmes above.
1 st extension
3 months - £418
6 months - £835
9 months - £1,253
12 months - £1,670
2 nd extension
6 months - £1,535
12 months - £3,070
3 months - £418
6 months - £835
9 months - £1,253
12 months - £1,670
6 months - £1,535
12 months - £3,070
For up to 6 months continuation after the end of standard fee-paying period and not pro rata.
In line with the Length of Study policy
For up to 12 months continuation after the end of standard fee-paying period and not pro rata.
Fee is payable per 6-month block and may increase annually.
PhD by portfolio - thesis submission fee (Staff route)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/environment/committees/utrec:
UTREC is responsible for overseeing the ethics review of the University's research activities involving human participants, their data or samples.
Information on how to apply for ethics review or guidance on ethical issues, can be found via the research involving humans web page.
A sub-committee of UTREC also conducts the ethical review of research funders - you can find more information on the ethical funder review application page .
UTREC is responsible for overseeing the University's research activity involving humans, their data or samples, including:
UTREC devolves ethical review to School ethics committees (SECs) .
SECs can escalate ethical applications to UTREC for review in full (see Meetings section below).
UTREC requires that:
UTREC monitors and audits review activity by regularly reviewing summaries of all applications given a review outcome by a SEC (see Meetings below).
A sub-committee of UTREC is also responsible for establishing and maintaining a list of ethically approved research funders, see the ethical funder application page .
Data protection law requires that the University (the data Controller) has valid legal bases to process both personal data and personal data with special characteristics.
In most instances, the legal bases for research in the University is that processing is necessary for research in the public interest (see the legal basis page for full details).
The Data Protection Act 2018 requires that the University demonstrate this public interest and meet the associated conditions i.e.
appropriate safeguards around data to protect the confidentiality of individuals.
The University does this through application of its governance measures, namely ethics review (which includes data management planning ).
This ensures that processing these types of data for research is safe, proportionate, and is in the public interest.
Ethical review must be free from bias and undue influence.
This requires that researchers or supervisors are not involved in the review of proposals for which they have a conflict of interest; including the researchers, participants, or organisations related to the proposal.
When applications are escalated to UTREC, UTREC members are responsible for actively identifying and declaring any conflicts of interest, and ensuring they are not involved in the review of any such proposals.
The minimum number of members required to be present at a UTREC meeting is four.
UTREC is an independent committee; as such it is chaired by an individual independent of the University research community (the UTREC Convenor).
The UTREC Convenor provides regular reports on key activities and issues to the Principal's Office .
The overall functioning and activity of UTREC is scrutinised by the Ethics and Research Integrity Assurance Group, which reports to the Audit and Risk Committee , who in turn report to University Court .
The UTREC office provides assurance information to research funders and others regarding the constitution and functioning of UTREC.
UTREC meetings occur approximately every eight weeks though this can depend on the academic calendar.
For specific dates and times, email the UTREC office at utrecmail@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Ethics application forms must be submitted to your School ethics committee (SEC) using the online ethics system.
If your School does not have a SEC, or if you are from a professional service Unit, email the UTREC office at utrecmail@st-andrews.ac.uk for guidance.
In certain cases, SECs are entitled to escalate an application to UTREC.
To do this, a SEC must contact the UTREC office at utrecmail@st-andrews.ac.uk to discuss the application.
Escalation should only be considered if the application involves:
UTREC welcomes input from Schools to inform the development of processes and guidance and sharing of best practice.
SECs can raise issues for discussion at UTREC by:
For both escalations or items for discussion, contact should be made with the UTREC office at least 8 days before the UTREC meeting.
For the SEC admin area, including the ethics database, visit the School ethics committees page.
The UTREC admin area is restricted access and for UTREC members only.
If you believe you should have access but are unable to log in, email: utrecmail@st-andrews.ac.uk
Contact your School ethics committee (SEC) using the details in the 'Contacts and members' section on the SEC page .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/postgraduate-senate-regulations:
Information about rules for assessment, progression, awards and degree classification for postgraduate taught and research students.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/foi:
The following legislation was introduced to promote greater openness and transparency providing a general right of access to all recorded information held by Scottish public authorities:
Information is made available either proactively through the University's publication scheme or in response to a request.
Where it is not possible to supply the information requested an explanation will be provided on why the information is exempt from release under the legislation.
To make a request for information, or for assistance in handling an information enquiry, please contact the Information Assurance and Governance team.
The University of St Andrews has adopted the Single Model Publication Scheme produced by the Scottish Information Commissioner who is responsible for enforcing the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002.
In adopting the Single Model Publication Scheme, a model 'Guide to Information' was developed and produced for the Higher Education sector which sets out:
Our Guide to Information Introduction which covers the following areas is currently under review.
The University’s Guide to Information is currently under review and will be made available online for download once this exercise is complete.
A copy of both our Guide to Information Introduction and Guide to Information can be made available on request by email to: foi@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Guides to Information for the wholly-owned subsidiary companies of the University are also available on request:
If you have any comments on the Guide to Information, wish to make a request for information or require assistance, please contact foi@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Information Assurance and Governance team Walter Bower House Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2776 Email: foi@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sustainability/circular-economy:
The University is moving from a linear to a circular waste management system, which means that we are reducing what we buy, reusing what we have, and recycling what we can no longer use.
Adopting a circular waste economy aligns with the Scottish Government’s targets and is key to becoming a carbon net-zero university by 2035.
A circular economy requires behaviour change.
You can help secure a sustainable future by:
We are taking small and effective steps to minimising waste:
We work with several initiatives to increase reuse within the University.
Whether you are a student, staff member, or community member, we can make reusing easier through:
If you are a staff member looking to give away an unwanted item, email the Environment team at environment@st-andrews.ac.uk .
We work with the British Heart Foundation, Skillshare and remanufacturing companies to increase external reuse:
The hero banner image on the sustainability home page “Herring Shoal with St Andrews Cathedral in the background” is copyright Tom Ashton, Xelect.
Biodiversity Energy and water Food Travel Circular economy
Environment team University of St Andrews Estates Woodburn Place St Andrews KY16 8LA
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3999 Email: environment@st-andrews.ac.uk
Facebook Twitter Instagram Blog

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/tech/datawarehouse:
« Back to Current Staff
You are here: University » Current Staff » Tech and administrative services » Data Warehouse
The University’s Data Warehouse is designed primarily for querying central administrative data.
It contains data taken from multiple source systems such as SITS, ResourceLink, Planon, Kinetics so that means it contains data about students, staff, accommodation, finance, our estate, etc.
Many students, staff and applications rely on the Data Warehouse and it is a vital part of our information landscape.
The Data Warehouse is administered by IT Services but the quality of its data is the responsibility of data owners and stewards.
Data owners and data stewards can request Data Warehouse changes by completing the online form .
Change requests might include, but are not limited to, the addition or deletion of source data or the modification of business logic in the Data Warehouse.
The Data Warehouse is available to anyone in the University who is required to use it.
Permission is granted on a need-to-know basis.
You can find out more about how to access the Data Warehouse here .
These are some of the services currently available:
If you are having problems accessing the Data Warehouse, you can find advice here .
If you find a bug in one of the Data Warehouse services, please report it to the IT Service Desk.
Access to personal data in the Data Warehouse is authorised only on a 'need-to-know' basis.
The data may only be used for the legitimate purposes of the University and in accordance with the reasonable expectations of students and staff, as set via privacy notices .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/self-service:
Please ensure all your details are up to date by logging in to self service to check your:
Payslips are available on self service two working days before payday.
For a list of pay dates and other useful information, visit the pay and pensions webpage.
Log in to self service
We are always interested to hear your comments.
Use the HR Services feedback form to tell us about your experience on the HR Self Service or any of the HR systems.
Get help from the right team if you are having problems:
Access to the HR Self Service is available for all current staff.
To learn how to use the system, read the following guides:
Only some Schools and Units are using the HR Self Service.
Speak to your line manager to check if you can use the system.
Sickness forms give managers a quick way to notify HR when a member of their team is off sick and for the member of staff to notify us when they return to work.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/edi/staff-networks:
Through these networks, members of staff also make a valuable contribution to making St Andrews “ a beacon of inclusivity ” by helping to inform the development of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) policies and strategies, and by raising awareness of key concerns and issues.
Staff networks offer an opportunity for members to:
Each network is run independently and will vary in format, timing and regularity of meetings.
Further information is provided below and in each individual network’s terms of reference document.
Staff networks at the University of St Andrews
Hi, I'm Paulette Nhlapo, Head of EDI at the University of St Andrews.
I'm Akira O'Connor.
I met people from across the University.
I got put in touch with people who have helped me in various aspects of my professional and personal life, and had a meeting to look forward to every few weeks.
My name is Maddy Haywood.
And I'm Rebecca Smith.
Maddy: I wanted to find a community that would be easy to talk to about the difficulties of being a full-time employee and autistic.
Rebecca: Our network includes staff with disabilities, including physical differences like mobility issues and limb loss, hidden or invisible differences including neurodiversity such as ADHD, autism, dyslexia and dyspraxia, learning disabilities, sensory differences or loss, hearing loss or deaf, and mental health and chronic illness conditions, whether or not you use the word disability to describe your differences.
Maddy: The network is a really lovely and supportive group of people.
From my own experience and talking with some others, I find that there is such imposter syndrome about joining the staff networks, so my encouragement would be, if you think you fit the description in any way, please come along.
Hi, my name is Kathryn Herschell.
There's an active Teams group and we have in-person meetups after work in a local cafe for socialising.
My name is Tim Childs.
For staff networks to continue to make a valuable contribution to the inclusive culture of the University, we rely on staff to be involved.
By joining networks, staff can add to discussions and draw on their experiences and ideas, attend events, and promote networks to colleagues.
The staff Black, Asian and Minority Ethnicity (BAME) Network offers an opportunity for minoritised staff to access a safe and supportive space to meet, network, celebrate and share experiences of being a person of colour at St Andrews.
There is usually at least one in-person (with an opportunity to join online) lunchtime meeting per semester.
The staff BAME network is open to anyone who identifies as being from a background that would be considered an ethnic minority within the UK.
There is a huge range of people that currently attend, including people who grew up in Britain, people who grew up overseas, and people who consider themselves bi-cultural or mixed race.
Please email diversity@st-andrews.ac.uk to be added to the network.
This network provides a safe and supportive space to meet, share experiences, opinions and concerns, and take action to promote equality for staff with disabilities.
The main objective is to host a supportive space for staff members to share information and methods to overcome challenges, celebrate successes, network, and participate in social activities.
The network wants to raise awareness and understanding to help create a more open, supportive and inclusive culture across the University for staff with disabilities.
This is done through communicating relevant key updates to members (for example, in relation to changes to laws and policy), and contributing to institutional discussions, initiatives, strategy and policies to ensure the voices of disabled staff are considered.
Working with other networks to support intersectional events and discussions is also important to the network.
There is usually a one-hour meeting every six weeks, either in the morning or at lunchtime.
Not everyone who would qualify as having a disability under the Equality Act 2010 will identify as disabled.
Some may see themselves as neurodivergent or disabled by their environment using a social model of disability.
Our network includes staff with disabilities, whether or not you use the word disability to describe your differences, including:
Please email disabilitynetwork@st-andrews.ac.uk to join the network or complete the new members form.
You will then be added to the mailing list and, if you agree, the Microsoft Teams site.
Please also email if you have any questions.
All internal and external enquiries about the staff with disabilities or neurodiversity network should be made to the network leadership team by emailing disabilitynetwork@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The network is currently co-chaired by three members of staff:
First established in 2016, the University’s LGBTQI+ employee network is a member-run affinity group that works to support, advocate for, and celebrate the lives and experiences of LGBTQI+ colleagues.
The network works to develop an inclusive and equitable workplace for people of all genders and sexualities working at the University.
LGBTQI+ employee network terms of reference (Word)
The network holds three core values that guide the development of its objectives, actions and role within the University community.
These values are ‘advocate’, ‘celebrate’ and ‘educate’.
The network organises regular meetings, activities and resources for members.
Current and forthcoming events and activities include:
All LGBTQI+ University employees can be members.
This includes students who are directly employed by the University (for example, graduate teaching assistants, research assistants).
Agency workers and contractors are not eligible for full membership; however, agency workers and contractors may attend selected network events at the invitation of a full member of the network.
All membership requests are handled confidentially via the network’s private email account.
The network does not make information regarding its members available to non-network members or the general public.
As the network operates primarily via a private Microsoft Teams group hosted on the University’s Microsoft 365 service, the members of the network are visible to each other.
Details of the network’s membership, including any personal information, will be held and handled by the current role holders of the leadership team only.
The leadership team will handle all personal information in line with the University’s privacy and data protection policies .
Request to join by emailing lgbtqiemployeenetwork@st-andrews.ac.uk .
New members will receive a welcome email and will be introduced to existing members in the network’s private Microsoft Teams site.
If you do not wish to have a new member introduction post made when you join the network, please include this request in your membership request message.
All internal and external enquiries about the LGBTQI+ employee network should be made to the network leadership team by emailing lgbtqiemployeenetwork@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The network will be led by an elected leadership team of three co-chairs, a network secretary, and up to three leadership team members.
Pending the election, there are two interim network coordinators:
The network provides a community hub for members to share knowledge, experiences and resources, as well as representation at institution level on issues impacting the lives of parents and carers both inside and outside the workplace.
The network will:
Formal meetings will be held twice a year, with the aim to schedule other informal events during the year.
The network welcomes all staff who are:
Please complete this form to join the network mailing list, MS Teams site or both.
Please email parentsandcarers@st-andrews.ac.uk if you have any questions.
The network is currently co-chaired by two members of staff:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/university-strategy/diverse:
We will make St Andrews a beacon of inclusivity, placing diversity and equality at the centre of everything we do and creating an environment in which all can flourish and realise their potential.
Diversity and inclusivity are essential to a thriving society and to our success as a forward-looking, world-class university.
We will excel if we can attract and retain talented people with a broad range of backgrounds and if we value and mobilise the abilities of all of our staff and students.
The University has been making a determined shift in its culture to ensure that everyone – our students, staff, and alumni – can thrive as part of the St Andrews community.
Inclusivity is about valuing difference and enabling everyone to contribute.
It requires always being willing to learn and to change and we will work this self-reflection into our institutional identity through dialogue and openness.
Diversity and inclusivity underpin delivery of our strategic themes.
Being world-leading requires us to attract and retain the best talent, wherever it is found.
Seizing the opportunities of the digital age requires us to ensure we develop skills and support on-going learning in step with technological advancements; and fostering entrepreneurialism and supporting sustainability require the creativity and effective problem solving that come from the ability to draw on a wide range of experiences, insights, and diversity of thinking.
We will:
We will create a digital identity, culture, and capacity that enables us to seize the opportunities which digital transformation can bring to our activities and ways of thinking, extending our ambition for our future as a leading global university.
Continue reading
Our MSc in Digital Health – run by the Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies - teaches the theoretical underpinnings of digital health, and examines how digital data is integrated in clinical decision making.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/new-staff:
Before you arrive, you'll receive an email with your University account details.
Once you've activated your account, your username will grant you access to your work laptop, your email and other University systems.
Find out about any upcoming planned maintenance on the IT Services Twitter or check service status.
You get access to Microsoft 365 for free as a University staff member, including Office applications and productivity tools.
Check if your colleagues are available for meetings with the scheduling assistant in Outlook or look up their telephone number in active directory.
The University expects staff members to be proactive to safeguard your account and data.
Add an extra layer of security to your account by setting up a second factor, like the Duo smartphone app.
Let the IT security team investigate fraudulent emails by forwarding them to phishing@st-andrews.ac.uk.
If you've joined a professional service unit in the past month, IT Services will get in touch to organise a one-to-one induction.
If you're connected to public wifi, use the virtual private network to securely access University resources.
Password self-service lets you reset your password yourself if you forget it later.
Report problems and request changes to your staff card using online forms.
Let us know if you come across data which needs to be updated and find out what you can update yourself.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/purchasing:
University staff are able to request hardware and software they require from IT Services.
Staff should fill out and submit the relevant order form listed below.
Once an order has been placed, it can be tracked using IT Self Service .
To order products which are not listed or to discuss individual requirements, staff should contact the IT Service Desk .
We'll email you when your order has been delivered.
If it's over £100, we'll also place an asset tag on it when it arrives.
An asset tag is a sticker containing a barcode and number which we may need if you log a support call in future.
IT Services pay for most personal work equipment for Professional Services staff.
Check to see if your order is part of our standard technology for staff purchased by IT Services.
IT Services provide an IT hardware set up bundle which comes with standard system memory, processor and storage.
If you have additional requirements, contact the IT Service Desk to discuss your requirements.
The University provides hybrid workers with a single monitor, keyboard and mouse to use at home.
The University offers Staff Windows devices as a standard so everyone can use the same AV and network facilities.
If you require an Apple product, staff should contact IT Services for a discounted rate.
IT Services will be in touch to confirm your order.
Once placed, you can track it in IT Self Service .
Before you place your order, consider whether you'll need to purchase adaptors for network and AV connections.
Staff should use the appropriate order form to request new hardware or software.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/av-support:
IT Services maintain the audio-visual (AV) equipment in centrally bookable rooms.
Check the room booking system to see what equipment is in each lecture theatre or seminar room.
Contact the IT Service Desk to request help when setting up your teaching or meeting room.
If you're hosting an event at the University, see AV support for conferences and events .
Use the control panel to choose what you'd like to display on the projector
There are two types of control panel in teaching rooms, one with a touchscreen and one with buttons.
image
Every classroom has a PC for presenters to use.
If you're working on your presentation beforehand, save it to your home drive or OneDrive so you can easily access it when you arrive at the classroom.
Presenter view lets you view your notes on the classroom PC, while the audience views the notes-free presentation on the display screen.
You can find out more about it on the Microsoft Office website .
Use the document camera to display printed documents to the projector.
In most rooms, you'll find one or a combination of the following:
When you're finished, turn off the mic and put it back on charge.
If you're having any AV issues, phone +44 (0) 1334 46 3674.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/security/multi-factor-authentication:
The first factor will be your University password.
The second will be one of the Microsoft 365 verification methods, like a code through the authenticator app or a text message.
Students are prompted to register their smartphone when they sign into Microsoft 365 for the first time.
You can set up the following methods:
Let IT Services know and they'll help you log in.
The second will be using a mobile authenticator app called Duo Mobile .
Y ou can download it for free from your mobile app store.
Check for updates on your smartphone before setting up multi-factor authentication.
The Duo Mobile app won't download if your phone's operating system is out of date.
Next time you sign in to Microsoft 365 or a University resource which sits behind single sign-on, you'll be given a few options to choose from to verify your identity.
These are:
A Duo Push is the fastest way to authenticate.
Access applications in one tap and deny fraudulent attempts using the Duo Mobile app.
You can register for multi-factor authentication without a smartphone in the following ways.
These Duo guides may be useful to you:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/new-staff/work-from-home:
Use Microsoft 365 to communicate with colleagues and the virtual private network to access University resources.
If you haven't attended the following sessions, IT Services and CEED (Learning Technology) have made them available to watch online:
Read the latest IT news for further guidance on cyber security and other working from home tips (University sign-in required).
When staff plan to work from home, they should take their:
If you have been issued a headset, take this home as well.
Otherwise, your laptop has a built-in camera, microphone and speakers which you can use.
Use your University email to receive corporate communications, make enquiries or follow-up with colleagues and students.
Schedule meetings as usual through Outlook, including online meeting details using Teams.
This means recipients can join remotely.
You can invite anyone to these meetings, including externals and flexible workers.
Use Teams to call other staff members.
If you need to call an external, invite them to a Teams meeting .
Send an instant message to start a conversation with colleagues.
Use Teams to make audio and video calls, share your screen and start a group chat.
Go through the Microsoft Teams Demo: Meetings and chats if you haven't used this before.
Make sure your notifications are turned on so you don't miss anything.
Contact IT Services to enable Teams for staff members on flexible contracts.
Teams isn't usually available for them but IT Services can enable it on request.
If you haven’t already, create a Team and invite the people you work with to join.
A Team keeps conversations and files in one place and allows you to create different channels to suit your tasks.
Teams should open and sign in when you start your computer.
If it doesn’t, please sign in so colleagues can contact you.
If it’s not installed in your device, install it from the Microsoft website .
If you haven't used Teams before, try the interactive demo first.
The University's VPN is called Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client .
You can check if it's installed by searching 'Cisco' in your Start Menu.
If it isn't already installed, you can download it from the Software Centre.
Before you connect to the VPN, make sure:
Move frequently used files to OneDrive or Teams whilst working from home so you don't need to connect to the VPN, rather than downloading them to your device.
The University recommends that you keep strictly confidential information in your network drives.
Staff members using their personal laptops or PCs when working from home should:
Use Apps Anywhere and Software Centre to find what you need.
Use the University app store to access software for research and teaching.
Revisit the information security training to understand what cyber threats exist and how you can protect yourself.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education:
The St Andrews approach to learning and teaching is a mix of traditional and new.
We help develop essential knowledge and theories while providing opportunities to advance practical uses for the skills students acquire.
A collection of contacts across Schools, including Directors of Teaching, Heads of Schools and more.
The University regularly reviews its academic offering through a range of internal and external review processes.
The governing bodies which influence University policy and ensure teaching standards are being met.
Blog posts from educators and Schools about best teaching practice, case studies, and experiences.
The latest Education Updates including emails containing key information that have been sent out from Education and Student Experience.
Information and guidance about results reporting, exams, and assessment.
Funding and awards available to staff in recognition of excellence in learning and teaching.
Find out about the education strategies, policies and supporting documentation which help deliver world-leading teaching.
A collection of resources and information to support teaching at St Andrews.
View the web timetable, find out about timetable preparation, and book rooms.
An ongoing research project led by an academic supervisor and made up of a team of students from any level of study.
Find out about your timetable and online exam updates.
A collection of digital resources to support remote study.
Advice and support, policies and procedures, changes in circumstances, and other useful information for students.
Information and support to help students throughout their studies.
Includes mentoring, study skills and online resources.
Earn credits and receive a grade for an ongoing research project led by an academic supervisor.
Develop skills to generate ideas which can lead to venture creation.
View the sustainability curriculum for each School and discover modules involving sustainability.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education/staff/academic-monitoring:
These reviews are intended to continuously evaluate and improve the learning and teaching experience for current and future students.
The QEF is an enhancement-led approach to monitoring quality across the Scottish higher education sector.
Each academic School is required to submit an annual report reflecting on their previous year’s teaching.
URLT is a thorough review of academic quality and standards which takes place every six years.
An enhancement-led review carried out by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) Scotland.
MEQs allows students to provide anonymous feedback on all their University modules.
Enhancement themes are Scotland-wide initiatives that aim to improve the learning experience of students in higher education.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education/staff/assessment:
Education and Student Experience oversees exam and assessment strategy and policies within the University and is supported by Registry.
Registry is responsible for running exam diets, module grade results reporting and degree classification processes.
How to submit module results and a grade descriptor chart.
The University uses a 20-point common reporting scale for grades.
Information about the external examining system and appointing and paying external examiners.
Assessment changes under dual mode delivery for the 2021-2022 academic year.
Exam information, guidance and support for students.
Final degree classifications for Masters programmes rely on a classification algorithm.
Good academic practice information and guidance.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education/staff/funding-awards:
There are several awards available to staff for recognition of excellence in learning and teaching and to support innovation and enhancement of teaching practice.
The Proctor’s Office supports developments in learning and teaching which are innovative, sustainable, collaborative and contribute to the delivery of the University's Education and Student Experience Strategy.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study-abroad/global-education:
The University offers courses delivered in collaboration with other institutions around the world.
Find out what courses you could take both at St Andrews and abroad.
Keep up to date with the most recent global education news by following the Global Office blog .
Explore your intellectual interests in another culture and build credit towards your degree programme at home.
Visiting students can apply via our Exchange programme or International Study Abroad Programme.
We offer a number of exciting opportunities to broaden your academic experience by spending a semester or year abroad for credit as part of a St Andrews degree programme.
Our Collaborative programmes with selected partner institutions provide fully-integrated and unique learning experiences with an international dimension.
Our undergraduate-level courses give students from around the world the opportunity to explore different disciplines and earn academic credit.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education/vip:
Are you a student looking to boost your employability as part of your degree?
Are you an academic staff member keen to explore research-led teaching?
We welcome you to explore Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP): the modules with a difference.
VIPs are modules with a difference!
A Vertically Integrated Project (VIP) is an ongoing research project led by an academic supervisor and made up of a team of students from any level of study (the ‘vertical’ aspect).
The team of students can come from different subject areas with diverse backgrounds and skills across both arts and science.
Students can earn credits and receive a grade for the project.
They may be able to remain on the project for several semesters if this can be accommodated in the curriculum.
"Participating in a VIP has not only developed my skills in academics but as a young professional as well.
The interpersonal and technical skills you gain are easily transferable into the workplace, and I found it has really given me a boost in my applications and job interviews as well." - Emma, University of St Andrews Business School
"The main benefit of VIPs is the collaborative relationship they can foster between students and faculty.
This stems from the developing nature of the research projects, which ideally gives students ownership over unique and academically valuable work which they have been able to help shape." - Jamie, English and International Relations
Want to boost your skills next academic year?
Student applications for select VIP projects for 2025-2026 are now open!
Please check the 'Projects' tab below for further details and the application form.
Applications will be considered on a rolling basis, so we recommend applying early.
Staff applications are open for new VIPs.
Please click on the 'Information for Staff' page below for further details and the application form.
See a list of projects open for application and those currently running.
Find out about enrolling on a VIP project, benefits, and funding opportunities.
Information for academic supervisors on managing a VIP team and credit structure.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/collections:
Explore the University of St Andrews' photographs, artworks, objects, manuscripts, muniments and digitised rare books.
University Collections at St Andrews brings together archives, rare books, photographic, art and museum collections.
These active collections are:
The University Collections search does not currently include rare books.
Search the library to find information on rare books.
Please be aware that there are descriptions and images of items in the records which may be inappropriate, outdated, sensitive or offensive.
However, to understand past perceptions we include this information for its historic value, demonstrating the attitudes and language contemporary to the creation or description of the item.
It does not reflect the current attitudes of University of St Andrews Libraries and Museums.
Find out more about our work and research directly from our staff and collaborators.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/pay-dates:
The cut-off dates listed are submission deadlines for payroll processing.
Please contact your local administrator or line manager for details of any internal cut-off processing dates, as these may fall prior to the payroll dates provided below.
Thursday 28 August 2025
Thursday 30 January 2025
Friday 10 January 2025
Tuesday 14 January 2025
Thursday 27 February 2025
Monday 10 February 2025
Wednesday 12 February 2025
Friday 28 March 2025
Monday 10 March 2025
Wednesday 12 March 2025
Tuesday 29 April 2025
Tuesday 8 April 2025
Thursday 10 April 2025
Thursday 29 May 2025
Thursday 8 May 2025
Monday 12 May 2025
Friday 27 June 2025
Monday 9 June 2025
Wednesday 11 June 2025
Wednesday 30 July 2025
Tuesday 8 July 2025
Thursday 10 July 2025
Friday 8 August 2025
Tuesday 12 August 2025
Monday 29 September 2025
Monday 8 September 2025
Wednesday 10 September 2025
Thursday 30 October 2025
Wednesday 8 October 2025
Friday 10 October 2025
Thursday 27 November 2025
Monday 10 November 2025
Wednesday 12 November 2025
Tuesday 30 December 2025
Thursday 4 December 2025
Monday 8 December 2025

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/money/salaries:
You are here: University » Human Resources » Pay and Pensions
The grade, pro rata spinal point with value and hourly rate can be viewed for each post you hold.
In HR Self Service, click on your "Account" icon (your image at the top right) and select "View My Details".
Then expand the Appointment History section and select the "i" icon next to the Pay Grade field.
A pop-up window will appear detailing any changes to your grade.
Use the expand arrows to view the spinal point value and hourly rate for each entry.
Our team provides the pay and pensions services to the University.
We are open to all enquiries and we welcome requests for advice.
We are based in the Walter Bower House, Eden Campus.
Please contact us to discuss any of the above items or for advice on any pay or pensions issues.
Our opening hours are from 8:45am to 5pm.
Our aims are to provide:
Please use one of the following email accounts to send your query or documents:
monthly-ns@st-andrews.ac.uk – please use this account for personal pay queries, all other queries please send to the appropriate email address detailed below.
salaries-absence@st-andrews.ac.uk - please use this account if you have a query about sickness absence and for submitting Part A and B self-certifications.
salaries-external@st-andrews.ac.uk - please use this account if you have a query regarding all non employees.
e.g., Off Payroll.
ts-salaries@st-andrews.ac.uk - please use this account for submitting your timesheets, and queries regarding timesheets.
salaries-cc@st-andrews.ac.uk - please use this account for submitting flexible worker assignments along with nationality documents, and queries regarding flexible worker assignments.
In addition to pay and pensions, we are also responsible for the following functions:
Information about the University's two pension schemes
Information and resources for employing Flexible Workers
Information and resources for claiming expenses
Information about payments to non-employees of the University
Information about Self Service
Information about Childcare Vouchers
The Pay and Pensions team
Human Resources University of St Andrews
Postal Pay and Pensions Walter Bower House Guardbridge St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Please use the feedback form to provide feedback and share comments on your experience of the HR Service at the University, including any of our HR Policies.
Please use the policy feedback form to provide feedback on the HR policies currently under review until Friday 18 April 2025 .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/money/fulleconomiccosting:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Money matters » Full economic costing
Full Economic costing (FEC) was introduced to the HEI sector to improve the sustainability of University Finances and to ensure that Research projects in particular are accurately costed and a suitable price then charged.
The Government and Funding Councils for some time have been concerned that the sector has not been pricing adequately for work and that this was leading to serious weaknesses in sustaining the long-term infrastructure.
Significant changes include the calculation of Estates and Indirect costs to a project and the inclusion of a cost for a Principal Investigator's (PI) time to cover the less obvious costs of the project.
Research Councils have currently agreed to pay 80% of FEC though they hope to move to 100% sometime in the future.
There are four major parts to an application under FEC -
For a more in depth description of FEC please see the Joint Costing and Pricing Steering Group web site.
Finance Department University of St Andrews
Postal The Gateway North Haugh St Andrews Fife KY16 9RJ Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work 01334 46 2513
Email: Work trac@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/money/procurement:
« Back to Money Matters
You are here: University » Current Staff » Money matters » Procurement
Procurement's primary objective is to ensure the University is obtaining Best Value for money whilst supporting the extensive and wide ranging requirements of all our teaching and research activities within the University.
The Buyer Network is an internal forum which works together with the goal of advanced procurement.
Supplier information and routes to doing business in the Higher Education sector.
Find out about tendering : the process, responsibilities and timescales .
To drive the embedding and consistent application of best Procurement practice and to increase the sustainable Value for Money from the University non-pay expenditure - through Advanced Procurement across the Schools, Units and Residences of the University of St Andrews.
See the full Procurement Strategy and Action Plan 2024 (PDF, 532 KB)
Procurement University of St Andrews
Postal Walter Bower House Eden Campus St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work 01334 462523
Email: Work procurement@st-andrews.ac.uk
© 2010 The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/policy/hr:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Policy and governance » Human resources policies, guidance and forms
Information, guidance and policies relating to the employment of staff (see also the Recruitment and Supporting and managing  staff sections).
Information, guidance and policies on all aspects relating to equality, diversity and inclusion .
Information and policies regarding families and employment.
Information, policies and procedures on grading, regrading and promotion of posts.
Information, guidance and policies on health and wellbeing.
Information, guidance and policies on all matters relating to requesting and managing time off work.
Information, guidance and policies relating to all aspects of recruiting and selecting staff.
Information and policies relating to retirement including links to the University's pension schemes.
Information and policies relating to salaries, pay and benefits.
Information, guidance and policies for managers of staff.
Human Resources
University of St Andrews Walter Bower House Guardbridge St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1334 463096
HR Business Partner HR.general@st-andrews.ac.uk (for general enquiries)
HR Policy Webpages

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/policy/safety:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Policy and governance » Safety and well-being policies

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/terms/data-protection:
This page lists all of the University's privacy and data protection policies and notices.
The protection of personal information collected and processed by the University is legislated through the European and UK legislation, notably through the Data Protection Act 1998 (“the DPA”) and through rules on direct marketing activities as provided by Privacy and Electronic Communication Regulations .
The University takes its obligations to protect personal information and to uphold the rights and freedoms of individuals seriously.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/linkedin-learning:
Updated on: 30 April 2024
Learn how to gain access to LinkedIn Learning courses in business, technology and creative disciplines.
All staff at the University of St Andrews have free access to LinkedIn Learning, a comprehensive online platform offering expert-led video courses in business, technology, and creative disciplines.
With professionally produced courses and personalised recommendations, LinkedIn Learning supports continuous professional development across a wide range of subjects.
You can complete courses at your own pace, track your progress, and, if you choose, display completed courses and acquired skills on your LinkedIn profile.
To start using LinkedIn Learning, activate your account .
We recommend starting with the introductory course How to use LinkedIn Learning , which will become available once your access is activated.
For technical support or help with activation, refer to:
LinkedIn Learning help centre
Log into LinkedIn Learning with an enterprise licence
Staff can access LinkedIn Learning for the duration of their employment at the University.
Courses are available online and on the free mobile app for Android and Apple devices.
When activating your account, you can choose from the following options:
Link your LinkedIn Learning account to your personal LinkedIn profile.
Access LinkedIn Learning without linking to a personal LinkedIn profile.
Use the platform without having a LinkedIn profile at all.
Linking your profile is optional and can be reversed at any time.
You can access LinkedIn Learning with or without a LinkedIn account.
Many courses offer certificates , which can be added to your LinkedIn profile if desired.
LinkedIn Learning supports a self-directed approach to development and complements the University's existing training provision.
Key benefits include:
Greater accessibility to training resources.
Support for competency-based learning and digital skill development.
Alignment with the University’s digital strategy.
Enhanced tools for managers and staff to collaborate on personal development plans.
Curated learning pathways tailored for St Andrews staff, such as management, leadership, and sustainability.
When you activate LinkedIn Learning, your name and staff status are shared with LinkedIn.
If you link your personal LinkedIn profile, the University’s LinkedIn administrators can view your learning activity, including your completed courses, but no other personal LinkedIn data is shared.
You are in control of what information is visible to your LinkedIn network.
If you prefer to keep your learning activity private, choose not to link your LinkedIn profile or access the platform without one.
All learning data is securely stored on LinkedIn servers, which may be located both within and outside the UK.
More information is available from LinkedIn security and LinkedIn subprocessors .
For further details, see:
Connecting your LinkedIn profile
LinkedIn user agreement
LinkedIn privacy policy
LinkedIn Learning privacy information

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/pdms:
Programmes comprise a set of courses arranged into themes.
No booking required Each individual workshop requires you to book a place through PDMS.
You do not need to 'complete' the programme (the workshops all complement each other, but are offered on a stand-alone basis).
Audience Academic staff, Research staff, Research supervisors Courses 3 Development, 6 PGR Supervision, and 18 Teaching courses
No booking required
Each individual workshop requires you to book a place through PDMS.
Booking required The Dignity and Inclusion Portfolio DIP is a programme of training and resources which addresses issues related to equality diversity inclusion and wellbeing in the workplace.
Audience Academic staff, Professional staff, Research staff, Research supervisors Courses 8 core, and 15 optional courses
Booking required
The Dignity and Inclusion Portfolio DIP is a programme of training and resources which addresses issues related to equality diversity inclusion and wellbeing in the workplace.
Booking required Audience Academic staff Courses 4 core
Booking required This 7-hour commitment consists of four components to be completed at the start of the semester teaching is to begin.
It must be fully completed before engaging in any teaching activities and only needs to be completed once.
Audience External, PG research Courses 3 (live) Assessment component, 1 (live) Student support component, 3 (live) Teaching component, and 1 (self-directed) Diversity component courses
This 7-hour commitment consists of four components to be completed at the start of the semester teaching is to begin.
No booking required GRADskills is operated by IELLI for St Leonards College and supports the development of research postgraduate students to improve their research capability and widen their employability inside and outside of academia.
Audience PG research Courses 7 Theme 1) Getting started, 5 Theme 2) Carrying out my research, 5 Theme 3) Dealing with my data, 2 Theme 4) Conferences, networking, and public engagement, 26 Theme 5) Writing and publishing (in various media), 8 Theme 6) Teaching, and 6 Theme 7) Finishing up: what's next?
courses
GRADskills is operated by IELLI for St Leonards College and supports the development of research postgraduate students to improve their research capability and widen their employability inside and outside of academia.
Booking required MSkills is a development programme specifically for Masters students.
For more information please visit the MSkills webpage: MSkills Audience PG taught Courses 11 Academic, 5 Creative and entrepreneurial, and 5 Digital courses
MSkills is a development programme specifically for Masters students.
For more information please visit the MSkills webpage: MSkills
No booking required Saints Professional Development is a programme of skills development workshops and activities to help you during your undergraduate degree.
Audience UG Courses 3 Communication and Engagement, 4 Confidence and leadership, 4 Creative and Critical Thinking, and 2 Data and Digital Skills courses
Saints Professional Development is a programme of skills development workshops and activities to help you during your undergraduate degree.
Booking required This programme will run as 4 consecutive day sessions Participants will be emailed the dates set for attending.
Audience Academic staff, Professional staff, Research staff Courses 5 core
This programme will run as 4 consecutive day sessions Participants will be emailed the dates set for attending.
Booking required This workshop series is an introduction to the complex world of academic publishing and is designed to give writers in a variety of disciplines practical experience in getting their work published in peer-reviewed journals.
We will use the core text Writi Audience PG research Courses 4 Block 1: First steps in writing an academic article, 5 Block 2: Strengthening your academic article, and 3 Block 3: Editing and submitting your article courses
This workshop series is an introduction to the complex world of academic publishing and is designed to give writers in a variety of disciplines practical experience in getting their work published in peer-reviewed journals.
We will use the core text Writi
© 2020 The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No: SC013532

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/essentials:
You are here: University » OSDS » New staff learning portal
The following include the University induction events which must be attended by all new staff.
There are also additional events that should be considered.
University induction events
Mandatory training
Useful resources
‌ People management pathway
New staff induction checklist (Word, 88 KB)
‌ Access the University Staff Handbook (PDF, 2,113 KB)
Staff ID card - email ID card photo ahead of start date .
This will be issued on your first date of employment by HR.
University email account is automatically activated on the morning of your first day.
Any problems contact IT Helpdesk (3333).
IT induction session - New staff will receive an invitation from ITS within two weeks of their employment to attend an ITS induction session .
If you have not received this invitation, please contact itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk
Book your place on both the University new staff induction and the Staff Essentials.
For further details please see the Book onto Induction Events section.
Tel: +44 (0)1334 46 7198 Email: osds@st-andrews.ac.uk
For any event/course queries: osdscourses@st-andrews.ac.uk
- Staff development
- Getting Started - Guide for New Employees (PDF, 2,138 KB)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development/academic-teaching-staff:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development » Academic and Teaching staff
Here you will find a range of workshops, resources and services to help you in all aspects of your development.
If you have any feedback or suggestions about Academic Staff Development we’d be delighted to hear from you.
Academic Staff Development Programme
PI's and research leaders
Mentoring and coaching
Online resources
‌ Academic Review and Development Scheme (ARDS)
Heads of School Zone
Organisational Development Specialist (Academic Staff) OSDS
Tel: ( 01334) 467179 Email: asd-osds@st-andrews.ac.uk
- New Staff Learning Portal - My development
- Passport programmes - Research leave - Heads of School Zone - Research funding support (RBDC)
- Research support
- PGR supervisor training (Moodle)
- Support for PGR Supervisors
- HR Excellence award - Athena Swan award

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development/research-staff:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development » Research staff
Log into the Personal Development Management System (PDMS) and select the audience “Research Staff” to see the full range of CPD activities that are available to Research Staff.
All this is available free of charge to all research staff and early career academics at the University.
Treat this wide range of CPD activities as an open programme or join the ILM approved Passport to Research Futures Programme for a more tailored development experience.
Keep up to date with what’s coming up by joining the OSDS Staff Development MS Team .
Online learning
Teaching
Writing retreat
Organisational Development Specialist (Research Staff) OSDS
Email: osds@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2241
The University of St Andrews is an institutional member of Vitae (the UK body which champions professional and career development for researchers in HE).
This demonstrates our commitment to researcher development and provides us with access to a wide range of resources, events and support for our researcher development activities.
Learn more about the support available from Vitae.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development/professional-staff:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development » Professional staff
Professional staff carry out a huge range of different roles across the University.
We aim to source, create and make available a range of training and development solutions for you, regardless of your role.
There is an open programme of courses found on PDMS , plus a selection of digital learning found on Moodle.
Individual support is also available with coaching, psychometric and mentoring opportunities on offer.
If there is something that you need that is not on offer, please let us know: osds@st-andrews.ac.uk
‌ Technicians Commitment Initiative
Administrators Skillset
Review and Development Scheme (RDS)
‌ New staff learning portal
Organisational Development Specialist (Professional Staff) OSDS
Tel: (01334) 462561 Email: osds@st-andrews.ac.uk
- Money matters

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development
Your development is important for professional and personal growth for both current roles and future careers.
‌ The 70/20/10 model (Lombardo and Eichinger, 1996) recommends that individuals obtain ‌70 percent of their development from job-related experiences like projects, 20 percent from coaching or mentoring, and 10 percent from formal  training events.
To create your development plan  and optimise your development discuss your plan with your manager during your RDS / or ARDS.
To support your self-directed development OSDS have created a Moodle page that is designed to provide you with a range of online courses covering topics such as communication and team development.
The format of these courses could be eLearning modules, links to Ted talks or other online learning resources.
The Moodle page will be continually updated to include new material when it becomes available and if you have a particular learning resource that you believe could be hosted here, then please let us know.
You can self enrol onto the page - Course: Staff Development Online Courses (OSDS) (st-andrews.ac.uk)
Academic and Teaching staff
Research staff
‌ Professional staff
‌ Mentoring and coaching
Review and development process
LinkedIn Learning
Four new self-paced, online training courses for academics

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development/mentoring-coaching/mentoring:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development » Mentoring and Coaching » University mentoring schemes
The University offers a variety of mentoring schemes for different staff groups.
While each scheme is broadly similar, they are tailored to meet the specific needs of the participants.
Below is a summary of the schemes, but please visit the respective scheme webpages for more details and access to the relevant online application forms.
The Elizabeth Garrett mentoring programme has been created for women in senior levels in academia at the University of St Andrews.
The programme is sponsored by the Principal, Professor Sally Mapstone.
It aims to support women in, or aspiring to, academic leadership roles, and to develop leadership capability.
The establishment of this scheme acknowledges the need to increase representation of women at senior levels of academia, including at St Andrews, and seeks to address this inequality.
It aims to help women achieve their true potential in whatever capacity.
It recognises that there should be no obstacles for women of ability.
For all University professional/support staff from schools & units.
The aim of the professional staff mentoring scheme is to support staff and help them to achieve (and develop) specific objectives that they set for themselves.
In the majority of matches it is envisaged that mentors & mentees will be from different schools / units.
This helps to promote cross-school / unit working, and has proved to be successful.
Unlike the schemes above, the Academic probationers mentoring scheme is managed locally within academic schools and is not directly coordinated by Organisational and Staff Development Services (OSDS).
The aim of this scheme is to provide support for newly appointed academics.
Schools are also encouraged to include teaching fellows in this scheme.
Please note that the mentoring information should be read in conjunction with the academic review and development scheme
Elizabeth Garrett mentoring programme Email: egmentoring@st-andrews.ac.uk
Other mentoring programmes Email: osds@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development/mentoring-coaching/coaching:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development » Mentoring and Coaching » Coaching
The coaching service is currently not accepting new requests for coaching as we transition to a new system.
We expect to resume accepting new coaching requests by June 2025.
If you would like to be notified when the coaching service reopens for new requests, please email coaching@st-andrews.ac.uk with your expression of interest.
You will be contacted directly once we are ready to accept new clients.
Welcome to the workplace coaching scheme provided by the Universities of Aberdeen and St Andrews coaching partnership.
Launched in 2014, our joint Coaching Academy now offers coaching programs for staff at both institutions.
These programs help individuals think through their options in relation to various workplace situations they may be facing.
Our coaches work with their clients - or coachees - on a one-to-one basis, to help them address specific work-related challenges around people, projects, or issues relating to career development.
Essentially, the coach helps the coachee to:
The aim of the coach is to promote independence in the coachee so that they take responsibility for their own learning, rather than by becoming dependent on the coach.
Coaching is suitable for people who are interested in exploring possibilities and setting goals to help them move forward.
This may be at the start of their career, in the middle or whilst undergoing change.
Coaching is a confidential and voluntary process that enables individuals to manage workplace issues in a more constructive and confident manner.
Coaching is not about experience, wise counsel or advice.
That’s mentoring, or something you might get from a friend or your manager.
Your coach won’t advise you what to do, and it’s not just a conversation or having someone to talk to or to use as a moaning session.
Coaching is action-oriented and focuses on goals and moving forward.
Coaching is not just for senior managers or executives, it can be accessed by all staff at both Universities.
Those receiving coaching benefit by:
learning to address their own challenges;
developing greater self-awareness in a safe and supportive environment that enables the coachee to gain insight into their approach and patterns of behaviour;
identifying their goals, and the potential barriers to achieving these;
developing appropriate skills and strategies and feeling empowered to take action.
If they have management responsibilities, this may result in enhancing their ability to lead and communicate with others, provide direction and developing others.
The coaches in the network come from a range of academic, research, professional, support and technical roles bringing a range of experience and insight to the coaching role.
All coaches have attended accredited coaching training and receive regular support, supervision and CPD from staff development professionals in both Universities.
The coaches take on coaching assignments in addition to their main job roles and responsibilities and, unlike mentors, do not need to have expertise in the work or discipline area of their 'coachee' although they will all have developed particular areas of coaching specialism.
The Aberdeen - St Andrews Coaching Partnership opens the door to cross-institutional coaching programmes, which may suit some coachees.
In order to make such partnerships a practical proposition, partnerships are conducted mainly by phone or Teams.
The coach and coachee would normally discuss and agree the necessary arrangements during their first coaching conversation.
The coaching programme has received very positive feedback from its participants, with an overall Satisfaction Index Rate of 92.8%.
94% of participants feel the coaching has had a direct beneficial impact on their work environment (workplace/team) and 93% felt their performance at work had definitely been enhanced as a result of the coaching.
Coaching can be a useful management approach for working with your staff.
To find out more, it is recommended that you attend the Coaching: An introduction workshop which will explain the basics of the approach.
Coaching Policy (PDF, 277 KB)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds/my-development/dignity-inclusion-portfolio:
You are here: University » OSDS » Staff development » Dignity and inclusion portfolio
The Dignity and Inclusion Portfolio (DIP) is a programme of training and resources which seeks to engage participants in building their awareness and understanding of topics related to‌ equality, diversity, inclusion, and wellbeing in the workplace.
More specifically, it is designed to help you understand:
The sections below provide further information about the overall programme and each of the activities and resources within it.
The individual elements can be taken in stand-alone form or as part of a portfolio which secures a ‘certificate of recognition’ once the required courses are completed.
The courses are designed to be useful to all staff, with some being especially useful for those with responsibility for others.
Scheduled dates will be included in the programme overview section, with direct links to book places included where possible.
The Dignity and Inclusion Portfolio provides a range of training and resources which relate to themes around dignity and inclusion at work.
These are divided into those that are relevant to all staff, those that are of particular relevance to staff with responsibility for others (mainly those with line management responsibility) and 'other related training'.
The Portfolio is open to all staff and staff may opt to attend any of the workshops offered, subject to availability.
All scheduled courses are bookable via PDMS, the University's course booking system.
Staff may also register for the Dignity and Inclusion Portfolio Certificate., and will be issued with a certificate of recognition on completion of:
You may apply for your certificate of recognition on the basis of prior learning.
Attendances at relevant events during the previous 3 years may contribute to completion.
The full programme is outlined in the downloadable document below.
This indicates which of the elements are core and which are optional.
It also provides short descriptions of each element and a link to the relevant booking screen on PDMS for any scheduled instances.
DIP programme overview (PDF, 309 KB)
To register as a participant on the Dignity and Inclusion Portfolio (DIP), complete and submit the short DIP Registration form (on PDMS)
Once your request has been accepted, previous attendances relevant to the portfolio within the last 3 years will be included and will contribute towards portfolio completion.
Updating your record and claiming your certificate
As you complete the core and optional training courses, your training record will be updated automatically in PDMS.
Once the required number of elements have been completed (a minimum of 3 core elements and a minimum of 4 optional elements) you should email diportfolio@st-andrews.ac.uk and ask for your certificate to be issued.
Your training record will be validated and a certificate will be prepared for you.
You may be contacted to attend a Passport Graduation event to receive your certificate, or you may request to have the certificate sent to you directly.
There are a number of workshops which address the themes of dignity and inclusion at work, which are offered to all University staff:
For all staff:
Assertiveness skills
Existing
In a short time, participants will discover how becoming more assertive can be of benefit to them not only at work, but at home.
They will also have the chance to both learn about and practice using some assertiveness techniques.
By the end of the workshop, participants will:
Search PDMS
Creating positive outcomes from difficult conversations
This one day workshop will give practical insight into succeeding with difficult conversations.
It draws on practical concepts from the areas of conflict management, mediation and influencing.
Dealing with difficult behaviour 1 & 2
Participants will engage in personal work and dialogue to explore the different types of behaviour in self and others.
Case studies will be discussed to look at where behaviours originate and how each individual works with them.
This course is set to increase self-awareness, assertiveness and confidence in dealing with difficult behaviour.
Dignity and Respect Policy in Practice
New
A recent study by the YouGov on behalf of the TUC found that around a third of staff in the UK had been bullied in the workplace.
Bullying and harassment have negative impacts e.g.
low morale and is detrimental to mental health.
This can result in a loss of productivity and absence which will affect the success of the organisation.
This workshop has been designed to build awareness of what bullying and harassment means in the workplace and what actions are available to staff through the Dignity and Respect at work policy.
The workshop is for all staff, but those who have responsibility for others are particularly encouraged to attend.
Objectives
As a result of attending this workshop, participants will:
Diversity in the workplace
Online diversity training is for all University staff and is updated frequently to be compliant with the Equality Act (2010).
By completing the training employees can understand ‌their legal responsibilities with updated equalities laws in relation to the workplace, the service user and the studying environment.
Access Online Training
Pronoun and Gender-inclusive Language – Training Video
This training video is designed to equip staff and students with a basic understanding of the importance of adopting an inclusive approach towards gendered language and the use of pronouns within the University community.
The intention of this video is to provide people with the tools and understanding to help you treat everyone with respect and dignity with respect to gender and inclusivity.
Quiet leadership
Quiet leaders bring a sense of calm, projecting quiet, reassuring confidence, and creating an atmosphere where others can think well for themselves.
This one-day programme offers key insights on an approach to management and leadership that can help to transform the way we engage with others at work.
Through a combination of practical techniques and supporting information from neuroscience, participants are offered an opportunity to reflect on current practice and consider the impact of doing things differently.
Resilience in the face of change
The pace of life in just the last few years has become relentlessly faster and more demanding, resulting in a disconnect between mind and body.
Maintaining Mental Wellness has become one of the greatest challenges of the modern age.
Our attention is constantly under siege and our focus can become blurred by multiple distractions which can have a negative impact on us and our colleagues.
Become aware of our mindset and learn how much of our response is within our control.
This session will help participants to build resilience by learning how to:
Use Mindfulness exercises that can be built into daily life.
Unconscious bias
This course explores the implications of our tendency to hold natural bias and the impact that this can have in the workplace and on organisational performance.
Relevant training offered specifically to staff with line management responsibility includes:
For those with responsibility for others:
Diversity for managers
By the end of this workshop, participants will:
HR policies for managers
This short course is led by an HR Business Partner to explain the key HR policies, particularly relating to performance, which Managers in the University need to be aware of.
The course will be an interactive one, and there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Managing people: motivation and performance
One of the most challenging aspects of being a manager is managing the performance of staff.
It can be difficult, particularly when managing under-performance, to know how best to broach the issue and what measures to put in place.
This course is targeted at staff in management positions and focuses on understanding when performance needs to be addressed, how it can be approached and how motivation is a central issue to individual performance.
Mentally healthy workplace for managers (includes both online and f2f elements)
This course has been designed by the NHS and aims to develop and share good practice in promoting positive mental health and wellbeing, thereby contributing to a more open workplace culture.
This course uses a blended learning approach which includes an online module and participatory session.
The online component will take approximately 2 hours and must be completed prior to the course.
There are a number of other workshops which are relevant to the theme of 'Dignity and Inclusion at Work' which may also be of interest:
Other relevant training:
Age awareness for people managers
"Diversity & Inclusion is high on the agenda of many organisations particularly surrounding disability, gender and ethnicity but our research shows age inclusiveness can be overlooked.
You may not be aware of the negative impact that age bias and discrimination can have on your organisational culture.
Stereotypical attitudes to age can impact how both customers and employees are treated." Age Scotland
This workshop aims to:
Dementia awareness for people managers
Around 90,000 people in Scotland live with dementia, a number expected to DOUBLE in the next 25 years.
As changes to retirement and state pension rules make working beyond age 65 common, more people will experience early symptoms of dementia while in employment.
Many workers are also unpaid carers for someone who has dementia and a growing number of people will be affected by dementia, directly or as a dementia carer.
The workshop is all about interactive learning including a combination of practical activities, video clips and small group discussion.
The content is aimed at specific employee groups.
Typical topics will include:
Eating well – menopause
This session has been designed to provide information about foods which can exacerbate, cause, and relieve menopausal symptoms.
It will be delivered by a mixture of presentation and activities.
Lifestyle factors will also be considered and discussed.
The objectives of the workshop are to understand:
The workshop includes activities to understand the concepts and make better choices.
Let’s talk menopause
The workshop is open to all to discuss, inform and educate on the effects of the menopause.
This will encompass individual learning as well as group discussion, personal experience and theory.
There will be many helpful reading resources and social networks to consider on completion of the workshop.
Sylvia Hillman, a St Andrews Psychotherapist, will be running this workshop.
All information discussed in the room with Sylvia, as a facilitator and therapist, will remain confidential.
Wellbeing for carers
As a carer, wellbeing is of double importance.
This informal, interactive course will help to establish ways of staying well under the pressures of caring.
Caring needs consideration and time to reflect and plan how to be the best one can be whilst maintaining the everyday demands placed on one and learning to cope with change.
If you have any queries please email: diportfolio@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/support/pure:
Pure is the University of St Andrews’ research information system which brings together key information on all aspects of research at St Andrews.
Pure captures a wide range of research-related outcomes, such as:
Pure content can also be shared with other research information and analysis systems such as ORCID , Researchfish and Altmetrics for Institutions .
Research and Innovation Services, Digital Research Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2321 Email: purelive@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/integrity-ethics:
All staff, students and research visitors engaged in research within the University, and externally on behalf of the University, must ensure that research is carried out responsibly in conformity with the law and in accordance with best current practice, irrespective of the source of funding.
World-leading research quality remains at the heart of what St Andrews does, and the University recognises that meeting this aim requires the highest standards of research integrity.
If your research involves human participants, their data or samples, then ethical review and approval is mandatory and must be obtained before starting your research.
If your research involves animals, their data or tissue, then ethical review and approval is mandatory and must be obtained before starting your research.
The external work policy set by the University Court indicates the circumstances and conditions in and upon which the Court will give consent to academic and academic-related staff to carry out external work.
Research governance includes sponsorship of NHS research, due diligence on overseas research partner organisations, export controls, and the Nagoya 
protocol
‘Trusted Research’ refers to the consideration of national security issues (threats from hostile actors, whether state, organisational or individual) in the activities of Universities.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/policies:
To maintain the highest standards of research activity, the University has set out a number of policies and procedures.
The list below provides, in one place, links to all research-related policies and procedures set out by the University.
View the research centres and institutes policy document (PDF)
Research and Innovation Services Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 7220 Email: ris@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/research/professionaldevelopment:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Research » New staff and professional development
Welcome to new staff and to staff interested in their professional development.
Start here to explore staff development opportunities within the University.
Organisational and Staff Development Services (OSDS) offers a range of specific services for researchers.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/research/managing:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Research » Managing your research
Managing the financial aspects of your research.
Managing the output aspects of our research

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/support/open-research/research-data-management:
The Research Data Management team provide support on all aspects of the management of research data including how to create a data management plan, understanding funder requirements, organising your data and how to archive and share your data.
The team also provides initial advice on any ethical, legal and data security issues to consider and put you in touch with the relevant contacts at the University for more detailed enquiries.
Planning for research data and other digital outputs from research involves the planning of resources through a data management plan.
Research data management is a process that continues throughout and beyond a research project.
Choosing appropriate data storage and backup facilities is paramount for any type of digital output during a research project.
Researchers have a responsibility to identify sensitive data and correctly protect it.
The University of St Andrews, as well as most funders and journals have policies regarding the preservation, publication and citation of research data.
Archiving, preservation and publication are important stages of the research data lifecycle.
The University and UKRI require a data access statement to be included in all publications even when data is not publicly available.
Guidance on requirements and on how to write a complete statement.
The computer code used for generating software, websites and models or simulations during a research project is a digital output that should be managed using a suitable version control system.
As part of the first-year review, postgraduate students must submit a data management plan.
At the end of their studies, they are encouraged to make data underpinning theses publicly available.
The Research Data Management team can provide support on a range of data management topics.
Open Research, part of Libraries and Museums Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/researchfundingsupport:
You are here: University » Research Funding Support
RBD are a team of  Business Development Managers (BDMs) who can assist you in finding funding for your research ideas, completion of your applications, and are your first point of contact for all research proposals to external funding bodies.
In addition, RDB have a dedicated BDM for European funding.
BDMs also assist academics in pricing research contracts.
We work closely with the contracts team within Central Legal and Finance Advice and Support (FAS) to ensure a seamless and comprehensive research support service.
Contract Manager/Officers lead (CM/COs) lead on research contract negotiation with all funders on behalf of the University, in consultation with the academic community as appropriate.
Our aim is to secure appropriate terms and conditions of award beneficial to all parties within the University which balance risk with intellectual benefit.
Agreement types include Collaboration, Research Services, Material Transfers and Non-Disclosure Agreements (for research).
Structured into School teams, Finance Advice and Support provide costings for all research applications and assistance with completing online submissions.
The University of St Andrews uses the full economic costing methodology to produce an estimate of the full cost of the project.
The price of the application should be discussed with your Business Development Manager.
This is especially important when dealing with industrial and overseas sponsors.
Costing requests should be sent by e-mail to the relevant School email address (see Contacting the Team).
The administration and financial reporting of successful applications will be facilitated by FAS.
FAS will provide advice and support on a wide range of issues including online reporting tools and are responsible for accounting for the income and expenditure on the University’s research activity, ensuring that the terms of funding are adhered to and that the expenditure is maximised within budgets.
Research Funding Support University of St Andrews
Postal Walter Bower House Guardbridge St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Contacting the team

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/showcase/excellence:
The University of St Andrews has consistently achieved high rankings for research quality in national assessment exercises.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is a process of expert review for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions and is the successor to the Research Assessment Exercise (RAE).
Below you can find the University of St Andrews results from previous exercises.
According to REF 2021, more than 88% of research carried out by the University of St Andrews is world-leading or internationally excellent.
Across Science and the Arts, the University of St Andrews has emerged as top in Scotland and 14th in the UK for the quality of its research publications, according to the results of the 2014 REF.
The University of St Andrews was placed 14th in the UK and second in Scotland for the quality of its research in the RAE 2008 results.
The University of St Andrews topped the RAE 2001 league tables in Scotland and was placed in the top ten UK-wide.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/support/open-research/open-access:
The REF team shared an update to its open access policy for REF 2029 in December.
If you're curious about what’s changing, you can read more here .
The UKRI Open Access Fund for long-form publications is now open for applications.
Read more about the fund and the application process at St Andrews in our guidance .
Open access monographs - see our guidance on making monographs open access to meet funder requirements and our institutional open access fund criteria for unfunded researchers.
Claims and queries must be sent in advance of any agreement to cover fees.
Email the required information to openaccess@st-andrews.ac.uk .
"We have a duty to make the findings of publicly funded research openly available, to make them as useful and impactful as possible to all potential users, for the benefit of everyone." -- Amanda Solloway, UK Science Minister
Open access means research literature that can be freely accessed by anyone in the world via the internet so that it can be used without licensing restrictions for research, teaching or other purposes.
Research that is more available to read and share increases the potential for citation, reuse, and impact, which in turn benefits researchers, the University, and society.
The open access service provides support and information on all aspects of open access including help with publications budget costing in grant applications, advice on Read and Publish and legacy agreements, individual APC payments for eligible journals, funder policies, Pure deposit, and copyright.
Open access to research increases its visibility, reaching a wider audience.
Open access can be achieved through two main routes.
To make your work open access deposit your Author Accepted Manuscript in Pure as soon as it is accepted.
The University’s approach to open access to ensure the widest possible access to its research publications.
The University has central funding available to support the open access policies for UK Research Councils, Wellcome Trust and other charities.
The University has arranged various agreements and partnerships which support open access publishing.
Most research funders now require you to make certain outputs available open access, as a condition of a grant.
Rights Retention is a primary support mechanism for the University of St Andrews Open Access policy
The latest open access news and updates from the Open Research team.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/research/knowledgetransfer:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Research » Knowledge transfer
Find the best support for developing practical applications for your research outcomes.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study-abroad/global-research:
The Global Office supports and coordinates a diverse suite of innovative programmes that aim to enhance our international collaboration, deepen our research connectivity with key institutions and scholars to address some of the most pressing global challenges, and solidify the University's world-leading reputation.
Keep up to date with the most recent global research news by following the Global Office's blog .
The Global Fellowship Scheme provides prestigious awards to enable talented scholars from around the globe to spend anywhere between one week to a month at St Andrews.
The University has partnered with several leading international institutions to establish joint funding programmes that support innovative research and education collaborations.
The University welcomes academics from across the globe to undertake a period of research and study within the unique scholarly community at St Andrews.
The University of St Andrews and the University of Bonn have a joint appointments agreement, which enables researchers to spend time at the other university over a three-year period.
The University of St Andrews is pleased to offer tailored opportunities for joint PhDs, known as ‘co-tutelles’, allowing students to conduct doctoral research at two institutions and to obtain a jointly awarded degree.
The University of St Andrews validates research degrees offered by the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland.
On successful completion of their programmes of study, research students at the Conservatoire receive an award from the University.
The University of St Andrews has a collaborative agreement with the China Scholarship Council to develop research collaborations between the UK and Chinese universities and research institutions.
The Brazil+ Working Group has developed a suite of materials to support researchers and other staff who are interested to carry out research in Brazil or engage in the Brazilian HE sector more generally.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/studentadmin/advisingandmatriculation:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Student administration » Advising and matriculation - undergraduate
See:
Registry - Undergraduate University of St Andrews
Postal Walter Bower House Eden Campus, Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work +44 (0)1334 46 4089/2117
Email: Work registry-ug@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/studentadmin/examining-process:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Student administration » Research examining process
Research degree examinations at the University are overseen by the Associate Provost Students ( assocprovost-students@st-andrews.ac.uk ) with the assistance of the Postgraduate Research Team (PGR Team – Student Journey) in the University’s Academic Registry, and are conducted in line with the Senate Postgraduate Resolutions and Regulations .
Consequently, most correspondence regarding the examination process will be conducted with the PGR Team via registry-pgr@st-andrews.ac.uk , unless otherwise indicated.
Research student examination committee nominations should be completed online in MMS; this form should be sent to Registry (Postgraduate Research - registry-pgr@st-andrews.ac.uk ) six weeks prior to the submission of the thesis.
The online facility allows any member of staff associated with the Research module for their School to fill in and save the details of a nomination.
Once the nomination has been saved the Head of School or the Director of Postgraduate Studies can check the nomination and press the button that approves the completed nomination and sends it to Registry.
Only the Head of School or the Director of Postgraduate Studies can approve a nomination.
Online Nomination for Examining Committee for research postgraduates via MMS
Guidance on completion of the Online Nomination Form
The University has an online system to manage the submission of theses and examination process.
Staff and students will be able to access My Saint to complete relevant tasks.
Research Degree Examinations Guidance Booklet (PDF, 919 KB)
Guidance for submission of theses (PDF, 1,108 KB)
Please use the following form to inform Registry of changes of supervisors.
Change of Supervisor Form for Research Postgraduate Students (Word, 31 KB)
Guidance on the different kinds of supervision (principal, secondary, mentor etc) can be found in the Supervision of postgraduate research students policy

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/studentadmin/disabilities:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Student administration » Disabilities information
Information and resources relating to disabilities in the University.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/studentadmin/absence:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Student administration » Absence

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/policy/visitingscholarsandstudents:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Policy and governance » Visiting Scholars and Students
The University welcomes visiting academic scholars and students.
Visiting scholars may have different arrangements and associations with the University.
They may apply to visit the University for a period of 1 to 12 months whether for a short research visit or for an extended stay during sabbatical leave from their own university.
We provide access to University facilities enabled by an ID card and a guest email account if required.
The applicant should have a specific research reason to be in St Andrews, either because of materials available in the University library or because of a research link with a current member of the University staff.
Where the research visit can be funded and is not already part of a funded research collaboration, fees are charged as a contribution towards the cost of providing access to library, building and network facilities, and where applicable, supervision of student visitors.
If a visitor is not receiving funding for their stay, a case can be made to have part of the fee waived.
These arrangements apply only to Visiting Scholars (members of academic staff or students enrolled at other educational institutions) whose intended visit has an academic purpose.
Other arrangements exist for those who study, visit or work at the University in other capacities.
There are three types of Visiting Scholar:
A member of staff wishing to host a Visiting Scholar should discuss the merits of the case with the Head of School.
If the Head of School wishes to accept a Visiting Scholar, they should complete and return a copy of the form ‘Visiting Scholar Notification’ to vscholar@st-andrews.ac.uk , briefly stating the purpose of the visit and the expected beneficial outcomes.
The School should indicate on the form whether a fee should be charged.
This should be returned at least one month before the start of the proposed visit.
Once the Notification form has been forwarded to vscholar@st-andrews.ac.uk , the School will receive an email to state that it has been actioned and to arrange an ID Card.
It is the responsibility of the Head of School to inform the Visiting Scholar of the invitation and to make all further arrangements for the visit, including raising an invoice - see below.
If the visit does not take place, or if the dates of the visit are subsequently changed, please inform vscholar@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Please be advised that the Visiting Scholar mailbox is monitored on Mondays and Wednesdays, and requests will not be actioned out with these days.
In addition to the fee for the Visiting Scholar, during the process of arranging a visit the host and the Visiting Scholar should consider the following matters and ensure each is addressed accordingly.
Where a fee is to be charged, the School should complete a detailing the person or institute that should be invoiced along with all other relevant information and email to salesinvoicing@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Please confirm in the email if the amount to be invoiced includes the school element of 40% or if this has been waived.
The University will invoice the Visiting Scholar at his or her home institution address for the fee.
Income to the School from fees charged to Visiting PhD Training Students must be used to support postgraduate scholarships.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sustainability:
The University will be net zero by 2035, with students, staff and local residents working together to create positive change.
Join one of our climate, nature or community focused projects to help us reach our goal.
St Andrews is home to a variety of habitats.
Learn how we take care of them.
We are reducing our carbon emissions through energy and water conservation.
We are taking practical measures to provide sustainable food choices.
We offer a range of support and initiatives for sustainable travel.
We work to reduce, reuse, and recycle for a sustainable future.
Our researchers are addressing key questions on the defining issue of our generation.
Check out the Environment Team blog for sustainability news, stories and events.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sustainability/about/esb:
The Environmental Sustainability Board (ESB) was formed in February 2020 to accelerate the University's response to environmental change and the climate emergency announced by the Scottish Government and Fife Council.
The ESB is chaired by Professor Sir Ian Boyd.
Sir Ian was Chief Scientific Adviser to the UK Government on Food and the Environment based at DEFRA and is professor of marine biology at our Scottish Oceans Institute.
The ESB provides institutional leadership on the environment.
The immediate responsibility of the ESB is to create a new Environmental Sustainability Strategy for the University, incorporating a Carbon Management Plan and a Climate Adaptation Plan.
The ESB will then enable the rollout of this strategy and provide leadership on options for developing St Andrews in a sustainable manner, as well as producing environmental accounts.
The board meets ten times a year.
The first meeting was held in March 2020.
The Environmental Sustainability Board held a pioneering series of student forums from 22th to 26th of June 2020.
The aim of the forums was to hear from students their environmental concerns and solutions.
Over the course of the week, focus groups of interests were held on Microsoft Teams to give students creative ideas and solutions to some of our environmental problems.
Professor Sir Ian Boyd has recorded an introductory video to the forum .
The ESB puts the University community - students and staff- at its heart.
To achieve this, nine ESB board members were recruited from across the University community in an open application process.
These members are:
ESB meetings are attended by advisers who represent key offices and functions of the University.
These advisers are:
For all enquires concerning the ESB, please contact the ESB Coordinator, Dr Emma Read Kallblad
Email: erk3@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sustainability/research:
From climate science and sustainable development to energy ethics and technologies, world-leading research on sustainability is taking place at the University of St Andrews.
Across the breadth of the University, our researchers are addressing key questions on the defining issues of our generation.
Get involved with one of our Vertically Integrated Projects .
Visit the website to find out more and apply to one of these interdisciplinary research projects covering a range of sustainability topics.
The St Andrews Research Internship Scheme (StARIS) hosts paid research interns.
These provide students the opportunity to engage in real-world research projects, fostering the development of technical skills and competencies while collaborating with researchers in their fields of study.
The projects span a diverse range of topics across disciplines, often with the aim of addressing the challenges and opportunities associated with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) .
St Andrews' definition of 'sustainability research' is broad and is aligned with the United Nations Sustainability Goals (UN SDGs) .
You can learn more about some of the work in the latest Sustainability Report :
The Corrour X University of St Andrews Partnership brings together the University of St Andrews and Corrour in a long-term collaboration for nature-based climate mitigation, and research and teaching.
Together, we are creating a living laboratory at Corrour that advances the shared missions of both institutions:
Corrour is a key contributor to the St Andrews Forest — a flagship initiative of the University’s Environmental Sustainability Strategy.
Through a nature-based carbon agreement, Corrour supports the University’s journey to net zero by providing high-integrity, additional carbon units from woodland regeneration and peatland restoration.
We invite researchers from across all disciplines to propose projects that explore, question, and contribute to our understanding of ecological restoration and sustainability in its broadest sense, including the natural sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities, technology, policy, economics, and interdisciplinary approaches.
For more information on Corrour, and how to submit a proposal, please visit the St Andrews Forest page .
We have a number of cross-School and internal research centres and initiatives exploring different aspects of sustainability research within and across disciplines, including the Centre for Energy Ethics (CEE), the Third Generation Project, and the Biodiversity Interdisciplinary Research Community Hub (BIRCH).
Started in 2021, the Centre for Energy Ethics explores how energy systems are connected to politics, economics and social life.
The group questions how substantial transformations in our relationships with energy production, distribution and consumption come about.
The centre is led by Professor Mette High, Dr Sean Field and Dr Emilka Skrzypek.
Get involved by signing up to the weekly CEE Newsletter or contacting the team at admin.cee@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The Third Generation Project is a research and advocacy initiative at the University of St Andrews dedicated to addressing global social justice challenges through collaboration with marginalised communities.
Focused on decolonising research practices, the project amplifies voices often excluded from policy and academic discourse.
By fostering partnerships and producing impactful, community-driven work, it seeks to influence equitable and sustainable solutions to pressing global issues.
The Biodiversity Interdisciplinary Research Community Hub (BIRCH) is a network of staff with an interest in nature, human-nature relationships, biodiversity and ecosystem management.
The network supports staff across Schools to develop transdisciplinary projects and to engage students in new ways of thinking about and protecting nature.
The St Andrews Environmental Humanities Network brings together researchers, students, and practitioners whose work engages with ecocultural issues ranging from the study of ancient landscape management and representations to investigations of contemporary sustainable behaviours and practices.
The St Andrews Centre for Critical Sustainabilities (StACCS) is co-directed by Dr Ian Lawson and Dr Louise Reid and brings together colleagues from across disciplines and career stages to tackle the complex challenges of sustainability.
Recognising that this work demands collaboration beyond academia, StACCS is committed to building equitable, reciprocal partnerships and fostering a community united by the ambition to generate new understandings, practice responsible scholarship, and co-produce knowledge with diverse partners and communities.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/tech/estates:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Tech and administrative services » Estates
Welcome to Estates.
Estates is a key support unit providing a range of functional activities that will help the University achieve its corporate objectives.
It is an integrated centre of excellence responsible for implementing decisions related to the buildings, fabric and infrastructure of the University.
It provides specialist advice to the University on strategic estates issues as well as its statutory obligations.
The comprehensive service provided includes:
To request Estates and Security and Response services click here
Estates and Security and Response services
Estates Department Woodburn Place St Andrews Fife KY16 8LA Scotland, United Kingdom
Email: estates@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3999

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/staff-phones:
If you need a phone as part of your role, IT Services will provide you with either:
You can find extension numbers for other staff using your Outlook address book or the University's staff directory .
If you have a call plan enabled, you can make and receive phone calls through Microsoft Teams.
IT Services work with Vodafone to provide staff with mobile phones if they need them.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/tech/mailroom:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Tech and administrative services » Mailroom
The mailroom provides comprehensive mail and postal services to Schools and Units in the University of St Andrews.
Monday to Friday: 8am to 5pm Saturday and Sunday: Closed
Royal Mail delivers to the Mailroom each morning and collects the outgoing mail in the afternoon.
For same day posting the deadline for last post is 4pm at the Mailroom.
The Mailroom driver collects and delivers mail from most Schools and Units once a day.
Delivery times are available on request.
To help us deliver the mail promptly please ensure that you address your internal mail as fully as possible.
Many Schools and Units are spread over split sites and unless the names of the departments and buildings concerned are included in the address the mail may inadvertently be delivered to the wrong site.
Please ensure the department is shown on any mail for Walter Bower House to ensure it is delivered to the correct locker.
All student mail should be addressed to their Halls of Residence or private address as it is not dealt with by the Mailroom.
Any direct queries in relation to mail deliveries should be directed to mailroom@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Please ensure that your mail is correctly addressed.
A postcode is required for UK mail and the destination country should be shown for International mail.
Mail is sent out 2nd class unless the envelope is marked to be sent as 1st class.
UK mail can also be sent out Signed for, Special Delivery or by courier.
International mail will be sent by Airmail but can also be Tracked or sent by courier.
Should you wish to specify the way any mail is sent a form is available from the Mailroom which can also be returned to you confirming the cost and any tracking details.
International letters should have a blue Airmail sticker attached to the top left-hand corner of the letter.
Please contact the Mailroom should you require any stickers.
All non-document items that are going abroad require a customs label.
Please ensure this has been completed before the item is collected for posting.
Where the value of the item is below £270 a CN22 label is required.
If the value exceeds £270 a CN23 label must be completed.
These labels have already been provided to several departments for use or are available from the Mailroom on request.
Where the package exceeds 2kg in weight it will be sent by courier.
Additional information for customs is required where an item is sent abroad using a courier.
Please contact the Mailroom for the latest form which you should complete with full details of the package contents.
The Mailroom will then arrange the shipment and submit the customs information.
If a School or Unit is preparing a bulk mailing, the mailroom should be given two days advance notice of posting.
This will enable the mail to be processed in the most efficient way.
It is also helpful if all addresses are kept facing the same way up.
The mailroom makes no additional charge for its services, the cost of postage is recharged to Schools and Units using the appropriate cost centre coding.
Royal Mail deliveries are made to the Mailroom.
Amazon lockers have been provided for the collection of items at the University Library and at David Russell Apartments.
Staff are urged to use this service for the collection of personal items.
You may be asked to collect your item from the Mailroom if it is obviously not work-related.
Couriers will deliver to the address shown on the package so staff must ensure when ordering items that the correct address is used and a contact phone number is provided.
If couriers are unable to access the building or contact the recipient, the item could be returned to the sender or may go astray if it is just left at that address.
Full postal addresses for University departments are available through the contacts page on the website.
Advice and general enquiries about any of the University mail services should be directed to the Mailroom.
Mail Room
Observatory Workshop Buchanan Gardens St Andrews Fife KY16 9LZ Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: 01334 463981
Email: mailroom@st-andrews.ac.uk
We can now be found beside the community garden.
Mailroom Mail bags Mailroom services

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/hr:
You are here: University » Human Resources
The HR team are working via a hybrid approach.
HR staff can be contacted using Microsoft Teams or email.
Email and telephone contact details for all HR staff members can be found on our HR staff webpage .
Each School & Unit has a dedicated HR Business Partner.
(HRBP) You can find out who your assigned HRBP is on the Business Partner webpage .
* Salary uplifts are incorporated into the total annual salary and paid in monthly instalments.
Access to all HR policies, procedures and forms can be downloaded from the HR policy webpage .
Access to all other policies, procedures and guidance can be downloaded from Governance Zone .
Documents are provided in PDF and Word, to read PDF's a free copy of Adobe Acrobat Reader can be downloaded, also refer to webpages Adobe accessibility or Screen reading for visual impairments.
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact us via the online BSL Video Relay Interpreting Service .
All HR documents are available in an alternative format upon request.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/tech/estates/maintenance/repairs:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Tech and administrative services » Estates » Maintenance and repairs » Request repairs
Much of the service we provide depends on us reacting to your requests.
Please tell us if something is wrong.
Urgent requests should only be for work that cannot wait until the next day.
Emergency situations are situations which may threaten personal safety or the integrity of building fabric, building services, equipment or grounds.
Urgent and emergency requests should be made by telephone.
From 08.00 until 17.00 Monday to Friday dial our switchboard on 01334 463999.
Outwith normal hours and at weekends, dial 8999 from an internal extension or 07795645158 from an external line.
Requests for attention to breakdown, repairs or maintenance should be directed to your Building Reporting Officer, Residence Manager or Residence Assistant Manager.
Planon

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Number 1 in the UK, the University of St Andrews offers an unforgettable higher education experience.
Founded in 1413, Scotland’s oldest University is a mix of the dynamically modern and the evocatively historical.
Home to just over 8,000 undergraduate students, learn from leading academics and immerse yourself in your chosen field whilst exploring additional subjects through our flexible degree structure.
With 41% of our student body coming from outside of the UK, St Andrews provides a truly diverse and vibrant student community with a global outlook.
As a St Andrews student you be joining a university which is progressive and forward-thinking.
With more than 180 societies, 50 sports clubs and 500 student representatives, the student experience at St Andrews is consistently ranked highly by students.
Find a course Register your interest
St Andrews students are some of the most satisfied in the country.
Find out what makes our student experience so unique.
Explore some of the options available.
Find out more about scholarships, loans, and other ways to fund your degree.
Ready for your next chapter?
Explore opportunities to meet with us in St Andrews, online and in your country.
Gain english and academic skills to help prepare you for successful university study.
The four-year structure for most of our degree programmes allows you to study a broad range of subjects before settling on your choice of degree.
You will study three subjects in first year and two or three in second year, depending on your subject.
Third and fourth years are Honours years where you specialise further in your chosen subject.
Explore the flexible degree structure
The flexible degree structure at the University of St Andrews gives you more choice in your studies.
Most of our degrees take four years.
You start by studying three subjects and then specialise as you progress.
This gives you more breadth to your education as well as enabling you to study subjects you are passionate about.
At the start of your studies you will choose two additional subjects alongside the subject or subjects you have been admitted to study.
In first year you will study three subjects each semester.
If you apply for a single honours programme within our Faculty of Arts you would pick another two subjects to make up your timetable.
In second year you can choose to change up to two of your subjects.
Maybe another field of study has caught your attention or your interests have changed.
The choice is there for you.
If you are studying a science programme in second year you will choose two subjects to make up your timetable instead of three.
Once you reach third year it is now time to decide what your final degree is going to be.
Together with your advisor of studies you will either choose to work towards a single honours degree or a joint honours degree.
Your single honours degree can be in any subject that you have studied at both first and second year levels already and does not have to be what you initially applied for.
Similarly a joint honours degree can be any two of the subjects you have studied at first and second year level.
The flexible degree structure lets you study multiple subject areas, learn more skills and change the course of your degree should you find that another subject is a better fit.
Please visit our website to learn more about the subjects you can study or contact our admissions team.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
Whatever your chosen discipline, your programme will put you in control, helping you make an impact on the latest research and innovation in your field.
Students who join our research programmes combine periods of intense research and independent study, and have the opportunity to:
97% of research postgraduate students are either in employment or further study after graduation according to the Graduate Outcomes survey 2020-2021.
St Andrews research graduates move onto academic positions around the world and a range of professions outside of academia.
Find out more about what you can do with your degree after you graduate.
How to apply
Find out what qualifications and supporting documents you'll need when you apply.
Tuition fees for UK and international students on research postgraduate programmes.
Find out when you need to apply for entry and funding opportunities.
89% of the research at the University of St Andrews is classed as world-leading by the UK Research Excellence Framework 2021.
Browse University and third-party funding opportunities.
Explore the options available to postgraduate students.
Ask questions, explore postgraduate study, and find out more about life in St Andrews at one of our events.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/part-time:
Part-time study at St Andrews offers the opportunity to learn at one of the most extraordinary universities in the world in a way that fits around you and your commitments.
St Andrews offers you high-quality, passionately taught, flexible study in a welcoming and friendly environment.
Not everyone progresses to higher education directly from school so we offer creative and flexible part-time study options to support all those who need to balance work, family or other commitments around their studies.
For those who wish to study for a degree part time during the day.
The MA Combined Studies programme allows you to study part time in the evening.
Fully online masters programmes for those looking to study a postgraduate degree whilst managing existing commitments.
Lifelong learning team Email: lifelonglearning@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2132
​The Students’ Association Carers, Commuters, Mature and Flexible Learners Forum (CCMFL) Email: ccmfl@st-andrews.ac.uk
Download the Part-time Study Prospectus (PDF)
Download the MA Combined Studies Evening Degree Brochure (PDF)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-school/executive-education:
Welcome to University of St Andrews Business School Executive Education.
Our Executive Education courses prepare professionals to excel in a rapidly evolving business landscape.
We offer a world-leading educational experience and welcome participants from all professional backgrounds to join our diverse, vibrant and dynamic learning community.
We prepare you to be a pioneer in a digitally transformed world and to create the sustainable business models essential in today's environmentally conscious market.
Our approach is inherently entrepreneurial.
We encourage you to think creatively, challenge norms, and develop innovative business solutions.
This spirit is fundamental to how we teach, from classroom discussions to practical business engagements.
This is an immersive experience that will prepare you to be an influential leader.
Join us on your transformative journey.
Register your interest Email the team
Executive Education will be at the Carnegie Conference Centre in Dunfermline, with the Fife Business EXPO 2025 .
Hosted by Fife Chamber of Commerce, the event is a great opportunity to find out more about what the University of St Andrews Business School can offer.
Join academic and industry experts for one of our courses – across three or four days – in topics spanning finance, AI, leadership, sustainability and healthcare.
Graduates of the University of St Andrews can enjoy a 50% alumni discount on our Executive Education short courses.
Book a virtual coffee chat with our Vice-Dean Executive Education to talk through any questions you may have about Executive Education at St Andrews.
Watch our video to learn about the Executive Education programme.
Executive Education overview
Welcome to the University of St Andrews Business School, where centuries of academic excellence meet the future of business leadership.
I'm Marcel Lukas, Director of Executive Education, and I'm delighted to introduce our pioneering Executive Education programme.
Today, organisations face exceptional challenges that require innovative thinking and decisive leadership.
The University of St Andrews Business School addresses this head on, offering focused insights into areas such as generative AI, climate change adaptation and future focused leadership.
Our teaching staff are world-leading academics and top industry practitioners.
Working with them, you will engage with real world challenges, collaborate with fellow leaders and develop practical strategies.
Each programme will equip you with the tools and perspectives you need to drive meaningful change within your organisation.
The University of St Andrews, Scotland's oldest seat of learning, is a place where pioneers and innovators have studied for over 600 years, offering the perfect environment for reflection, connection and breakthrough thinking.
Take the next step in your leadership journey, accelerate your career and transform your organisation future.
Please join us.
As we launch our Executive Education programme, we're excited to broaden our reach and impact through executives attending our short courses, and by offering partnerships with organisations.
We work with companies around the globe to develop their people, build leadership capability and make real impact across their business.
Partner with us, as we shape a new era of leadership education.
We look forward to working with you to benefit you and your organisation.
Tim Ringrose Head of Executive Education
We’ll deliver customised programmes for a range of organisations around the world.
Learn more about how your organisation could benefit from University of St Andrews expertise.
We’re collaborating with industry partners to develop consortia programmes.
Register your interest.
Find out more about getting here: www.st-andrews.ac.uk/visiting/travel/ .
Our academics and speakers bring a wealth of world-class industry experience.
Find out more about our expertise.
If your organisation is interested in investing in its development and people with University of St Andrews Business School Executive Education, we’re pleased to offer Corporate Memberships – a range of incentives to support your aspirations.
Fill out this short form and we will be in touch with more information about University of St Andrews Business School Executive Education.
The University of St Andrews Business School The Gateway North Haugh St Andrews KY16 9RJ
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2439 Email: bschool@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/support:
At the University of St Andrews, our network of advisers and specialists are available to all of our students.
There are a number of opportunities for students who are looking for academic support and development, including mathematics support and training in study skills.
A range of information, support, and guidance to anyone who has been care experienced.
The University of St Andrews chaplaincy offers support for students of all faiths and none.
Students can explore personal growth, spiritual development, or discuss issues without reference to faith.
For students who decide to study at St Andrews but live outside the town, there is support in place to help you find your feet, make friends, and reach your full academic potential.
Support for accommodation, financial assistance, mental health and wellbeing.
St Andrews is a welcoming, safe and supportive environment for students and scholars seeking sanctuary in the UK.
The University offers support to ensure that, on both an academic and a personal level, your experience as a student is successful and fulfilling.
There is support in place to help students with disabilities or long-term health conditions to reach their full academic potential during their time in St Andrews.
Support and advice if you re under 18 and support a family member.
Taking care of your health and wellbeing during your studies is important.
Find out about healthcare in St Andrews.
If you are attending the University of St Andrews with dependants, there is support in place to help you make childcare arrangements to suit your situation.
International students can find information about applying for visas and moving to the UK.
The University will not share any information about a student which goes against our confidentiality code.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundation:
An academic and supportive pre-degree route that prepares international students for undergraduate study in the UK.
Our in-house International Foundation programmes are pathway courses providing eligible overseas students with a route onto their undergraduate degree at St Andrews.
The foundation programmes are open to overseas students with a high school qualification that is not recognised for direct entry to our degree programmes.
When you study your foundation with us you will:
"St Andrews has been an established institution for hundreds of years and is amongst the most prestigious universities in the country, making it amongst my top options academically speaking.
My interest in experiencing new culture is what compelled me to ultimately choose studying in St Andrews in Scotland over England or elsewhere as it provided me with a unique balance of both strong academics and a unique setting."
The International Foundation programmes at St Andrews are open to overseas students with a high school qualification that is not recognised for application to our degree programmes.
Applicants will need to be:
You should not apply if you are studying or have achieved a qualification that we recognise for degree entry, irrespective of the grades achieved.
This includes A Levels, US High School, full IB Diploma, any qualification from the EU (excluding Greece and South Cyprus) or a foundation at another UK University.
If you are not eligible for an International Foundation programme, you may be interested in exploring direct entry to our undergraduate degrees .
For advice on your individual circumstances contact the Admissions team .
Find out here if you are eligible for our foundation programme.
Explore our international year zero, international year one, and pre-med programmes.
Get help with your application and find out more about what we need to see when you apply to get you a quick decision.
Our International Foundation programmes have a high success rate and our foundation qualification is also accepted for entry to other UK universities.
For those of you looking to study a degree we don’t offer at St Andrews you can still experience St Andrews but study your degree elsewhere.
In the past, students have gone on to institutions including Warwick, Southampton, Leeds, UCL, and Manchester to study subjects including engineering, journalism, veterinary medicine and accountancy.
Book a one-to-one session with one of our dedicated advisors.
International Foundation Programmes University of St Andrews Kinnessburn Kennedy Gardens St Andrews KY16 9DJ
Email: ifp@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone : +44 (0)1334 46 2255

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/international-honours:
Discover a truly international education - study jointly with the University of St Andrews in the UK and William & Mary in the USA.
[MUSIC] - Introducing the new Bachelor of Arts - international honours degree
- from the University of St Andrews
- and the College of William & Mary
- Two universities, one incredible degree.
[MUSIC] >> PROFESSOR FRANK MULLER: I think the main advantage of this programme is that students on it are not just visitors in two different academic worlds, but they're at home in two different academic worlds.
And so I expect students to go out of this programme ready to pick opportunities from across the globe where they find them, and that they're confident about going to new places knowing that it may be a bit challenging, but it's also very rewarding to do so.
>> PROFESSOR COLLEEN KENNEDY: This program provides students the liberal arts education for which William & Mary is well known as well as the in-depth study that characterises the St Andrews education.
In addition, more and more employers are looking towards study abroad experience, so the global awareness coupled with the liberal arts and the in-depth study make this an ideal programme.
[MUSIC]
[TEXT: Why did you choose this programme?]
>>VICTORIA: I chose this programme because of the opportunity to study abroad in both America and Scotland in two of the world's oldest and most prestigious universities.
>>KATIE: I'm from London and I chose this programme because it gives me the opportunity to have a degree in two different countries.
>>ANDREW: Two different perspectives, two different opportunities, and that just expands job opportunities.
>>ABBY: The real reason why I love this programme is because the people that are in the programme.
We're a very driven bunch, but the thing that holds us together is that we're going through this very unique opportunity together and we can kind of support each other while we move from one university to the next.
[TEXT: How does the programme work?]
>>KATIE: This program is actually quite simple in the way that it works.
You do your first year in the country that you apply to.
So, for Chase that was America, for me that's Scotland.
And then the second year, you go over to your other country - the other university.
- You then get to choose where you want to graduate and where you want to spend your third year.
>>KATIE: You must spend two years at two universities, but the order of where you go or where you graduate is up to you.
[TEXT: What is it like at William & Mary?]
>>LILIANA: So at William & Mary, the extracurricular life is very big.
There's tons of school spirit.
Tons of students go to all of our state sporting events.
>>CARLEY: It's great here at William & Mary.
We have so much to do, you are always busy.
>>JOHN: William & Mary is fantastic.
It's very personal, the people are very friendly, very smart.
>>KATIE: It's really nice because the class sizes are small so you actually get to know your professor.
[TEXT: What is it like at St Andrews?]
>>ROSEMARY: In St Andrews, there is a lot of stuff that goes on outside of academics.
I'm in the Symphony Orchestra, and it's audition-based, but they're really welcoming.
>>LU: I'm involved in the University Football League, and we play against Scottish locals.
- So here at St Andrews, I'm part of the volleyball club, and it's really different from William & Mary, because here you don't have as many people doing the club, so it's kind of just more for fun.
- One of the bests and most fun things that everyone can do is the idea of the academic family, which is really a support system here at the University of St Andrews, and they're especially involved with this weekend with Raisin where we all get dressed up and have a big foam fight in the quad.
[TEXT: What was the application process like?]
>>AEDAN: I was always gonna apply to William & Mary, but when I thought about the St Andrews programme, I went ahead and applied to the joint program as well.
>>LU: I came to St Andrews to do my foundation year to improve my English and academic skills.
After successfully graduating from the foundation, I came to join this programme.
[TEXT: What are your future plans?]
>>CHASE: After I finish up my studies in this programme, I intend to go on and practice law, either in Britain or America.
>>KATIE: Possibly to work in America or at least in a foreign country for part of my time.
>>CONRAD: I'd like to do something probably in the developing world.
[TEXT: One word to describe the programme]
- Unique
- Unprecedented
- Dynamic
- Adventurous - Challenging
- Magical
- Innovative
- Exhilarating
>>ALL: It can be you!
[TEXT: To find out more, please visit www.st-andrews.ac.uk ]

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/pathways:
A student community should be diverse and vibrant.
At St Andrews our aim is to ensure that our community is made up of the best and brightest students, regardless of the route they have taken to access higher education.
We recognise that diversity comes not only through nationality but also from a wide range of backgrounds, experience and educational paths.
There are a number of degree routes on offer that give applicants with alternative qualifications or who may have narrowly missed our standard entry requirements due to mitigating circumstances the opportunity to access a university education at St Andrews.
These pathways not only provide entry routes, but also come with pre-arrival and transitional support to ensure the students have the best possible start at St Andrews and go on to achieve their full potential.
Find out more about Supported Pathways (PDF) .
Gateway programmes offer a number of routes into specific science subjects, medicine (as an alternative to S6) or the Faculty of Arts.
FE-HE Pathway to Arts and FE-HE Pathway to Science offer supported entry to applicants studying towards alternative entry qualifications at further education colleges.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/part-time/summer-courses:
The University of St Andrews offers a number of summer courses each year.
These courses are taught by full-time members of the faculties of the University and are open to students and individuals from around the world.
For students who are interested in experiencing what it is like to study at the University of St Andrews or are looking for a taste of university life, a summer school may be the perfect opportunity.
The University also designs tailored courses for a range of educational institutions and other organisations.
If you have any enquiries, please contact the email address found on the individual course page.
These courses give high-school students aged 16 to 18 the chance to experience student life at the University.
These short summer courses are for users of English as an additional language who are considering Master's level study at an English-medium university in the future.
The School of Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of St Andrews offers two residential geology programmes in Scotland during the summer semester.
Experience the history of medieval Scotland first-hand on this four-week credit bearing course.
Discover more about our global summer schools for international undergraduate students.
Take credit-bearing courses whilst getting a taste of Scottish culture and the St Andrews student experience.
The University hosts a week-long summer school each year which intended for state school pupils currently in S5 (Scotland) or Year 12 (England/Wales), Year 13 (Northern Ireland).
The Music Centre offers a range of short courses for those interested in performing, writing or conducting music.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/medicine/stand-alone-modules:
We offer a range of stand-alone online modules in health professions education, each accredited at SCQF Level 11.
These part-time, 15-credit modules run from September to December and are delivered entirely online.
They include approximately two hours of synchronous online teaching every fortnight, supplemented by self-study.
These modules allow you to explore specialist topics within health professions education and can also serve as an introduction or return to academic study at this postgraduate level.
The stand-alone modules also form part of a full Health Professions Education online programme which cultivates teaching practice that instils the principles and values of interprofessional education to support the development of the future and current healthcare work force.
The Health Professions Education programme can be studied at PGCert, PGDip and MSc level.
Find out more.
Register your interest Apply now
All available stand-alone modules.
This module highlights considerations for designing, developing, implementing and evaluating a short programme or course of study within health professions education.
This module explores contemporary global issues in health professions education relevant to academic and health or social care contexts.
This module focuses on various considerations associated with the design, delivery and assessment in interprofessional education.
This module explores a range of arts and humanities approaches to optimize, broaden and deepen learning outcomes within health professions education.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/policy:
Admissions policy:
The Admissions policy and admissions practices are supported by other relevant documents:
See information on the admission and registration of exchange and study abroad students .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/entry:
The University of St Andrews offers a variety of flexible entry options in order to ensure our doors remain open to all students, regardless of background or personal circumstances.
Although entry to St Andrews is competitive, we recognise a range of different qualifications and consider all aspects of your application, including context, your personal statement and references.
Grades alone will not guarantee you admission, and actual offers may be higher or lower than the listed minimum grades required by each programme .
Information about our entry requirements can be found in academic entry explained .
Academic requirements information on the country pages below is for general guidance.
We consider each application on its own merits according to our admissions policy .
The University also offers alternative entry routes for applicants who come from areas where we receive limited applications and who are unable to obtain the required grades, or for those who are returning to education after an extended period of time.
For more information, please contact the Admissions team .
The University recognises the following qualifications for undergraduate entry.
Specific grades are dependent on each programme .
The grades listed are the range of likely grades considered for an offer, but many factors are taken into consideration when making offers, including context, your personal statement and references.
See the University's use of contextual data .
This information is for general guidance; we consider each application on its own merits, as outlined in the admissions policy.
For postgraduate entry requirements please see ‘Entry requirements by country’ below.
The University's ambition is to see equity of access across the country, regardless of socio-economic background.
We pledge to make an offer to all UK applicants who:
To support our students from the most disadvantaged areas in Scotland while at the University we will:
There are several alternative entry routes available for students presenting Access criteria .
There are a number of alternative routes into degree programmes at the University are tailored for talented Scottish students who have not been able to obtain the top grades required for entry for traditional degree programmes.
The University offers the following alternative routes:
If you are an international student interested in Gateway programmes, please see International Foundation programmes.
Please select your country from the A–Z list below to view the entry requirements and further information on academic and English language entry requirements, along with tuition fee guidance.
You may also satisfy entry requirements with other equivalent qualifications.
If your qualifications are not published here, please contact the Admissions team .
Search for entry requirements

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/ancient-history:
Study the politics, social and cultural history of the ancient Mediterranean world.
Delve into the history of the ancient Greeks and Romans, and learn about their interactions with their neighbours, such as the Persians, Carthaginians and Phoenicians.
Courses at St Andrews will teach you to draw on a wide range of evidence – such as the writings of ancient historians, art and archaeology - to study topics such as:
You can take the Ancient History MA and the Ancient History and Archaeology MA with another subject as part of a joint degree.
Find out more about taking a joint Honours degree .
These courses provide supported entry into degree-level study for applicants who do not meet the minimum entry grades, but meet contextual criteria.
International Foundation programmes enable international students from a wide range of countries to develop the necessary skills to meet the demands of an undergraduate degree programme across subjects and disciplines at the University of St Andrews.
The School of Classics offers PhD and MPhil research programmes and supervises on the following topics:
To apply, you should first identify and contact a potential supervisor you would like to work with in your intended research area.
Find out how to contact a research supervisor .
“I chose Ancient History as St Andrews offers a broad range of classes taught around the research interests of the lecturers, so going into the class you know that it is a topic being actively researched and contributed to by the people teaching you.”
Guardian University Guide 2023
The Complete University Guide 2023
Most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021)
The University of St Andrews has been a centre for classical studies since its foundation in 1413, and the School of Classics continues to build on its reputation for both teaching and research.
The University offers a variety of flexible entry options in order to allow all students, regardless of background or personal circumstances, to apply.
Scholarships and funding options are available at every level of study.
St Andrews has variety of accommodation options to suit all tastes and budgets.
If you’re interested in studying at St Andrews, join us at a visiting day or talk and tour to explore the town, find out about our courses and meet current students.
You can also join us for one of our upcoming online events.
Book a place

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/arabic:
Master the official language of the 22 members of the Arab League and one of the six official languages of the United Nations (UN).
Arabic is one of the strongest links uniting countries as diverse as Iraq and Morocco, and understanding this language is increasingly important in modern politics and international relations.
At St Andrews, you will not only learn the Arabic language, but also study Arab and wider Middle Eastern history, medieval and modern Arabic literature, and Islamic studies.
Arabic is not offered as a single Honours degree at St Andrews, but it can be taken in combination with a wide variety of other subjects as part of a joint degree.
These courses provide supported entry into degree-level study for applicants who do not meet the minimum entry grades, but meet contextual criteria:
The School of Modern Languages offers PhD, MPhil and MSt (Res) research programmes .
Research interests in the School cover many aspects of language studies, including:
“It is amazing to have the opportunity to put your language skills to use within a real-life context and rewarding to be able to read a piece of literature or watch a film and understand what is happening.
It makes all the hours of studying worth it.”
The School offers a truly global approach with specialists across eight languages – Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Persian, Russian and Spanish – as well as Comparative Literature.
Expertise spans from the Middle Ages to the present day and includes prose, poetry, theatre, film, history, translation, and material culture.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/archaeology:
Understand and unlock past societies by examining their material culture.
At St Andrews, you can explore a wide chronological and geographical area, from the Bronze Age to the medieval periods, and from the Mediterranean to Scotland.
Use the University’s own collections to examine material such as pottery and learn new techniques.
Modules and degrees involving archaeology at St Andrews lay the foundation for you to take a specialist position anywhere in the world, including in conservation studies, cultural heritage, museums, or teaching.
You can take the Ancient History and Archaeology MA with another subject as part of a joint degree.
Archaeological research at St Andrews is distributed through several Schools and Departments, but most are interested with the culture and society of historical periods.
The strength of archaeological-related research at St Andrews is in the areas of:
To apply for a postgraduate research degree, you should first identify and contact a potential supervisor you would like to work with in your intended research area.
Find out how to contact a research supervisor.
The School of Classics is one of the leading Schools for archaeological study at St Andrews.
Its main strengths are in the archaeology of the Mediterranean world.
The School of History contributes to the teaching and research of archaeology at St Andrews, particularly concerning medieval Europe and Scotland.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/art-history:
Critically assess art from the medieval period to the present day, and learn to analyse its style, content, meaning, theory and aesthetics.
At St Andrews, you will focus on the major arts of painting, sculpture and architecture, but your studies can also encompass applied art, performance art, graphic art and photography.
You can take the Art History MA with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Art History offers PhD and MPhil research degrees .
Research strengths and supervision areas include:
To apply, you should first identify and contact a potential supervisor you would like to work with in your intended research area.
“I love how versatile the degree is and how engaging the lectures are.
I really value the emphasis on independent research and the range of subjects to study.
I like the open-minded attitude of the School of Art History and the small class sizes – you really receive individualised attention.
St Andrews strikes the perfect balance between academic rigour and university life.
The friendships you cultivate and the calibre of the education you receive is outstanding.”
The School of Art History provides excellent undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in a broad range of art subjects going from the medieval to modern periods.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/biology:
From understanding how molecules and cells work to the study of entire ecosystems, biology at St Andrews covers all aspects of the natural world.
Teaching and research is interdisciplinary, spanning the biological, geographical, and psychological sciences.
Biology at St Andrews specialises in:
The Biology BSc (Hons) can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Biology offers both PhD and MSc(Res) programmes.
Research in biology at St Andrews covers the full spectrum of biological science research, spanning the investigations on the properties and behaviour of individual molecules to planetary environmental dynamics.
“A big motivation of mine for studying at St Andrews was the excellent research that is being carried out.
As a biologist with the aim of going into research, it was important to me that the university had the facilities and people that would drive me in that direction.
I love how personal the teaching style is here – students are welcome to chat to the lecturers and they are always happy to help.”
Complete University Guide 2023
With purpose-built facilities, the School of Biology at St Andrews is recognised as a world leader.
Students are taught by subject experts and get the opportunity to conduct both lab-based and field-based study across Scotland and abroad.
School research is diverse and positively impacts on the public, commercial bodies, governments and international organisations.
The School of Geography and Sustainable Development studies the Earth’s systems with its landscapes, peoples, places and environments.
Teaching and research cover the breadth of the geography discipline, bringing together expertise in the social and natural sciences.
Students interested in the biology side of geography and sustainable development may take up modules offered by this School.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/chemistry:
Learn the science that drives the world around us, from designing new materials to keeping the air we breathe pure, from creating medicines to building efficient ways to generate energy.
At St Andrews, you will be prepared for a career in chemical-related industries such as fuels, pharmaceuticals and fragrances.
You will also be able to concentrate on our key chemical specialities:
You can take the Chemistry BSc and Chemistry MChem programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Chemistry offers PhD, MSc (Res) and MPhil programmes .
Research in chemistry is focused on five broad themes:
See research staff by chemistry theme .
“I think it is incredible to learn about the subject from leading experts in the field, and to have them help us along when we are in laboratories and lectures.
We are given the tools to undertake projects on our own at a very early stage in our academic careers so by the time we graduate we will be skilled to enter industrial laboratories and pursue postgraduate research with ease.”
The School of Chemistry offers a diverse range of contemporary chemical study options alongside award-winning research in areas tackling sustainability, energy, and the effective management of societal resources.
Students interested in applying knowledge of chemistry to sustainable development may take up modules offered by this School.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/chinese-studies:
Chinese is the most-spoken language in the world.
At St Andrews, Chinese studies focus on the linguistic and cultural entity that is China and the Chinese-speaking world today.
Go beyond language acquisition and be exposed to the breadth and depth of Chinese cultural practices.
Chinese studies encompass mainstream, popular and dissident cultures, in all their national, regional, ethnic and diasporic diversity.
Chinese Studies at St Andrews is not offered as a single Honours degree, but it can be taken in combination with a wide variety of other subjects as part of a joint degree.
Find out how to contact a research supervisor .
The Department of Chinese Studies within the School offers teaching and postgraduate supervision of the linguistic and cultural entity that is China and the Chinese-speaking world today.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/classical-studies:
Classical studies courses explore all aspects of the Greek and Roman world, including not just literature but also art, architecture, philosophy, religion and responses to the Greeks and Romans from the Renaissance to the modern world.
Because texts are studied in translation for Classical Studies, a greater amount of material can be covered, so that the degree is one of remarkable range and depth.
Specialists in Greek, Latin and Ancient History work closely together to provide a course which combines the study of history and literature, Greece and Rome, art and thought.
There is no compulsory linguistic element to the course although you do have the option to try some ancient Greek or Latin at beginners level, and pursue the language if you wish.
You can take the Classical Studies MA , Classics MA , Greek MA and Latin MA programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
“What I find most valuable about Classical Studies is the variety of disciplines and ideas that I have the chance to explore: history, social studies, languages and literature studies.
There is also plenty of scope for creativity and independent thought in your work.
The flexibility of the St Andrews sub- honours structure exposes you to so many new ideas and ways of thinking and working that can enrich your own degree pathway.”
The most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/classics-greek-latin:
The study of classics, Greek and Latin at St Andrews immerses students in works of literature of enormous richness that have provided inspiration for so many areas of later western literature, culture and thought.
Greek courses at St Andrews teaches students to appreciate the history, social values, religion and philosophy of the ancient world.
Greek modules cover a variety of areas from the archaic period through to late antiquity.
Latin courses at St Andrews teaches students the language that is the ancestor of many European languages through the study of epic poetry to historiography and letter-writing.
Latin modules cover a vast timeline from the pre-classical period to the Middle Ages.
Studying classics combines the study of Greek and Latin literature and language from archaic Greece to the Late Roman Empire, all around the Mediterranean world and beyond.
You can take the Classics MA , Greek MA , Latin MA and Classical Studies MA programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
“The lively debates and discussions both inside and outside of class pose both a welcome academic challenge as well as foster a real sense of community.
I started Latin and Greek as a beginner and am now confidently studying both at Honours.”

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/comparative-literature:
Explore a range of literatures from around the world translated into English and gain an exceptionally broad perspective on different literary genres, periods, themes and movements.
By studying comparative literature at St Andrews, you will gain insight into the importance of translation work and how to read across cultures.
The literature studied is translated from Arabic, Persian, French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish languages.
Comparative Literature can also be taken in combination with a wide variety of other subjects as part of a joint degree.
It is also possible to combine a degree in Comparative Literature with two modern languages in a triple degree.
Any combination of Arabic, French, German, Italian, Russian or Spanish is available.
The School of Modern Languages offers PhD, MPhil, and MSt (Res) research programmes .
“With texts from a wide range of countries and a variety of genres (novels to movies to paintings), Comparative Literature is perfectly suited to an increasingly globalised and intermedial world.
The focus on contemporary cultural discourses has proved to be very useful in my joint course with Modern History, as well as helping me secure internships in museums and research institutes.”
The Department of Comparative Literature within the School has subject specialists who lead classes on a broad range of literary genres.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science:
Learn about cutting-edge developments in computer science, and develop strong practical software development skills.
With access to state-of-the-art facilities and renowned teaching staff, computer science courses at St Andrews are world leading.
St Andrews specialises in the following areas of computer science:
The Computer Science BSc (Hons) can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Computer Science at St Andrews offers PhD, EngD and MRes programmes.
Research in computer science typically falls into one of five main themes:
Find out how to apply .
The Guardian University Guide 2023
The School of Computer Science is a centre of excellence for teaching and research.
Globally recognised, the School’s research focuses on the core themes of theoretical and practical computer science.
Alumni of the School have gone on to find employment in global technology companies including Amazon, Google and Microsoft.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/creative-writing:
Discover your strengths as a writer and develop your own original voice.
At St Andrews, you can specialise in poetry, prose, or drama.
You will be mentored by published fiction writers, playwrights and poets who are familiar with the writing process and the creative industry.
St Andrews does not offer a single Honours degree in creative writing, but undergraduates studying English may choose some creative writing modules.
The Creative Writing research group offers undergraduate instruction and mentorship in poetry, fiction, and drama.
You can take the English MA (Hons) with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of English offers two Master of Fine Arts degrees in creative writing and Playwriting & Screenwriting .
The creative writing PhD is recommended only for students who can demonstrate equal ability in both academic research and creative work.
If you are interested in taking a PhD in creative writing, you should first contact the most suitable supervisor for your project with a draft of your research proposal and a sample of original writing.
The School of English at the University of St Andrews has a long and distinguished history.
Today, the School enjoys an international reputation as a centre for both academic research and literary creativity.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/digital-education:
The University of St Andrews offers MSc Digital Education both in St Andrews and online, and all courses begin in either September or January.
Online courses are generally studied part-time, over a couple of years.
Students study a combination of compulsory and optional modules so they can focus on areas of particular interest to them and their future careers.
“Studying in the department at the University of St Andrews is definitely a rewarding experience.
Teachers who are always ready to help, small classes where everyone has the opportunity to voice their opinions, walks along the beach when things stress you out...
those memories of studying in this lovely seaside town will always stay in my mind.
As a result of my studies in St Andrews, I now have a teaching post at a transnational university in China.”
The International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute delivers:
Institute staff have worked in a wide variety of contexts and countries and are committed and passionate about education, English language teaching, innovation and research.
If you are unable to visit St Andrews before you apply, IELLI offers online information sessions to discuss the programmes.
Learn more

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/digital-humanities:
Through a combination of theory, case studies and project-based learning taught by the Schools of Modern Languages and Computer Science, you will acquire the research skills and computational methods necessary to study and curate human culture and explore the capabilities, limitations and risks of digital technologies, including AI, and their impact on the arts and industry.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/divinity:
At St Andrews we explore the shape of religious belief and practice in our society.
Studies focus primarily on Christian faith practices and consider the profound influence that the Jewish and Christian scriptures have had on Western civilisation.
Our courses address both the significance of faith today and challenges to it.
Divinity at St Andrews is open to those with different goals in mind: some may be looking to expand their worldview and scholarly knowledge, while others are looking to expand their own faith commitments or to be ordained.
You can take the Biblical Studies MA and Theological Studies MA programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The Hebrew MA and New Testament MA programmes are not offered as a single Honours degree and can only be taken in combination with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Divinity offers PhD, MPhil and MSt (Res) research programmes .
Research in divinity typically falls into one of these themes:
Find out how to apply for a divinity postgraduate research programme by visiting the School of Divinity’s research degrees page .
“I enjoy the close community in the School, not just between students but also with staff who are really engaging and helpful.
As my classes are quite small I have great access to ask questions and get advice, whether it be through an email or in person.
Also, studying in the King James Library is a great reminder of how lucky I am to be able to study here.”
The School of Divinity has been dedicated to the study of divinity since 1579.
It is committed to the historical integrity of the classical disciplines of divinity, and to the technical, historical, and linguistic competencies that support them.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/earth-environmental-sciences:
Understand and explore the natural processes that shape the planet and its environment.
Learn about topics ranging from current climate change to the formation of mountain belts, or modern ocean acidification to the management of natural resources.
At the University of St Andrews you will benefit from a world-class education and be taught by leading scientists in the field.
You can take the Geology BSc programme with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Earth and Environmental Sciences offers PhD research programmes .
Research within the School is grouped into three main themes :
“I chose St Andrews because of the multitude of fieldwork opportunities within and outside of Scotland.
The staff are incredibly dedicated to their students and the result is a lively and positive atmosphere.
I had absolutely no need to worry about making friends – there are so many University events, societies and sporting activities to get involved in, which means you are always going to find like-minded people.”
The School of Earth and Environmental Sciences is a scientific community that studies the Earth and its neighbours in space.
The School's vision for the future is to define the cutting edge of Earth, environmental, and planetary science, and deliver unparalleled student education.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/economics:
Economics is a social science concerning the production, distribution and consumption of goods and services, whilst finance is the study of managing available funds.
Economics and finance courses at St Andrews provide structured explorations of key concepts, analysis and techniques.
Economics and Financial Economics are available as both a Bachelor of Science (BSc) and a Master of Arts (MA) degree.
The content of the subjects is the same irrespective of Faculty .
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study Economics or Financial Economics alongside Science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying Economics or Financial Economics alongside Arts subjects , the MA may be of interest instead.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours Economics and Financial Economics degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
The Economics BSc (Hons) and Economics MA (Hons) can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The following courses include aspects of economics and finance and may also be of interest:
University of St Andrews Business School offers PhD programmes in Economics.
Economics research typically falls into one of three main themes:
"I was attracted to the combination of quantitative and qualitative elements in the subject –microeconomics has a strong mathematical foundation, while macroeconomics and economic history involve essay assignments.
I appreciated the flexibility in sub-honours as I studied Economics and Psychology for my first two years and additionally took modules in Management and Comparative Literature in my first year."
Guardian University Guide 2022
The Complete University Guide 2022
On Tuesday 1 August 2023, the School of Economics and Finance and the School of Management merged to create the University of St Andrews Business School.
The University of St Andrews Business School and its three departments – Economics, Finance and Management – will build on the strengths of the former School of Economics and Finance and School of Management, both ranked in the top five of their subject areas in the UK and will be uniquely St Andrews: world-leading, diverse, digital, sustainable and entrepreneurial.
The University of St Andrews Business School officially launched in August 2024, after a 12-month transition process.
Former School names may still appear in logos, branding, documentation, online and on-campus.
These will be phased out and replaced with new department names.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/english:
Study a wide range of English, Scottish, Irish, American and world literature from Anglo-Saxon times to the present day.
At St Andrews, English is taught by notable scholars and leading creative writers who challenge you to consider the ideas, human values and history behind a broad variety of texts.
The English MA (Hons) can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The MLitt in English Literature is offered through pathways which develop well-rounded expertise in the literature of a period through a mix of core and option choice modules.
A flexible pathway allows you to create your own programme of study.
The School of English at St Andrews offers PhD, MPhil and MSt(Res) programmes .
Research in English typically falls into one of four main groups:
The University also offers two MFA degrees, one in Creative Writing and another in Playwriting & Screenwriting .
“The most important thing about English for me is the ability to think outside of the box and consider texts in new lights.
Learning everything from Anglo-Saxon poetry in its original language to contemporary theatre offers such a wealth of information about the development of literature.
All of my tutors are incredibly supportive of approaching texts in an unconventional manner to create new and interesting analyses.”

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/film-studies:
Understand the media that shapes our world.
As a film studies student, you will explore a range of films and other screen media - mainstream and peripheral - from around the world, examining the contexts in which they are made, seen and used.
You can take the Film Studies MA programme with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The Department of Film Studies offers PhD research programmes in film studies.
The Department maintains a vibrant and comprehensive research programme from early cinema and its contexts to contemporary film and media.
“The depth in which I am encouraged to think about and discuss film has improved my overall skills of critical thinking.
The lecturers present us with texts and ideas outside of our usual frame of reference and encourage us to formulate our own point of view, even in contentious areas of debate.
The work is hard but if you are studying something you are passionate about, it is more than worth it.”
The Department of Film Studies covers the breadth of film and media studies.
It is dedicated to the study of cinema from a global perspective, moving beyond the canon of Hollywood and European film to engage with a diverse range of practices, cultures, movements, genres, and forms.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/finance:
Finance encompasses banking, investments and corporate finance.
Our programmes explore key financial concepts, contemporary issues in global financial systems, and cutting-edge methods of financial data analysis.
University of St Andrews Business School offers PhD programmes in Finance.
Finance research typically falls into one of three main themes:
" The highlight of my programme has been the guest speakers who have come in and given talks on many different topics that have helped shaped my dissertation topic.
Everyone I have met has been extremely friendly.
Following my degree my plans are to work for an investment management company in London.”
Guardian Good University Guide 2023
On Tuesday 1 August 2023, the School of Economics and Finance and the School of Management merged to create University of St Andrews Business School.
The Business School and its three departments – Economics, Finance and Management – will build on the strengths of the former School of Economics and Finance and School of Management, both ranked in the top five of their subject areas in the UK and will be uniquely St Andrews – world-leading, diverse, digital, sustainable, and entrepreneurial.
The Business School will officially launch in August 2024, after a 12-month transition process.
During this transition year, education delivery and research will not change.
The departments’ former school names may still appear in logos, branding, documentation, online and on-campus during the academic year 2023/2024.
These will be phased out and replaced with new department names between August 2023 and August 2024.
On Tuesday 1 August 2023, the School of Management and the School of Economics and Finance merged to create University of St Andrews Business School.
The Business School and its three departments – Economics, Finance and Management – will build on the strengths of the former  School of Management and School of Economics and Finance, both ranked in the top five of their subject areas in the UK and will be uniquely St Andrews – world-leading, diverse, digital, sustainable, and entrepreneurial.
You can also join us for one of our upcoming virtual events.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/french:
By studying French at St Andrews, you will explore all the debates, contradictions and extraordinary creativity that characterise contemporary France and the French-speaking world.
Develop a high level of competency in language skills alongside cultural awareness and other crucial transferable skills.
Learn from native speakers and specialists in French studies, who cover francophone identity and culture from the Middle Ages to the present day.
You can take the French MA (Hons) with another subject or subjects as part of a joint or triple degree.
The full list of joint and triple degree options are available on the course page .
“My teachers are so kind and knowledgeable – it's great to be taught by people who are so enthusiastic about their subject.
The best part of my degree has been my year abroad in Perpignan where I made fantastic friends, ate lots of pastries, and put my learning into practice.
St Andrews has sparked my love of languages, and given me so many wonderful opportunities – merci beaucoup!"
The Department of French within the School focuses on French language, literature, intellectual history, contemporary society, and francophone studies.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/geography:
Bridge the gap between human society and the physical environment, and find solutions to some of humanity’s most pressing problems, such as environmental change, population dynamics, biodiversity loss and global inequalities.
Geography modules at St Andrews will prepare you to research complex societal and environmental projects for the benefit of all.
Geography is available as both a Bachelor of Science (BSc) and a Master of Arts (MA) degree.
The content of the subject is the same irrespective of Faculty .
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study Geography alongside Science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying Geography alongside Arts subjects , the MA may be of interest instead.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours Geography degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
You can take the Geography BSc and Geography MA programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Geography and Sustainable Development offers PhD, MSc (Res) and MSt (Res) research programmes.
The School specialises in the following research areas:
The postgraduate research page provides more information on research opportunities and how to apply.
“I like the independence of study which is encouraged here.
Over time I have grown in confidence as a result of guidance from my lecturers and tutors, although they also take a step back when necessary.
At the University you meet a wonderfully diverse group of people in all walks of life, from halls to clubs to the weird and wonderful traditions.”
The School of Geography and Sustainable Development integrates the study of the Earth's system with its landscapes, peoples, places and environments.
Teaching and research bring together expertise in the social and natural sciences to examine and develop the principles and practice of sustainable development.
The Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies was established to foster interdisciplinary postgraduate education and scholarship.
Students benefit from being part of a welcoming School that is wholly focused on understanding and meeting the needs of Masters students.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/german:
Germany today is the political, economic, artistic and intellectual powerhouse of the European Union.
Knowledge of the mother tongue of 100 million people has never been more important for governments, businesses and private citizens.
At St Andrews, you can follow your own particular interests by choosing from a broad range of course options that reflect and explore the rich cultural heritage of the German-speaking lands, including:
You can take the German MA (Hons) with another subject as part of a joint or triple Honours degree.
The list of joint and triple degree options with German are listed on the course webpage .
The School of Modern Languages offers PhD, MPhil, and MSt (Res) research programmes .
Research interests in the School cover many aspects of language studies, including:
"Studying German here is a wonderful experience – there is always an exciting aspect of the language, history, or culture to explore.
The constant support of staﬀ, coupled with the opportunity to study with students from all over the world in small classes, creates a very welcoming atmosphere both in and outside the classroom."
The Department of German within the School offers an imaginative, challenging, modern and diverse approach to studying German.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/history:
From medieval to modern, Scotland to the Middle East, studying history at St Andrews offers you a broad and varied portfolio of courses to specialise in.
Historians at St Andrews study the histories of religion, politics, law, commerce, science and the environment across all periods.
Renowned research combined with teaching excellence offers a dynamic and intellectually stimulating environment for the study of history.
The Ancient History MA , Medieval History MA , Middle East Studies MA , Modern History MA and Scottish History MA can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of History offers PhD and MSt(Res) programmes.
Research in history typically falls into one of three areas:
“This is a small and welcoming community.
You can take a wide range of courses and combine History classes with modules from other Schools and Departments in your first two years.
There is also the ability to combine studying here with exchange programmes in Europe or beyond, which provides a fantastic undergraduate experience.”
The School of History is one of the largest arts and humanities Schools within the University that prides itself on small group teaching to secure the best for each student.
School research spans from late antiquity through to late modernity with researchers exploring the ways that knowledge, people, goods and beliefs move through time and space.
The School of Classics provides wide-ranging teaching and research from archaic Greece to the late Roman Empire, all around the Mediterranean world and beyond.
History students interested in ancient history or archaeology may take modules offered by this School.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/interdisciplinary:
Learn across subject boundaries and develop practical skills with an interdisciplinary degree from St Andrews.
Interdisciplinary courses draw on experts material from across the University so students have a more rounded understanding of contemporary issues.
The Sustainable Development BSc (Hons) and Sustainable Development MA (Hons) programmes can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
As a prospective PhD, MSc(Res) or MSt(Res) student, you will apply to work with an individual supervisor or supervisory team within a School or institute , and not a specific programme of study.
It is therefore important that you look at staff research interests within the University and ensure that your project matches an existing area of research .
Please contact a supervisor in your research area to inquire about PhD opportunities.
“The interdisciplinary nature of the Graduate School is unique.
Our lecturers come from all kinds of backgrounds including anthropology, international relations, economics, and management.”
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023
The Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies was established to foster interdisciplinary postgraduate education and scholarship.
Students benefit from being part of a welcoming School that is wholly focused on understanding and meeting the needs of Masters students.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/international-education:
The University of St Andrews offers MSc International Education both in St Andrews and online, and all courses begin in either September or January.
The International Education Institute delivers:
If you are unable to visit St Andrews before you apply, the International Education Institute offers virtual information sessions to discuss the programmes.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/ifp:
International Foundation programmes enable international students from a wide range of countries to develop the necessary skills to meet the demands of an undergraduate degree programme at the University of St Andrews.
These international pathway courses provide excellent preparation, combining academic subjects with language development alongside the skillset for successful study at a British university.
Find out why you should study an international foundation programme .
International Year One and International Year Zero courses for September 2026 entry will open for applications soon.
If you have any questions, please email ifp@st-andrews.ac.uk .
“My international foundation year, and the flexibility of the University of St Andrews' study options, allowed me to take part in different modules and find which subjects aligned with my interests.
I had the opportunity to become a student ambassador and to attend academic forums.
As a result of my foundation year, when I entered the first year of university, I was fully prepared, unafraid of challenges and created strong academic bonds with other students, professors, and mentors.”
The International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute (IELLI) offers postgraduate degrees and training in education and multidisciplinary pathway courses for international students, as well as innovative academic courses and support activities for all learners.
See the English language requirements and evidence you must show for International Foundation programmes.
Applying for an international foundation programme is easy.
It is free to apply, and there is no entrance test.
Discover what makes a St Andrews' international foundation programme one of the best options for international students.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/international-relations:
Explore global issues in relation to the world of politics and international law, in times of peace and conflict.
At St Andrews, students draw on areas from diplomatic history and international law as well as political theory, economy and science to explain conflict and cooperation.
Gain insight into theoretical perspectives from areas including:
The International Relations MA can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of International Research at St Andrews offers PhD and MPhil programmes.
Research in international relations typically falls into one of three main themes :
Applicants for research degrees in the School of International Relations are not required to determine a potential supervisor before applying.
Applicants are encouraged to express a supervisor preference in their application; however, the allocation of applicants to supervisors is undertaken by the School's postgraduate committee.
Find out about how to apply for a research degree in International Relations .
“I chose to study international relations because I find it genuinely fascinating.
Moreover, international relations will always remain important because politics is ever-changing and keeps moving forward.
The topics covered, especially as you specialise, are very interesting and are all taught by experts in the field.”
The School of International Relations is highly recognised for the quality of research and teaching in areas ranging from foreign policy to terrorism and political violence.
Courses are designed to ensure students are up to date with current developments in global issues.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/italian:
From fashion and food to art and literature, music and cinema, Italian culture has a global presence well beyond the borders of Italy and spanning centuries.
The Italian language is the key to fully unlocking and engaging with this rich and influential culture from the inside.
Courses in Italian take place in relatively small groups at all levels, which helps teachers follow your progress closely.
St Andrews has particular expertise in:
You can take the Italian MA with another subject or subjects as part of a joint or triple degree.
Find out more about taking a joint Honours degree and discover the full list of joint and triple degree options on the course webpage .
“I chose to study Italian, French and Spanish.
The option to do a triple degree programme means I can further my language skills and learn more.
I really enjoy the small classes and that we have cultural lessons built into the degree.”
Compete University Guide 2023
The Department of Italian within the School has expertise and experience in teaching Italian to both complete beginners and advanced learners.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/management:
Learn how organisations operate, behave, and create value.
At St Andrews, management is regarded through the lens of responsible enterprise, with concepts such as ethical approaches and environmental impact integrated into research and teaching.
Gain insight into how business and management function and explore areas including:
Management is available as both a Bachelor of Science (BSc) and a Master of Arts (MA) degree.
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study Management alongside Science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying Management alongside Arts subjects , the MA may be of interest instead.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours Management degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
The Management BSc and Management MA programmes can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
These courses provide supported entry into degree-level study for applicants who do not meet the minimum entry grades, but meet contextual criteria.
For postgraduate taught MRes, see PhD and MRes programmes .
University of St Andrews Business School offers PhD and MRes programmes.
Research in management typically falls into one of three main groups:
“I like how the lecturers allow us space to develop our own learning and study styles within the context of our core courses.
It really taught me how to take the initiative, communicate with staff and enhance my academic writing.
St Andrews is full of passionate and friendly students and provides a melting pot of international perspectives in both academic and everyday life.”

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/marine-biology:
Dive into the marine world and study the diversity of life from the deep sea to estuaries.
Beyond evolutionary and behavioural biology, learn about the conservation and management of marine environments and how to protect these valuable and vulnerable ecosystems.
St Andrews is located on the shores of the North Sea near grey and common seal colonies and bottlenose dolphin feeding areas.
This makes it the ideal place to study marine wildlife in its natural habitat.
Fieldwork and diving expeditions to locations such as the Antarctic and Indonesia are also options for many programmes.
The School of Biology offers PhD and MSc(Res) programmes in marine biology .
Research on marine topics within the School is grouped into three main themes:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/mathematics:
Studying mathematics will teach you to understand complex patterns and structures, and to develop the tools with which to analyse them.
Whether these patterns relate to physical or biological phenomena or the structure of mathematics itself, the primary aim is to describe, categorise, and understand the processes involved.
Students will acquire the analytical techniques, clear logical thinking and deductive reasoning necessary to explore some of these fascinating areas of research.
At St Andrews, mathematics students can study a broad range of mathematics and statistics, or specialise in either pure or applied mathematics.
If you want to specialise in statistics, see the statistics page .
Mathematics is studied up to Honours level in both the Faculty of Science (BSc) and the Faculty of Arts (MA).
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study mathematics alongside science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying mathematics alongside Arts subjects, the MA in Mathematics may be of interest instead.
The BSc and MA degree programmes are mathematically identical.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours mathematics degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
Second-year entry is possible to the BSc, but not to the MA.
The MMath is an undergraduate Masters degree.
It allows you to combine undergraduate and postgraduate study into a single five-year programme, from which you will graduate with a Masters degree.
The MMath degree is in the Science faculty, and it is straightforward to change between the BSc and the MMath (you do not need additional qualifications to do so).
You can take the Mathematics BSc , Mathematics MA , Mathematics MMath , Statistics BSc , and Statistics MA programmes alongside another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Mathematics and Statistics offers PhD programmes in the following research areas:
“The academics are great, and it is reassuring to know that they are there to help you with whatever you need.
It is important to me that the maths that I do has the ability to be useful to the public and affect society for the better, therefore my interest is being piqued by the mathematics of medicine and mathematical modelling.”
The School of Mathematics and Statistics covers the spectrum of mathematical sciences, including topics in pure and applied mathematics and statistics.
The School offers a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications, taught by recognised experts in their areas.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/medicine:
Prepare to become a medical practitioner or researcher.
Gain the skills to further scientific research or work within the current healthcare environment.
At St Andrews, a highly supportive educational environment provides you with the necessary training to start your professional career.
We offer ScotGEM, ScotCOM, undergraduate degrees in medicine, and postgraduate degrees in health data science and health professions education, as well as stand-alone modules in health professsions education.
The Gateway to Medicine provides supported entry into degree-level study for applicants who do not meet the minimum entry grades but meet contextual criteria.
The School of Medicine offers PhD and MSc (Res) research degree programmes in medicine.
Research interests within the School are typically divided into four areas:
See current postgraduate research opportunities for information on available supervision topics and how to apply.
We offer a range of stand-alone online modules in health professions education , each accredited at SCQF Level 11.
“It is important to me that medicine challenges me to think about what I am learning.
I like that we get exposure to a hospital setting early on in the course as well as learning the different clinical skills that are involved.
The University staff are amazing people - they are kind, helpful, friendly, and they care about you.”
The School of Medicine’s curriculum is designed to meet the General Medical Council’s (GMC) aspirations for future teaching.
The School is based in the Medical and Biological Sciences Building which is superbly equipped with a dissecting room, clinical skills suite, anatomy resource centre and more.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/medieval-studies:
Work across multiple disciplines to understand this fascinating period, from late antiquity to the 15th century, and across the world from the Middle East and the Mediterranean to the British Isles and Scandinavia.
Decipher historical manuscripts, study ancient writing systems, and speak and write in medieval languages.
At St Andrews, you can take on different theoretical approaches in the fields of:
St Andrews does not currently offer a single Honours degree in medieval studies.
However, many undergraduate degree programmes in other subjects include aspects of medievalism, including art history, medieval history, modern languages, archaeology, English, divinity, and philosophy.
Research in medieval studies at St Andrews is distributed through several Schools and Departments.
The University currently has three research centres and institutes related to medieval studies:
To apply for a postgraduate research degree, you should first identify and contact a potential supervisor you would like to work with in your intended research area.
Find out how to contact a research supervisor.
The St Andrews Institute of Medieval Studies (SAIMS) teaches and researches medieval studies through multiple subject lenses.
SAIMS offers both an interdisciplinary MLitt in Medieval Studies and PhD opportunities.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/middle-east-studies:
Learn the history, politics, cultures and languages of the Middle East.
Study at St Andrews covers over 1,500 years from the rise of Islam to the modern Middle East.
This region is culturally diverse and strategically important, making it a valuable subject to study for those interested in government, international relations, and business.
Middle East Studies at St Andrews is not offered as a single Honours degree, but it can be taken in combination with a wide variety of other subjects as part of a joint degree.
Middle East Studies is a highly interdisciplinary subject area with research undertaken in the Schools of History, International Relations and Modern Languages.
To apply for a postgraduate research degree, you should first identify and contact a potential supervisor you would like to work with in your intended research area.
“I chose Middle East Studies because I love learning about the history and causes that affect current events there today - it also pairs well with my other focus (International Relations).
Since so many international students are drawn to St Andrews, the diversity of perspective is valuable to any class discussion.”
The School of History offers a broad and varied portfolio of teaching covering all periods from the fourth century to the present day.
The School has expertise on many regions, including the Middle East.
The School of International Relations is globally recognised for the quality of research and teaching in areas ranging from foreign policy to terrorism and political violence.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/modern-languages:
Modern languages at the University of St Andrews is one of the largest and most diverse subjects of its kind in the UK.
The School offers the opportunity to study Arabic, Persian, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish in depth, alongside Middle East studies and cross-disciplinary programmes in Comparative Literature, Global Languages, Literatures and Cultures, and Global Digital Humanities.
At St Andrews, we believe that high-level language skills go hand-in-hand with studying culture, and that living, studying and working abroad is an integral part of language study.
Some courses can be taken with other subjects to form a joint or triple subject Honours degree.
See individual course pages for details.
Expertise spans from the Middle Ages to the present day and includes literature, theatre, film, history, translation, and material culture.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/music:
Experience the enjoyment of music by making it a part of your degree, taking lessons, or joining a group.
At St Andrews, musical life is active, varied and stimulating.
Whether you are interested in performance or the historical and theoretical aspects of music, you can find a course or lesson to suit you.
The University offers undergraduate modules in music which may be taken as part of any undergraduate degree with the agreement of your academic advisers.
See the list of undergraduate music modules .
The Music Centre may be able to provide co-supervision on PhD projects.
You will need to apply to one of the University’s academic Schools in the first instance, but early discussion with potential supervisors in the Music Centre is advised.
Find out how to contact a research supervisor in the Music Centre .
Music tuition is available to the wider community, not just University staff and students.
You can take lessons and short courses, or join an ensemble or community project.
Find out more about music education and activity for the community .
The Music Centre offers the chance for everyone to enjoy making music while providing exceptional opportunities for those with particular expertise as singers or instrumentalists.
It provides a programme of concerts and public events along with regular visits from internationally renowned performers.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/neuroscience:
Learn the science behind how the brain and the nervous system work, focusing on the scientific understanding of the nervous system from genes to behaviour.
Explore topics such as the neural control of movement, neuropharmacology and disorders of the nervous system, such as motorneuron disease (ALS) and dementia.
At St Andrews, you will gain an understanding of neuroscience from the level of single proteins to higher brain functions such as memory formation and cognitive processing.
You will also have access to state-of-the-art facilities to learn crucial lab skills and gain hands-on experience running your own experiments.
The School of Psychology and Neuroscience offers PhD and MSc (by research) programmes.
Research in psychology and neuroscience typically fall into one of four key themes:
“I have been able to take a breadth of classes, in other Schools too, allowing me to learn a wide range of different skills.
The class size is small, so we are personally guided through the course while also being challenged to think independently.”
Guardian University Guide 2024
The School of Psychology and Neuroscience at St Andrews bridges the two disciplines through internationally recognised research and teaching.
The School promotes a research-based culture of teaching across a wide breadth of psychology and neuroscience topics.
With purpose-built facilities, the School of Biology at St Andrews is recognised as a world leader.
Many modules and courses related to neuroscience are offered by this School.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/persian:
Modern Persian is the national language of countries including Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan.
It is the second language of the Middle East and the Islamic world, making it highly valuable across this geopolitically and economically important region.
Persian studies at St Andrews emphasise:
Persian is not offered as a single Honours degree at St Andrews, but it can be taken in combination with a wide variety of other subjects as part of a joint degree.
It is also possible to take Persian as part of a Modern Languages Honours degree that includes either three languages or two modern languages and one additional subject.
Find out more about the triple subject combinations available with Persian .
“I picked up Persian in the first semester and it has turned out to be an exciting, engaging and thorough course.
There is a fair amount of work to get you to a high standard relatively quickly, but the staff are very supportive and invested in their students.”
The Department of Persian within the School excels in student-focused teaching and has well-established links throughout the University, including with the Schools of History and International Relations.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/philosophy:
Use rational argument to make sense of ourselves and the world we live in.
Explore – and attempt to answer – some of the oldest and most complex questions raised by natural science, art and literature, language and communication, and history.
At St Andrews, you will become grounded in philosophical tradition and learn how to independently assess your own arguments.
You can take the Philosophy MA programme with another subject as part of a joint degree.
Postgraduate PhD and MPhil research degrees are offered by the St Andrews and Stirling Graduate programme in Philosophy (SASP) .
You may also be interested in the St Andrews and Oslo joint PhD in Philosophy or the St Andrews and Amsterdam Global PhD.
“Being able to study contemporary issues in philosophy and not just classical problems is important to me.
I have written essays on topics such as global poverty, slavery, climate change, the philosophy of race, and intergenerational justice.
The teaching style is geared towards encouraging us to learn how to think for ourselves, making us better philosophers.”
The Department of Philosophy is a large centre of philosophical study which offers a range of courses at every level.
The Department provides a rich and varied programme of distinguished visiting scholars and lecturers.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/physics:
Explore and understand the science behind our world and universe, from the atomic and subatomic scale all the way to stars and galaxies.
Learn how this central science underpins ideas in fields such as electronics, lasers, music and semiconductors.
St Andrews is home to state-of-the-art research labs and its own observatory with the largest operational telescope in Scotland.
You can take the Physics BSc , Physics MPhys and Theoretical Physics MPhys programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Physics and Astronomy offers PhD and MSc (res) research opportunities in the following areas:
Read more on postgraduate research opportunities .
“I wanted to study at a university with excellent teaching and lots of contact with the actual research in the field.
I could not have made a better choice!
Studying Physics is undeniably hard, however the supportive atmosphere in the School, the excitement about the subject and the great people who I do it with are worth it.”
The School of Physics and Astronomy provides teaching excellence through small class sizes and accessible staff who enjoy explaining the excitement of physics and astronomy to students.
The School has research expertise in astrophysics, condensed matter, and photonics.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/psychology:
From the study of the brain to the complex social interactions of humans and animals, psychology at St Andrews places an emphasis on research-led teaching delivered by leading academics.
Students studying psychology are taught various topics of modern psychology including:
Psychology is available as both a Bachelor of Science (BSc) and a Master of Arts (MA) degree.
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study Psychology alongside Science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying Psychology alongside Arts subjects , the MA may be of interest instead.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours Psychology degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
The Psychology BSc (Hons) and Psychology MA (Hons) can be taken with another subject as part of a joint degree.
Research in psychology typically falls into one of four key themes:
“I had never studied psychology before, but the School was excellent at introducing me to and keeping me part of this new subject.
Dynamic lectures make topics interesting and engaging.
Psychology is a sociable and comfortable community which I am glad to be a part of.”
The School of Psychology and Neuroscience at St Andrews bridges the two disciplines through internationally recognised research and teaching.
Students in the School become part of an inclusive community that supports equal opportunities and fairness for all.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/russian:
Learn the language of over 300 million people and one of the 6 official languages of the UN.
Knowledge of this language and its diverse histories and cultures is becoming ever more important for international relations today.
In addition to gaining a high level of grammatical and oral aptitude, you will also be able to delve into topics focusing on Russia’s literature, film, cultural history and contemporary society.
You can take the Russian MA (Hons) with another subject or subjects as part of a joint or triple degree.
“I am really interested in studying Russian history, culture and literature, and I really enjoy being taught by people who are so passionate about what they do and so encouraging and lovely.
Moreover, the department encourage and support you in finding your own areas of research interest and pursuing those.”
The Department of Russian within the School combines teaching with internationally recognised research in a range of fields, including literature and thought from the 19th to the 21st centuries.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/social-anthropology:
Examine the diverse ways human beings establish and live social lives.
From Western urban cities to indigenous cultures in the Amazon, you will learn to understand how humans live and think by looking at all aspects of their experience.
St Andrews has particular strengths in the societies of:
The School also provides four accessible modules to the Combined Studies MA which runs in Semester 1 or Semester 2.
The MA Combined Studies degree is designed specifically for those returning to education after a significant break.
Delivered on a part-time basis in the evening, this course is ideal for those who may have other commitments which prevent them from undertaking full-time study.
You can take the Social Anthropology MA programme with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The Department of Social Anthropology offers PhD and MSt (Res) research programmes.
Alongside deep local knowledge in the Americas, Africa, Eurasia and the Pacific, the Department conducts research in areas such as:
“I chose Social Anthropology as a part of my degree as it is the study of what it is to be human.
What makes the anthropological study at St Andrews special are the staff.
It is a fantastic experience to study with them.
Their research (to list a few) includes literary, linguistic, or feminist anthropologies.”
The Department of Social Anthropology champions innovative ethnographic and historical scholarship.
It organises regular research seminars, conferences and workshops to consider established or emerging theoretical issues within the discipline.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/spanish:
Learn the language of more than 500 million people and explore the great continuities and shifts within Spanish and Spanish-American culture, from its early beginnings to today.
At St Andrews, you can study Spanish in many contexts, including:
You can take the Spanish MA (Hons) with another subject or subjects as part of a joint or triple degree.
“Becoming fluent in Spanish has always been a dream of mine – my family speaks Spanish, and I am now able to hold a conversation!
St Andrews offered a pathway not only towards speaking the language, but also an introduction to a whole world of literature previously inaccessible to me.
It has been challenging but my lectures and tutors are wonderfully supportive and make it well worth it!”
The Department of Spanish within the School has interests in socio-linguistics, Golden Age literature, modern and contemporary Spanish, and Spanish-American literature, film and history.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/statistics:
Extrapolate and analyse data to see emerging patterns and apply these to real-life scenarios.
Apply statistical techniques to understand and monitor wildlife populations, improve queue efficiency or estimate stock market probabilities.
Statisticians at St Andrews gain the analytical techniques, logical thinking, and deductive reasoning to apply their knowledge to almost any field.
Statistics is studied up to Honours level in both the Faculty of Science (BSc) and the Faculty of Arts (MA).
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study statistics alongside science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying statistics alongside Arts subjects, the MA in Statistics may be of interest instead.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours statistics degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours statistics degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
You can take the Statistics BSc , Statistics MA , Mathematics BSc , Mathematics MA , and Mathematics MMath programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Mathematics and Statistics offers PhD programmes in the following research areas:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/sustainable-development:
Rise to the challenge and create solutions for the environmental and developmental issues we face today – from providing clean water and adequate sanitation to energy generation and supply.
At St Andrews, you will learn about developmental challenges from many perspectives and use the knowledge you gain to tackle these issues and realise the opportunities they create.
Sustainable Development is available as both a Bachelor of Science (BSc) and a Master of Arts (MA) degree.
The content of the subject is the same irrespective of Faculty.
Students who have a background in the sciences or who wish to study Sustainable Development alongside Science subjects at St Andrews should apply for the BSc.
For those interested in studying Sustainable Development alongside Arts subjects, the MA may be of interest instead.
The entry requirements are the same for all single Honours Sustainable Development degrees, and the chance of receiving an offer is the same for each of these degrees.
You can take the Sustainable Development BSc and Sustainable Development MA programmes with another subject as part of a joint degree.
The School of Geography and Sustainable Development offers PhD, MPhil, MSc (Res) and MSt (Res) research programmes .
Research project opportunities are available in the following areas:
“As Sustainable Development is considered both an arts and a science subject, I have been able to choose from a wide variety of modules.
I have taken ones in biology and anthropology, which have helped me see sustainability ideas and issues in a new light.
St Andrews’ location and environment provides a unique microcosm for practical sustainability projects to take place.”

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/tesol:
The University of St Andrews offers a flexible range of postgraduate TESOL qualifications: MSc degrees, Postgraduate Diplomas and Postgraduate Certificates.
You can study TESOL or a qualification with a specialism in one particular area of TESOL, depending on your interests and career ambitions.
Our courses are offered both in St Andrews and online, and all courses begin in either September or January.
TESOL - with optional specialism MSc/PGDip/PGCert TESOL - online with optional specialism MSc/PGDip/PGCert
All TESOL courses are available to study as a Master of Science (MSc), a Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) or a Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert).
For information on the differences between these degrees, see the qualifications explained page .
Students who have an interest in a particular field of TESOL can also choose one of five specialism to focus their studies on.
Students who choose to study for a TESOL specialism degree follow a similar structure to the TESOL MSc degree and take modules that focus on their chosen specialism.
The five specialisms available are:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/lifelong-learning/courses/pre-sessional:
The International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute (IELLI) provides four pre-sessional courses for students who use English as an additional language and who have an offer to study at the University.
If you do not have an offer to study at the University of St Andrews, you are welcome to apply for our Academic English Qualification Course.
Find out more about our Academic English Qualification Courses .
Pre-sessional courses provide an excellent orientation to the University and enable students to develop:
Email: presessional@st-andrews.ac.uk
There are three pre-sessional courses.
The type of pre-sessional course you can apply to depends mainly on:
As a postgraduate student with an offer with an English language condition, you can apply for any of the following courses:
Your eligibility to apply is also subject to the language requirements in your subject area.
See more on language requirements for pre-degree students
As a postgraduate student with an offer without an English language condition, you can apply for any of the following courses:
Check the pre-sessional eligibility table to get a quick overview on who can apply to each pre-sessional course.
Open all
As an undergraduate student with an offer with an English language condition, you can only apply for the 4-week pre-sessional course.
See more on language requirements for pre-degree students .
As an undergraduate student with an offer without an English language condition, you can only apply for the 4-week pre-sessional course.
A full-time pre-degree course for users of English as an additional language.
Course dates below include compulsory orientation sessions on Thursday 7 August and Friday 8 August 2025.
Undergraduate students with unconditional offers can apply for the Academic Induction course, a two-week introduction to academic study at St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/undergraduate-prospectus:
Download a PDF of our Prospectus.
Information about all of our programmes can also be found on our subject pages .
All information in these publications was correct at the time of going to print.
For any updates to courses, please check the subjects section of the University website.
The Prospectus is also available in large print, braille and audio.
If you require one of these formats, contact the University's EDI Team:
British Sign Language (BSL) users are welcome to contact us through Scotland BSL .
Ask Admissions Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2150

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/postgraduate-prospectus:
For any updates to courses, please check the subjects section of the website .
The prospectus is also available in alternative formats.
If you require an alternative format:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/environment:
The University of St Andrews provides a supportive environment for researchers who can make use of world-class resources found both within the University and those shared with our partners.
There are a number of research committees and forums which influence University policy and practice and ensure research standards are being met.
The University supports a large number of world-class, often cross-disciplinary or cross-institutional, research centres and institutes.
The University is committed to adhering to the highest standards of research integrity and ethics.
UTREC and AWERB oversee all research involving humans and animals to ensure that it meets University standards.
The University is committed to the pivotal role that peer review and expert judgement plays in the assessment of research, but also recognises the value that the responsible use of metrics can play in complementing and supporting decision-making.
The University has a strong track record of business engagement, with St Andrews researchers working with companies across diverse sectors, encompassing everything from large multinationals to micro-SMEs.
The University is an enthusiastic supporter of the Scottish Funding Council strategy of developing research pooling across Scottish higher education institutions.
Research degrees include the MPhil, PhD, DLang, EngD, MSc (Res) and MSt (Res) and require either a good undergraduate degree for the Faculty of Science, or a Masters degree for the Faculties of Arts and Divinity.
The University is committed to promoting and supporting an open and diverse community.
The University has a range of policies in place to ensure the wellbeing of all staff and students.
The wellbeing and engagement group also regularly organise activities, events and promotions around different health and wellbeing themes.
Learn more about our institutional research culture and the work we are doing to support an environment where our researchers can undertake world-leading research of the highest quality.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
Preparations for the University’s submission to the REF are coordinated by Research and Innovation Services.
The University is committed to ensuring that research and innovation is delivered in an environmentally sustainable way.
We are a signatory of the Concordat for Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/global-fellowship-scheme:
For more than five years, the University of St Andrews Global Fellowship Scheme has offered prestigious awards to support outstanding scholars from around the world, enabling them to spend one visit of up to four weeks at St Andrews.
During their visit, Global Fellows have the opportunity to conduct research, explore potential collaborations, strengthen existing partnerships, advance their work, and engage in creative thinking within an inspiring environment.
This scheme continues the University’s longstanding tradition of drawing the brightest minds from across the globe to this historic and vibrant intellectual hub in Europe.
Founded in 1413, St Andrews is the third oldest university in the English-speaking world.
Known for its rich history as well as cutting-edge research and teaching, the university is an innovative Scottish institution with a global orientation, committed to attracting the best minds from around the world.
The University blends the international character of a world-class university with the close-knit feel of a small, historic coastal town.
Its vibrant community, comprising of students, staff, and academics from over 140 countries, enables St Andrews to maintain a global perspective while pursuing excellence in research, teaching, and knowledge creation for the cultural and societal benefit of all.
The University has a strong international focus, fostering long-standing, multifaceted partnerships with a diverse range of universities, research institutes, networks, industries, and government agencies worldwide.
These enduring collaborations span student exchange, collaborative programmes, joint research activities, and professional development.
Each year, the University welcomes visiting academics, students, and delegations from across the globe, contributing to its diverse and vibrant community.
These international collaborations reflect St Andrews' commitment to fostering innovative partnerships and advancing knowledge on a global scale.
As a research-intensive university, St Andrews brings together ambitious scholars to tackle complex global challenges.
The University champions curiosity-driven research and encourages cross-disciplinary collaboration, supported by its compact size and flexible structure across nineteen Academic Schools and four Faculties (Arts, Divinity, Science, and Medicine).
St Andrews' dedication to advancing knowledge is further reflected in its investment in world-class facilities, such as Eden Campus, the University’s centre of excellence for renewable technologies and innovation.
According to the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), the UK's national assessment of research quality, over 88% of St Andrews' research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
The University of St Andrews Global Fellowship Scheme is aimed at emerging and established scholars who are making a considerable impact on their respective field of study, and who have, or are developing, a distinguished research record.
The Fellowship scheme will support and enhance high-quality research collaborations with academics from around the world, and to promote areas of world-leading research, particularly in areas that engage with some of the biggest societal questions facing the world today.
The scheme seeks to:
Open to external applications.
Internal nominations only.
Email: globalfellows@st-andrews.ac.uk
Global Office University of St Andrews Room A11, Bute Building Westburn Lane St Andrews KY16 9TS
Email: globalfellows@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2151

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/showcase:
Our research breaks down borders.
Coming together from around the globe, researchers at St Andrews collaborate across disciplines to make new discoveries and tackle some of the world's biggest challenges.
The University renewed its Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018 for a further three years.
In addition to the institutional Bronze Award, the University holds 3 departmental Silver and 12 departmental Bronze awards.
The University of St Andrews is one of the top 50 universities in the world for research and teaching in the arts and humanities according to the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2020.
More than 88% of research carried out by the University of St Andrews is world-leading or internationally excellent, according to the results of the Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) published Thursday 12 May 2022.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/support:
Researchers at the University of St Andrews are offered guidance and advice from a number of resources to support them in their research.
Current staff can also find additional information on research-related areas supported by the University.
Research and Innovation Services facilitate a number of schemes to enable St Andrews researchers to deliver high-quality research, impact and innovation.
Current staff can view details of our current scheme calls : the St Andrews Interdisciplinary Research Support (STAIRS) and the St Andrews Leadership Initiative for Tailored Support (LIFTS).
Research and Innovation Services, under the direction of the Vice Principal for Research, Collections and Innovation, are responsible for formulating and implementing University policy, planning and coordinating developments.
The University provides support for researchers seeking external funding, in pre- and post-award management, and also operates a series of funding schemes accessible to researchers within the University.
The University Library provide a number of services to help researchers plan for, manage, and publish their research.
The Open Research team provides support on open access, research data management and the journal hosting service.
The University can provide help and resources to researchers who are looking to generate impact from their research.
The Technology Transfer Centre supports the University Strategy through the translation of knowledge and intellectual property.
It aims to enhance the impact of the University research portfolio through engagement with industry and non-industry partners.
CEED provides joined-up learning and teaching support to staff and students, combining educational development, pedagogical workshops, technology-enhanced learning and IT skills, and academic and study skills support.
OSDS delivers a wide range of professional development programmes for all University staff – academic, research and professional.
Research and Innovation Services provide support with demand managed funding calls, where the number of applications an institution can submit to a research call is limited.
Members of the PRC provide a supportive network across the University as reviewers serving on internal selection panels.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/environment/culture:
It is a strategic priority of the University of St Andrews to undertake world-leading research of the highest quality, and the University recognises that this is dependent on a wide range of institutional, group and individual factors that define the culture and environment in which researchers work.
Drawing on the University Strategy 2022-2027 , its  and action plans, our vision is to nurture an institutional research culture in which a range of values and behaviours are supported  and recognised, including collegiality, equality and integrity.
Our research community is broad.
It is made up of all those whose day-to-day working lives are shaped by research.
This includes academics, research support professionals, technicians and a wide range of other roles at all career stages.
It is an inclusive community, not an exclusive one, and as such integral to the University of St Andrews.
We create the research culture we participate in.
We own it through our behaviours, our words and our actions.
The responsibility is on us individually and collectively to ensure that our research culture is that which we aspire for it to be.
As an institution, our commitment is that where there are opportunities to recognise, support and improve research culture through action we will do so.
Through two surveys we have learnt what your experience and views are and responded to what matters to you by identifying seven key missions to take forward.
Where aspects of research culture are specific to the research experience of our community, we will drive them forward through dedicated research culture projects or actions.
We recognise though that research culture is part of our organisational culture and that we must seek to make progress holistically, this means that partnering with Schools and Units to support their strategies, policies and processes will in some cases offer us all the greatest advance.
One example of this is the focussed work underway in Diverse and the People Strategy.
We are in the process of developing an ambitious, forward-looking multi-year Research Culture Strategy and Action Plan.
We expect to be able to publish it in autumn 2025.
However, a lot of activity to advance and support a positive research culture has already been undertaken and more is planned during 2025.
We conducted our first Research Culture Survey in March 2021.
It considered themes and issues relating to the draft Research Culture Vision, developed by the University's Research Culture Group in 2020.
The survey was revisited in 2023 to ascertain progress.
Research culture report survey 2021 (Word)
Research Culture 2021-2023 Comparison Report (Word)
One of the University’s five Enabling Strategies is Diverse , with delivery pathways established through the People Strategy.
The vision for Diverse is:
“We will make St Andrews a beacon of inclusivity, placing diversity and equality at the centre of everything we do and creating an environment in which all can flourish and realise their potential.”
In the context of research culture, Diverse and the People Strategy enables us to consider researchers and research holistically.
We recognise that individuals’ roles are rarely tightly bounded, for instance researchers also teach our students and research support professionals may have elements of HR or finance in their role.
In building on the work being undertaken through the People Strategy, we ask a simple question ‘What are the implications of this for research and researchers?’ and it is through this we identify and derive our complementarity to jointly advance action.
We will ensure that this is clear through our Research Culture Missions.
Three critical objectives have been identified for research under Diverse which are collaboration, career pathways, and positive and ethical working practices.
These will be delivered through this joined up approach to action.
The universities of Glasgow, Edinburgh and St Andrews have been awarded £3m by the Wellcome Trust, to create a new framework for research leadership – InFrame – recognising that a skilled collegial approach to leadership is critical for the development of supportive and equitable cultures, and foundational to the aspirations set out in our research culture action plans.
Our collaboration aims to address the paucity of systematic knowledge on how collegiality can be fostered, recognised and rewarded.
It also aims to expand the definition of who can be viewed as a research leader to a wider set of role types, and individuals in the research ecosystem.
The InFrame project started in September 2024, led at St Andrews by Professor Tom Brown and Catherine Burns
To find out more go to the InFrame Project Website and get the latest live updates on the InFrame LinkedIn page .
As part of our wider commitments to ensuring an inclusive, supportive and just environment we are signatories to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , the Technician Commitment , the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA ), and the Concordat for Environmental Sustainability in Research Practice .
We demonstrate our ongoing commitment to advancing gender equality though our Athena Swan Award in which we were awarded Silver in March 2024.
REF 2029 People, Culture and Environment
The PCE section of the REF 2029 website is regularly updated.
Information associated with the PCE pilot can be found here including the template that pilot Units of Assessment were asked to complete, the guidance they were sent and information about the Panels that will be assessing the pilot.
The pilot is expected to report in late 2025, following which the final policy decisions for PCE will be made and guidance for the sector published.
Research culture in the UK has seen significant advancement in recent years, driven by various reports, papers and initiatives led by policymakers and funders.
Royal Society - Research Culture | Royal Society
UKRI - Research and innovation culture – UKRI
Wellcome Trust - Research culture | Wellcome
Department for Science, Innovation and Technology - R&D People and Culture Strategy
The National Centre for Research Culture – the University of Warwick hosts the national Centre, and has a range of national events, including and annual Conference aimed at those who are interested in research culture.
National Centre for Research Culture | Research at Warwick
Email: ris@st-andrews.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 7220
Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/environment/committees:
There are a number of research committees and forums which influence University policy and practice and ensure research standards are being met, with a view to improve the research experience at St Andrews.
The Research, Impact and Innovation Committee informs, influences and facilitates the University-wide oversight and coordination of the activities related to facilitating excellent research, impact and innovation and a thriving research environment.
The Research Excellence Board supports Schools to nurture and progress their research excellence on an ongoing basis.
The Institutional Research Equality and Diversity Review Group considers and makes recommendations on research decisions or processes that may have equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) implications for staff.
AWERB is responsible for promoting a culture of care.
Its remit includes promoting welfare, ensuring training and appropriate ethical review of all teaching and research activities involving animals, tissues and data.
UTREC is responsible for the ethical review and approval of all teaching and research activities involving human participants or human tissues and samples.
Each School has its own ethics committee which is overseen by the University Teaching and Research Ethics Committee (UTREC)
The Research Staff Forum explores key local, national and international issues relating to research and teaching staff.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/integrity-ethics/animals/policy:
The University is committed to maintaining a thorough and objective process of ethical review that requires researchers to justify any animal involvement and maximise animal welfare.
At the University of St Andrews, only a small amount of our research involves animals , and we apply the same standards regardless of whether our researchers are working with animals in an aquarium, a laboratory, or involved with conservation work in the field.
Animal research is strictly regulated by the Home Office under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 .
The University is subject to inspections by the Home Office who examine all aspects of animal research, care and welfare.
All regulated work is carried out under licences , which are only issued if the potential benefits of the work are likely to outweigh the effects on the animals concerned.
The University expects all those involved in scientific research involving animals to take personal responsibility for knowing their statutory responsibility under the Animal (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986.
They must also receive appropriate and on-going training.
The Animal Welfare Ethics Review Body (AWERB) offers on-going support and guidance to researchers on best practice for animal involvement, welfare and refinement.
The University is fully committed to applying the principles of the NC3Rs initiative , which is used to improve the design and reporting of animal studies.
The principles of the 3Rs should be applied - these are:
Research only occurs with animals when necessary and when there is no alternative.
We are continually seeking alternative methods and techniques that will enable researchers to further their research without involving animals, for example by developing in-vitro techniques (e.g.
tissue culture) and computer modelling.
However, the complexity of both humans and animals cannot always be fully replicated by alternative systems, and therefore the involvement of animals cannot completely be eliminated.
Where alternatives cannot be found, only the smallest possible number of animals are involved, and our scientists and care staff work hard to ensure that these animals have the highest standards of care and that the principles of the 3Rs are applied.
In addition, the University has a designated veterinary surgeon that provides care and advice on the animals and their involvement.
The University of St Andrews fully supports and endorses the ARRIVE (Animal Research: Reporting of In Vivo Experiments) guidelines .
These guidelines are intended to improve the design, analysis and standards of reporting research using animals by maximising the information published and minimising unnecessary studies.
Home Office liaison contact Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2527 Email: holo@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/support/technology-transfer:
The Technology Transfer Centre (TTC) supports the University Strategy through the translation of knowledge and intellectual property (IP).
It aims to enhance the impact of our research portfolio through engagement with industry and non-industry partners.
The TTC consists of a Head of Technology Transfer, Head of Commercialisation, Innovation & Commercialisation Manager, IP Manager and an IP Assistant.
The TTC also has consultancy support for strategic projects.
Find out more about the TTC staff .
The TTC's core objectives are:
The TTC will:
TTC staff will provide advice on a range of IP matters including copyright, design rights, patents and trademarks.
For more information on IP management at the University please email ustanip@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Translational funding is an important tool in bridging the gap between early stage technology and commercialisation.
Various funding sources exist and the TTC will support applications for development and translation funding, working closely with the research support functions of the Finance Department (Research Business Development and Contracts and Finance Advice and Support teams).
The University has a broad portfolio of technologies and innovative intellectual property (IP) available for licence which span numerous academic disciplines.
A selection of available technologies are listed on our dedicated portal or please contact the team to discuss your specific needs and requirements.
The TTC will assist university staff in the commercialisation of the research outputs which will include:
For more information on commercialisation, please email TTC Administration at ttcconnect@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The TTC manages post-agreement compliance for all deals relating to IP.
These include assignations, options, inter-institutional agreements and licences.
Management activities include:
For more information on commercialisation, please email TTC Administration at ttcconnect@st-andrews.ac.uk .
A selection of live licensing opportunities can be found on our portal
If you are interested in company formation, please contact Keith Millican at km76@st-andrews.ac.uk in the Enterprise team for further information.
Technology Transfer Centre Walter Bower House Eden Campus Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2163 Email: ttcconnect@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/study-options/pg/research-degrees:
Develop your knowledge of accounting and finance theory, advanced analytical techniques and professional practice.
Provides an intellectual and practical overview of modern animal behaviour taught by leading researchers, utilising the latest techniques and research skills to explore key topics such as cognition, behavioural ecology, and biologging.
Taking perception and sensory experience as its starting point, it draws on the theories and methods that extend across the disciplinary boundaries between audio-visual art and anthropology.
This course provides a training framework for postgraduate research in the anthropology of human creativity, art, material culture, and visual expression.
This commercially relevant programme of study provides students with the statistical data analysis skills needed for business, commerce, and other applications.
Offers a diverse range of subject areas, from medieval and Renaissance art to Impressionism, Islamic Art, African modernism, to eco-art and contemporary performance art.
This course explores the major themes and concepts that connect different periods of art history.
An advanced research-led course in the study of artificial intelligence (AI) that will develop students' skills in logic, constraint programming, language processing, machine learning and neural networks.
This course allows students to gain experience in the core areas of astrophysics and develop the necessary research skills to carry out astrophysical research.
In this course, accredited by the Chartered Banker Institute, students will gain the skills and knowledge needed for specialist roles in banking and the wider financial services sector alongside exposure to contemporary global issues and research in banking and finance.
A part-time online learning programme that connects biblical and theological studies with other disciplines in the arts, humanities and social sciences.
Students with a knowledge of Biblical languages will increase their linguistic and exegetical skills through sustained close and critical engagement with biblical texts and themes on this course.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/hr/edi:
You are here: University » Human Resources » Equality and Diversity Inclusion
Welcome to the suite of web pages on the EDI services provided .‎‌‎
All employees, students, and members of the public can use the online Report and Support tool to report complaints or concerns to the University and access support information.
‘As a truly international and world-class university, our ambition is to be a beacon of inclusivity.
We will achieve this through an approach that empowers our whole community – through a combination of deliberate steps sponsored by the University’s leadership and a determined shift in culture that makes sure everyone is embraced, from students, academic and professional staff, to our alumni.
Inclusivity will inform and affect policy and practice across the piece.
We do this because it is right but also because diverse organisations work smarter, encourage innovation, and maximise the creativity that is fundamental to academic excellence.’
Equality Outcomes, Action Plans and Reports
Pay gap reports
Diverse Action Plan

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/professional-services/research:
The University of St Andrews is a research-intensive university.
Research and Innovation Services (RIS) supports research, innovation and impact activities across the institution, working closely with the Vice-Principal (Research, Collections and Innovation) , researchers, and other Professional services units .
The specific areas that RIS supports include:
RIS is managed by Catherine Burns, Executive Director of Research Support, who assists the Vice-Principal for Research, Collections and Innovation, Professor Tom Brown.
Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Other contacts:
St Andrews Innovation connects industry with students and staff.
The team supports research collaborations, commercial licensing and University spin-outs and start-ups, creating a thriving entrepreneurial ecosystem.
Researchers at the University of St Andrews are offered guidance and advice from a number of resources to support them in their research.
Current staff can find additional information on research-related areas supported by the University .
Research and Innovation Services facilitate a number of schemes to enable St Andrews researchers to deliver high-quality research, impact and innovation.
Current staff can view details of our current scheme calls , including St Andrews Interdisciplinary Research Support (STAIRS) and St Andrews Leadership Initiative for Tailored Support (LIFTS).
The research integrity, ethics and governance team supports researchers to:
Research integrity, ethics and governance Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2550
Research information and policy comprises two sub-teams:
Both teams work closely with the other RIS teams and central services, such as Human Resources, Finance and Business Development.
The research information and policy team is the central contact for general research queries.
They also provide services such as:
The team provides support to the Vice-Principal (Research, Collections and Innovation) and the Research Excellence Board.
The pure team provides support and training to research staff and postgraduate research students on:
Find our more on the Pure webpages or email purelive@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Research information and policy Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Email: ris@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 7220
Government and funding organisations generally expect researchers to be aware of the potential difference their research could make to society, and to be able to articulate how impacts could be generated, to consider ways of accelerating such change, and to take account of benefits resulting from their research.
The Research Impact Team supports researchers by providing advice and training on impact, idea generation, planning, execution, evidencing and reporting, such as the REF 2021.
The Research Impact Team also supports the GC Forum , which oversees, guides and supports capacity building, sustaining capacity and development-related research activity through competitively funded projects intended to make a real difference to the lives of people in ODA countries .
The Research Impact Team manages the:
These funding streams support activities that strengthen relationships with strategic external partners and maximise the potential for research impact in any sector with non-academic users of research.
Research Impact Team Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US Email: impact@st-andrews.ac.uk
Useful webpages:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/ceed:
You are here: University » CEED
CEED delivers the Saints Skills Awards with the Careers Centre, and GRADskills and MSkills programmes for PGR and PGT students through St Leonard’s Postgraduate College.
CEED’s remit supports the University strategy and our initiatives feed into the People and Digital enabling strategies.
CEED’s work has particular alignment to the Education supporting strategy which sets out our aim of providing world-leading teaching and learning.
Our work also supports the development of graduate attributes .
The International Education Institute has merged with CEED to form a new institute - the International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute (IELLI) .
Our pages will gradually move over to the new website over the next few months - make sure to update your bookmarks.
CEED has a number of activities students can undertake throughout the year, including online skill development, recommended reading and much more.
For full details see our activity webpage .
Mentoring
Academic Skills Project (ASP)
Study skills
Online resources for study
‌ Academic and education-focused staff
Research postgraduates who teach
‌ Services
Get involved
Kinnessburn Kennedy Gardens St Andrews KY16 9DJ
Opening hours for students: Mon-Fri 09:00-16:00 (term time)
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2141 Email: ceed@st-andrews.ac.uk
Education blog

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/high-performance-computing:
Learn how the University's HPC can enhance your research
The University of St Andrews hosts Hypatia, a high-performance computing cluster named after the 4th-century Alexandrian scholar often regarded as the first recorded female mathematician.
It provides state-of-the-art hardware, diverse software, and personalised support if required.
Get started
Simulating NMR spectra of disordered materials Prof Sharon Ashbrook
Gerardo Ramon-Fox, Duncan Forgan and Ian Bonnell
Tom Howson, Lyanne Fyfe and Ineke de Moortel

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/environment/ref-2029:
It was first carried out in 2014, replacing the Research Assessment Exercise (RAE).
The REF outcomes are used to calculate funding for universities' research.
Results are also used to inform strategic decisions about national research priorities.
Results from the REF are important for:
In June 2023, the four UK higher education funding bodies (Research England, SFC, HEFCW and DfE NI) published key decisions on the high-level design of the next research assessment exercise and issues for further consultation.
Informed by this consultation, further decisions were published in December 2023, with the key decision that there is an extension to the timing for the next REF exercise.
The exercise has been renamed REF 2029 (as opposed to the original REF 2028) with results published in December 2029.
Further details on these decisions can be found on the REF 2029 website .
If you have any queries regarding the REF 2029 process at the University of St Andrews, please contact ris@st-andrews.ac.uk .
You can find details on the University of St Andrews results from previous REF and RAE awards on the research excellence pages .
Research impact Email: impact@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/support/library:
University Collections holds over a million artifacts, manuscripts, rare books, and photographs.
The Academic Liaison Librarians are keen to work with staff to support their research needs and to provide guidance in the use of specialist information resources.
University Collections holds printed books, manuscripts, photographs and the University archive.
Built-up since the University’s foundation in the 15th century, these collections offer rich opportunities for teaching and research.
The University Library provides a wealth of resources in addition to practical support for researchers.
Find out more by visiting the Library website.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/research/contact:
University of St Andrews Walter Bower House Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 7220 Email: ris@st-andrews.ac.uk
Looking to contact a particular researcher, or looking to find a collaborator?
See the research portal .
For information about research services.
Open Access Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 8851 Email: openaccess@st-andrews.ac.uk
Research data management Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2343 Email: research-data@st-andrews.ac.uk
Research computing Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4727 Email: res-comp@st-andrews.ac.uk
For support and advice in all aspects of research awards and contracts.
Research funding support Phone : +44 (0)1334 46 2006
Business development : busdev@st-andrews.ac.uk Contracts: contracts@st-andrews.ac.uk
For anyone interested in finding out more about our policies and procedures regarding integrity and ethics.
Research integrity Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2550 Email: researchintegrity@st-andrews.ac.uk
Research involving humans Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2368 Email: utrec@st-andrews.ac.uk
Research involving animals Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2527 Email: holo@st-andrews.ac.uk
Research governance, sponsorship of NHS research, due diligence on overseas research partners, export controls and Nagoya Protocol Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2550 Email: researchgovernance@st-andrews.ac.uk
The Press Office handles all media enquiries and can provide media assistance including permissions to interview a member of staff.
Press Office Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2530 Email : proffice@st-andrews.ac.uk
To get help or advice in planning, developing or evaluating engagement with research activities.
Head of Engagement with Research Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4325 Email : hor-engagement@st-andrews.ac.uk
For support and guidance for research systems such as Pure, Researchfish and ORCID.
Pure team Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2321 Email: purelive@st-andrews.ac.uk
For anyone interested in finding out more about research impact at the University.
Impact team Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4141 Email: impact@st-andrews.ac.uk
Global Challenges Forum (GC Forum) Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4141 Email: ris_gcrf@st-andrews.ac.uk
For information about demand managed and internal funding calls, research leave and general research policy enquiries
Research information and policy team Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 7220 Email: ris@st-andrews.ac.uk
For external businesses interested in working with or sponsoring research and development, or for research staff interested in commercialising their research.
Technology Transfer Centre Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2163 Email : ttcconnect @st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/making-waves:
Great universities never stand still.
They must take the lead as society’s engines of innovation and change, and St Andrews needs to be at the forefront of this.
Making Waves: The Campaign for St Andrews aims to raise £300 million to achieve this ambition through the key projects below.
With your support, we can make waves and shape the future not only of our University, but of our world.
Our ambitious "Making Waves" campaign is fundamentally about the restless power of ideas, the people who have them and the environment in which we shape and challenge the brightest minds.
Our New College project, the centrepiece of the campaign and the first new college at this university for nearly 300 years, will bring together our internationally renowned School of International Relations and our new Business School, fostering world-class research and educating future global leaders.
Our focus on endowed chairs, scholarships and bursaries underlines our commitment to the University's fundamental strategic goal to attract and nurture the brightest minds from around the world and to provide them with an environment in which they can thrive and produce their best work for maximum societal benefit.
The development of a cutting-edge digital nexus building for the School of Computer Science will form the first phase in our masterplan for our Science and Medicine campus.
This will enable us to generate an intellectual powerhouse of staff and student researchers from across the sciences and medicine, with the resources they need to develop groundbreaking research.
With your support, we can make waves and shape the future not only of our university but of our world.
I would be delighted if you would join us on this quest.
St Andrews by the Northern Sea.
A haunted town it is to me.
A little city, worn and grey,
the grey North Ocean girds it round and o'er the rocks and up the bay,
the long sea-rollers surge and sound.
O winter of the kindly North,
O college of the scarlet gown,
and shining sands beside the sea
and stretch of links beyond the sand,
once more I watch you and to me it is as if I touched his hand.
The drifting surge,
the wintry year,
the college of the scarlet gown,
St Andrews by the Northern Sea,
where youth and hour came back to me.
Where youth and hour came back to me.
Find out how you can be part of the University of St Andrews Making Waves campaign.
Thank you for being part of our history and our future.
Discover the key projects in our Making Waves campaign.
Support Making Waves: The Campaign for St Andrews a nd help enhance our status as a world-leading, diverse, digital, sustainable and entrepreneurial centre of learning, teaching and research.
All donations to the University of St Andrews support the Making Waves Campaign .
Great things are achieved at St Andrews thanks to the power of collective giving .
Find out about our current appeals and join our Community of Giving with a single or regular gift.
If you have any questions or would like more information about Making Waves: The Campaign for St Andrews , please contact us at makingwaves@st-andrews.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/collective-giving:
Every year we ask our global St Andrews community to help us, and every year so many of you come together and give what you can, the sum of which enables remarkable things to happen.
All donations to our current appeals support Making Waves: The Campaign for St Andrews .
As we head into an exciting new chapter for St Andrews with the Making Waves Campaign , we invite you to join – or to strengthen your connection with – our community of giving by making a gift to one of the current projects shown below.
Thank you so much for everything that you do for St Andrews students.
Steadily increasing numbers of available undergraduate scholarships, vital support for students with cost-of-living initiatives and financial hardship, and contributions to ambitious developments such as the Laidlaw Music Centre are just some of the areas that are made possible by the collective impact of smaller scale gifts.
We seek help every year for our scholarships programme as well as support for students once they are here in St Andrews, and for priority projects being developed at the University.
The above projects are open for giving through a single, one-off gift or through setting up a regular donation to the University.
Regular gifts are a fantastic way to pledge your committed support to a passion project, and they also allow the University to plan even more effectively, especially in areas such as scholarships.
To find out more about collective giving at the University of St Andrews, please contact Magda Croy at collectivegiving@st-andrews.ac.uk .
If you would like to discuss making a major gift to the University of St Andrews, please contact Pranav Murali at pm284@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Find further information about our key projects within the Making Waves Campaign .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/legacies:
We know how important it is to ensure that family and friends are provided for, but please consider leaving the University a share of what is left.
Every gift – large or small – helps us to transform lives, and a legacy of even a small percentage of your estate can make all the difference.
Pledging a legacy will cost you nothing today but will be of tremendous value to the University in years to come.
We established The Chancellor’s Circle in 2011 to recognise and thank those generous alumni and friends who have chosen to remember the University of St Andrews in their will during their lifetime.
All members receive regular donor communications and invitations to events throughout the year.
Legacies have been part of the University of St Andrews' story for over six centuries.
They have supported transformational projects and enabled countless students to pursue study and research, and to write their own stories.
Our legacy pledgors and donors, too, have their own tales tell and experiences to share, each of which is unique and inspiring.
Gail Inglis (née McColm, MA 1968) studied Modern and Medieval History at St Andrews and met her husband, Peter, here.
She has remembered the University in her will on behalf of them both and shares her story in the video below.
To find out more about leaving a legacy to the University of St Andrews, view our brochure below or contact:
Katrina Bell (Legacies Manager) Email: keb32@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 462105 Mobile: +44 (0)7565200707
Ailsa Gallie (Development Assistant) Email: ab275@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 461915
A legacy bequest is one of the most personal gifts you can make to St Andrews.
Download our PDF brochure for more information.
Legacy Bequest Booklet UK (PDF)
Legacy Bequest Booklet US (PDF)
If you choose to let us know that you are planning to leave a legacy, we will invite you to join the Chancellor’s Circle to thank you for your generosity and for supporting the University.
Read why people have chosen to leave a legacy to St Andrews.
Frequently asked questions about leaving a legacy.
Plant a tree or dedicate a memorial bench or oak planter at the University of St Andrews.
Find out more about leaving a legacy for US donors.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/support/ways-to-donate/single-and-regular-donations:
There are a number of ways that you can donate, wherever you are in the world.
Click on the relevant link below for country-specific information on making a donation.
Susan Donald Development Officer (Operations)
Email: donate@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1334 461906
Gift Acceptance Policy (PDF)
Email: donate@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1906

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/thanks-to-you:
During the past decade the University of St Andrews has almost doubled its endowment and is building a legacy from which current and future students, staff and members of the local community will benefit.
Here is a summary of what your gifts and pledges have helped us to achieve:
Enjoy a virtual look inside the wonderful new Laidlaw Music Centre.
The Younger Hall has been transformed thanks to your support.
Thank you for supporting our students to reach their full potential.
The story of the University’s state-of-the-art marine science hub.
Collaboration across arts, humanities, social and natural sciences.
Thank you for supporting the projects and funds that need it most.
A celebration of how the University reached its £100 million campaign target, and what this has achieved.
We asked for your help and your response was completely overwhelming.
Read the latest Financial Summaries.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/st-andrews-in-the-news:
St Andrews in the News is our monthly e-newsletter for alumni, friends and supporters around the world.
View previous editions below.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/alumni/social-media:
Regular news, updates, photos and videos are shared via our social media channels.
Follow or connect with us to keep in touch.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/family-programme:
The University of St Andrews is universally known as one of the top ranking UK universities, but what most people aren't aware of is the vital role that the parents and families of our current students have to play in supporting this closely knit community.
Development runs a very popular Family Programme for the parents and guardians of current undergraduate students.
This enables our families to be part of the St Andrews community, keeps them up to date with developments at the University and provides ways they can contribute to and share in its achievements.
If you are already a Family Programme member and wish to register a new child, please contact Alumni Relations at alumni@st-andrews.ac.uk giving your details and the details of your new child.
Your new child will be added to your current membership.
The Family Programme is free of charge.
By registering, you will automatically receive:
In addition, Family Programme members also have the opportunity to:
Please contact Alumni Relations at alumni@st-andrews.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/develop-2/donor-roll:
Latest edition
Archive
Email: develop@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1334 462113
© University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No SC013532.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/about:
Development at the University of St Andrews exists to develop and strengthen the University's position at the forefront of teaching, learning and research by inspiring active participation, investment and loyalty to St Andrews.
Development is responsible for the University's philanthropic fundraising and relations with our 76,000 alumni, friends and benefactors worldwide.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/contact:
Enquiries can be directed to the relevant areas.
Email: developmentevents@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3052
Email: families@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 7194
Email: pm284@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2083
Email: collectivegiving@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1908
Email: legacies@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1915
Email: Katie Birrell ( kjb21@st-andrews.ac.uk )
Email: stewardship@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4352
Email: develop@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1906
For specific enquiries please contact the relevant team/staff member below.
Robert Fleming Email: director.development@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1909
Mairi Scott (PA) Email: mairi.scott@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1909 Mobile: +44 (0)7511 047458
Laura Gordon Email: lag2@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2002
Alex Hayes Email: afh6@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1918
Tania Hutt Email: tls8@st-andrews.ac.uk
Kathryn Humphreys Email: kgh4@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +1 215-718-5503
Pamela Stephenson Email: pls1@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)7521 26 6537
Heather Edie Email: hje1@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2111
Craig Rutherford Email: cr265@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 4045
Lynsey Radke Email: lk20@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)7590 073357
Katrina Bell Email: legacies@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1915
Lily Nguyen Email: lxn1@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +1 323-561-1930
Moira Sharkey Email: ms419@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +1 508-287-0871
Leah Dalton Email: ld207@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +1 410-662-2525
Audrey Dyce Email: developmentevents@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1905
Louise Taylor Email: lft@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2102
Development University of St Andrews Crawford Building 91 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AJ UK
Development University of St Andrews Crawford Building 91 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AJ
Alumni Relations Email: alumni@st-andrews.ac.uk
Fundraising Email: pm284@st-andrews.ac.uk
Help with making your donation Email: donate@st-andrews.ac.uk
Family Programme Email: families@st-andrews.ac.uk
Legacy and Memorial Giving Email: legacies@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/your-data-and-privacy:
Alumni,  friends  and supporters  play  an  important  role  in the  life  of  the  University of  St  Andrews contributing to our achievements and ensuring we continue to be known across the globe as a world leader in education.
The Development Office at St Andrews is here to support our alumni, friends and supporters, keeping you informed as to what is happening at the University and beyond: engaging with you on relevant activities which we hope will be of interest to you.
This includes sharing University, alumni and supporter news and activities, events, reunions, fundraising campaigns, networking, career and volunteering opportunities.
The Development Office cannot reach out to you, without making use of your personal data, which, more often than not, will involve your contact details.
The protection of personal information collected and processed by the University is legislated through the European and UK legislation, notably through the General Data Protection Regulations (more commonly known as the GDPR), the Data Protection Act 2018 (“the DPA”) and through rules on direct marketing activities as provided by Privacy and Electronic Communication Regulations 2003 (“the PECR”).
One of the core principles of data protection legislation is that personal data is processed fairly.
Fairly, in this context, is concerned with individuals being informed as to how their personal information will be used.
It is important that the University is clear about how personal data will be used to support development and alumni related activities, so that you can let us know if you wish for the University to act differently.
The purpose of this statement is therefore to inform alumni and friends how their personal information will be used by the University, and to set out our promise to you that –
The University will work at all times to protect your privacy.
We will only make use of your personal data for clearly stated purposes and we will always respect and uphold your rights .
Please read the full privacy policy: Your Data and Privacy Notice (PDF)
Updated 21 October 2024
Your Data and Privacy Notice (PDF)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/in-st-andrews:
The University is delighted to welcome prospective students to St Andrews.
Students thinking of applying to us can attend a visiting day , where you can meet Admissions staff, academic colleagues and current students.
If you cannot attend a visiting day, we offer a regular talk and tour programme that allows you to take a student-led tour of the town and meet Admissions staff.
You can explore the town and University whenever is most suitable for you using our self-guided tour .
Visitors to St Andrews may also be interested in the facilities open to the local community and general public, which can be found in living in St Andrews .
Prospective postgraduate students can arrange a time to meet with Admissions staff or book a talk and tour .
For more information about travel, please visit our getting to St Andrews page.
International visitors: Please ensure you have obtained the required visa or Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) for entry to the UK, as applicable to you.
Guidance is available at https://www.gov.uk/check-uk-visa .
Explore the town and University on your own and find out more about the buildings and landmarks of St Andrews.
Students who are thinking of applying to the University for undergraduate or foundation programmes can come to an undergraduate visiting day to learn more about life at St Andrews and how to apply.
Students who are thinking of applying to the University for postgraduate study can come to a postgraduate visiting day to learn more about life at St Andrews and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/online:
If you are considering applying to St Andrews, we offer tailored information events where you can find out about different levels of study and specific courses we run.
These events are all run online, and you can register your details with us to sign up and receive reminders about your chosen event.
Information events for anyone considering applying for an undergraduate course at St Andrews.
Information events for anyone considering applying for a postgraduate course at St Andrews.
Tailored sessions for college counsellors or anyone helping a student apply to the University of St Andrews.
Tailored sessions for parents or anyone helping a student apply to the University of St Andrews.
Tailored sessions for agents or anyone helping a student apply to the University of St Andrews.
Discover our courses

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/your-country:
You can meet a member of the Admissions team, or a University representative, no matter where you live.
Meeting with University staff is a great way to find out more about student life and the application process, and to ask any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/ask-a-student:
Simply fill in the enquiry form below, and one of our students will get back to you.
To meet one of our students, book to attend a virtual Q&A, or visit us on a talk and tour .
Book a virtual session
We have ambassadors from all over the world studying a range of subjects, so we can easily match you with someone who can help answer your questions.
Meet our postgraduate ambassadors from both Masters and PhD programmes.
Complete this short form to send your query to our student ambassadors.
The information collected in this form will be held and used only in the ways outlined in the University's data collection statement .
"Since coming to university from college I've had the time of my life whether that be doing the pier walk, going to Christmas ball or most importantly studying the subject I'm passionate about.
Philosophy!"
"My favourite tradition by far is academic families.
You become part of this ‘family’ and they are there for you for everything you need.
My academic sisters and I are now flatmates and they are my best friends here.
I would not have met them if it wasn’t for this wonderful tradition."
"St Andrews has a really warm and welcoming community, which as a first year makes it super easy to integrate and get used to a university environment.
I met most of my friends in my hall of residence either at hall events or simply bumping into them.
I've also met some friends at lectures and in random lines and situations like that."
"One thing I wish I had known before coming to St Andrews is that I wouldn't feel out of place at all!
I was naturally really worried before joining in first year, but everybody is in the same boat and living in a small university town brings so many opportunities to meet people from every walk of life.
There are so many clubs and societies to join which will help you to make friends with similar interests.
It becomes home much quicker than you could imagine!"
"I love going for a wee dip in the North Sea at dawn.
From May Dip to Raisin Sunday and anytime in-between, going for a dip while being bathed in the brilliant sunrises in St Andrews is an equally relaxing and invigorating way to prepare yourself for the day ahead."
"I wish I had known how easy it is to make friends and develop a sense of community.
High School always felt a bit cliquey to me, but St Andrews is much less like that than I expected.
Everyone ends up knowing everyone, and it matters less what you study or how you spend your time when making friends than your willingness to chat a bit.
I wish I hadn't been as nervous about developing a vibrant social life."
"My top tip is to set up a time to call friends/family from back home.
Maybe once a month or so.
It really helps to have a set time to reconnect or ground yourself."
"I wish I had known that there is so much flexibility in the courses available to me.
When I got here I was amazed by how many different pathways there are; if I’d done a bit more research it would have sped up my process of choosing modules in first year."
"I've met most of my friends either through society meetings or just via classes that we share.
I take part in a variety of societies, some include Physoc, Astrosoc, the Engineering and Aerospace Society (EASy)."

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/graduation:
Congratulations recent graduates and a warm welcome to any guests joining us in St Andrews as part of the graduation celebrations.
Whether you have been with us for 4 years or 1 day, we hope you can see why so many people fall in love with the town, the University, and choose to call St Andrews home.
With that in mind, as the formal graduation proceedings come to an end, have you considered masters study at St Andrews?
The University of St Andrews offers a broad range of postgraduate study opportunities with more than 1,000 postgraduates currently studying in one of our four Faculties of Arts, Divinity, Medicine and Science.
Postgraduate study includes a range of qualification options including postgraduate certificates, Masters degrees and PhD programmes.
Explore online study
Explore in-person and online opportunities with St Andrews through our virtual events.
Request a prospectus or email the Admissions team to find out more.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/online/pg-online:
Students interested in postgraduate study at the University can engage with us in a number of ways, from all around the world.
You can book an online event with the form on this page, book a one-to-one meeting with Admissions, or explore our visiting days and visiting week .
We look forward to meeting you and to assisting you in your journey to St Andrews.
Explore our subjects Flexible online courses
Email: admissions.events@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/meet-us/college-counsellors:
Our Admissions team can provide college counsellors and advisers with extensive details about the admissions process.
This way, you can keep prospective students as informed as possible when they come to apply.
Admissions are always available to answer any questions you may have about the University of St Andrews.
There are two opportunities for you to come and visit the University.
Find out why we are one of the most sought after destinations for students from the UK, Europe and overseas.
Every year in February or March, there is a two-day college counsellors visit.
This allows you to experience the University in person and meet the Admissions team.
College counsellors can come and visit the University on an individual basis.
The Admissions team can organise an itinerary based on your availability and preferences.
We run online sessions specifically for college counsellors throughout the year.
Sessions will appear here when available for booking.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/professional-services:
The students and Academic Schools of St Andrews are supported by the University's professional service units.
If you are looking to find out who is responsible for a specific task within the University, search below.
Search all teams within units and departments
University staff are also able to contact all heads of units who hold a specified role within professional service units.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance:
The University is governed by a number of key officials and three main bodies: University Court, the Academic Senate, and the General Council.
Find out more about these groups and the other units and departments in the University below.
The University is managed by a team of officials with the Principal at the head.
Professor Dame Sally Mapstone FRSE is the Principal and Vice-Chancellor and is responsible for the overall running of the institution as well as its strategic direction.
The University has four faculties, each managed by a Dean and supported by Pro Deans.
The University Court is the governing body of the University.
The University Senate, or Senatus Academicus, is the supreme academic body of the University.
The General Council of the University of St Andrews is the body of all graduates and senior academics of the University.
Find out about the University's academic Schools and related departments.
Professional services units are non-academic departments that perform vital tasks across the University.
The Students' Association is the centre of activity for students in St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/facts:
The University of St Andrews is known for its rich history as well as its cutting-edge teaching and research.
From our motto and shield to recent graduate outcomes and student satisfaction, this page contains important facts and figures about Scotland's first university.
Founded in the early 15th century, St Andrews is Scotland’s first university and the third oldest in the English-speaking world.
Teaching began in the community of St Andrews in 1410, and the University was formally constituted by the issue of a papal bull in 1413.
The University’s motto is ‘Ever to Excel’, which is taken from a speech in Homer’s epic Greek poem, Iliad .
The different elements of the University shield represent the insignia of the founders of the University.
The crescent moon represents Peter de Luna, the given name of Pope Benedict XIII, who issued the bulls of foundation of the University in 1413.
The lion rampant is taken from the royal arms of Scotland and represents the royal authority of King James I (1406 to 1437) who was associated with the foundation.
The gold diamonds ( mascles or ) are taken from the personal arms of Henry Wardlaw, Bishop of St Andrews from 1404 to 1440, who issued the original charter which incorporated the Studium Generale in 1411 or 1412.
The open book with the red page edges represents learning.
The blue and silver cross represents the saltire of Scotland.
For the academic year 2023-2024, we had 10,234 students:
We are the most international of Scotland's universities and one of the most international in the UK.
There are more than 135 countries represented in the 2023-2024 student population.
For 2023 entry we received applications from 182 different countries.
Our students have the chance to participate in exciting exchanges or study abroad opportunities in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada and the USA.
St Andrews employees are also international – 25% of our staff are from outside the UK, including Europe, the USA, India, China, Canada, and the Republic of Ireland.
The University of St Andrews is home to many unique traditions.
Academic families are a spontaneous tradition where third and fourth year students can adopt first year students as their ‘children’ to act as mentors and introduce them to student life.
Narrator: St Andrews students have a number of strange and wonderful traditions, including the academic family system.
Where older students adopt first years.
Nick, academic father: So, I would describe the academic family as an informal mentorship where third years adopt first years.
Hannah, academic child of Nick: The academic family has certainly enriched my social life, especially in first year just getting started.
It was good to meet people and they always had a friendly face no matter where you went because this town is so small.
Narrator: The first few weeks of semester are often filled with academic families being created.
Whether you meet them through your academics, hobbies or social life, you never quite know how your academic family tree will grow.
Hannah: An academic family is different from a society or sports club because it's a very personal experience.
It's a no commitment kind of thing unless you want it to be.
You make it what you want.
Naomi, academic child: I think it’s made it easier in first year to have the academic families and parents because you get to meet a lot of people that you wouldn’t ordinarily meet and it kind of bridges the gap between the older and younger years.
Narrator: The mentoring aspect of the academic families culminates in Raisin Weekend when children are entertained by their parents and are encouraged to play pranks and silly games.
Hannah: On Raisin Sunday, most people spend the morning with their ‘mothers’.
Lewis, academic child, brother to Naomi: We got a call at, I think it was 6.30am.
Got told to go down to the beach.
Naomi: We found them assembled fully dressed in costume and then we went swimming in the sea to clean off.
That was nice and refreshing.
Hannah: Before Raisin, I was so nervous.
There is so much hype around the weekend, especially as a first year.
If you haven’t been in St Andrews before for Raisin, you don’t know what to expect.
Nick: Coming up to Raisin Weekend, I think I was pretty nervous about not actually being able to make the weekend fun enough for my kids because, for me, certainly when I was a kid, it was such a great experience and I remember a lot of it just feeling amazed that this happens each year and it’s a tradition.
Narrator: Many parents spend the weeks before Raisin Weekend designing games for Raisin Sunday and costumes that children wear on Raisin Monday.
Yasmine, academic parent to Lewis and Naomi: For Raisin Monday we made costumes based on our favourite TV show.
As a group we all constructed them together and spent quite a bit of time just staying up and having them as a kind of parent bonding and then we distributed them to our kids on Raisin Monday.
Narrator: The world-famous pinnacle of Raisin Weekend is Raisin Monday shaving foam fight.
Hannah: All the first years gather in the quad and your academic mother gives you a costume and you go in and you have these cans of shaving cream and you just lob it at each other.
Lewis: For the foam fight we all went down as a family, so our mum, who was the queen, we carried her on the throne.
Naomi: We marched through the streets of St Andrews with banners raised and flags flying so I think we made quite a scene.
Hannah: It was a really fun experience.
It was over before I really knew it began.
I guess I was just having so much fun.
You’ll never get anything like that again.
Narrator: Academic families are a tradition which extends past the three main streets of St Andrews.
Nick: I’ve had some interesting cases when, down in London, I bumped into my academic great-great uncle at an event and, purely through chance, we worked out that we were related.
Sara, alumna, graduated 2012: When I look back on my time in St Andrews, I definitely include academic families, mainly because I still am in contact with them.
One of my ‘daughters’ just had a baby, which is really crazy, so I’m kind of a grandmother.
Lewis: Your academic siblings, you don't know them before you meet with them as a family.
So it’s really nice to meet them and then, from that, you get introduced to so many new people.
It really opens a lot of doors.
It’s a really good idea.
Hannah: To me the academic family has served as a real support system and a network of people I can always call on.
I will definitely become an academic parent myself because I want to provide the same kind of support system that my parents gave to me.
It’s another close friendship I look forward to having.
Every year, hundreds of first-year students, dressed in fancy dress by their academic parents, gather in St Salvator’s Quad for the annual Raisin Monday foam fight.
Foam fight!
Every year hundreds of students gather to take part in the Raisin Monday foam fight.
The PH initials set into cobblestones outside Sallies Quad mark the spot where Patrick Hamilton was burnt at the stake in 1528.
According to tradition, any student who steps on the PH will be cursed to fail their degree.
The PH initials spelled out in the cobblestones outside St Salvator’s Quad mark the sport where Martyr Patrick Hamilton was burnt at the stake in 1528.
Beware!
According to tradition, any student stepping on the PH will be cursed to fail their exams.
Happily, the curse can be overturned by participating in the annual May Dip.
At sunrise on the first of May, students make their way to the East Sands where they run into the sea to cleanse themselves of academic sins ahead of their exams and to lift the curse.
The only cure for Patrick Hamilton’s curse is to participate in the annual May Dip.
At sunrise on May Day, students make their way down to East Sands and collectively run into the North Sea.
At sunrise on the first of May, thousands of students make their way down to the East Sands and run into the North Sea.
This annual St Andrews tradition is intended to bring good luck in your exams and cleanse you of any academic sins.
Those not keen to run into the chilly North Sea are still welcome to come along and support their fellow students.
Cafés open early on the day to provide warming drinks to the brave.
There are more than 150 student societies ranging from artistic and musical to religious and cultural.
Sport is a valued aspect of St Andrews life – there are more than 50 sports clubs and 100 competitive sports teams to choose from.
Music is particularly strong at St Andrews, with an estimated one in seven students actively participating in musical activities and many more engaging as audience members.
Students at the University of St Andrews are more positive about their education than students at any other mainstream university in the UK, according to the results of the National Student Survey 2023 .
According to the Complete University Guide 2023 , students at the University of St Andrews are the most satisfied in the UK.
The University has one of the best first-year retention rates in Scotland.
Almost 100% (99.27%) of our 2021-2022 entrants continued in their studies at St Andrews, less than 1% transferred to other universities, and less than 1% dropped out of higher education altogether.
The University of St Andrews is top in Scotland and one of the four leading universities in the UK according to The Complete University Guide 2025 , joining Cambridge, Oxford, and the London School of Economics in the UK top four, and has been ranked top in Scotland since the Guide was first published in 2007.
The University was named the leading university in the UK by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 and ranked top in the Guardian University Guide 2024 .
The University was also recognised for its sustainability work in the QS World University Rankings: Sustainability report, leaping an impressive 57 places to rank joint 86 th .
The most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF) , in 2021, ranked St Andrews' research amongst the highest quality in the country.
More than 88% of research carried out by the University was classed as world-leading or internationally excellent.
According to the most recent Graduate Outcomes survey (2020-2021), more than 96% of our undergraduate first-degree level graduates were in either full-time employment or further study.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/edi:
Equality, diversity and inclusion is a core pillar in the University Strategy .
"As a truly international university, our ambition is to be a beacon of inclusivity.
We will achieve this through an approach that empowers our whole community and involves a determined shift in culture.
Inclusivity will inform all of our policies and practices." The Principal, Professor Sally Mapstone
At St Andrews, we see diversity as a strength and value the rich variety of backgrounds, identities and experiences of our staff, students and alumni.
We are committed to strengthening our ethos and are proud of the journey so far, while also recognising that there is still work to be done.
More information can be found on the University’s equality, diversity and inclusion web pages .
We are committed to creating an inclusive study and work environment for all.
Our diversity calendar can be used to raise your own awareness of equality and inclusion and to help plan events and initiatives in an inclusive way.
As part of the University’s strategic priority to drive forward its diversity agenda, we publish annual indicators of how we are progressing in relation to a number of areas and measures.
Access external resources and best practice pertaining to inclusive and anti-colonial practice.
The Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Project Fund is open to all staff and students in the University and supports projects that advance equality across the University and beyond.
Contact details for members of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) team at St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/glossary:
This section outlines and defines a number of useful terms relating to academic advising and academic progression.
Jump to any section of the glossary using the alphabetical links.
Whether students study online or in person, attendance at classes, tutorials, exams and all other academic activities is a vital part of their learning.
If students are unavoidably absent from a module, it is their responsibility to communicate with the affected Schools as soon as possible.
Students must submit a self-certificate of absence for each affected lecture, tutorial or module, and contact the appropriate staff member to follow up as soon as possible, or in advance for a planned absence.
Self-certificates of absence are available on the ‘My details and development’ workspace on MySaint .
A notice sent to a student by email and copied to staff who can provide support and guidance if students are at risk of encountering academic problems.
Most academic alerts are issued because of absence from a compulsory element of a degree, or failure to submit coursework .
A unique University of St Andrews tradition where older students adopt first-year students as ‘children’ and guide them in a system of mentoring.
This system helps first-year students to meet new people.
Many of the friendships that begin as part of the academic family tradition continue throughout a student’s time at the University and beyond.
The University has a policy on good academic practice which all students must follow.
Breaking the rules, or principles, of the policy will be considered academic misconduct.
Examples of misconduct include plagiarism, multiple submission (submitting the same piece of work for assessment more than once in the same module, to more than one module, or in another context), false citation, and misconduct in exams or tests and penalties range from written warnings and reduction of module grades (in some cases to zero) to, in extreme cases, termination of studies .
The academic year, also sometimes referred to as a session , starts in September and ends in June for undergraduate students and August for taught postgraduate students.
St Andrews has two semesters each academic year: Martinmas semester from September to December and Candlemas semester from January to May.
Some degree programmes allow direct entry to second year for applicants who have been awarded up to 120 credits in recognition of their previous experience.
These advanced standing credits (ASCs) are awarded automatically if a student applies for direct entry on their application.
If a student switches to direct entry on arrival, they should ask their Adviser of Studies to arrange the award.
The Advice and Support Centre, commonly known as 'the ASC', is part of Student Services and the first port of call for any queries.
ASC staff can help students with a variety of issues, from paying bills or obtaining an academic transcript to getting advice on visas, making a complaint, and personal matters.
If necessary, the team can also book appointments with one of Student Services’ specialist advisers for further support.
Students need the approval of their Adviser of Studies before they can enrol in any module.
Students in the Faculties of Arts, Divinity, and Science are assigned an Adviser of Studies, who is a member of academic staff.
Advisers of Studies are assigned before each academic year (usually in August) for new students and for students entering Honours.
Each student must meet their adviser at the start of the academic year to discuss and approve module choices.
Advisers of Studies can also help with degree options and academic regulations.
Different arrangements are made for students in the Faculty of Medicine, who do not make individual module choices.
All undergraduate students in the Faculties of Arts, Divinity, and Science must meet their Adviser of Studies at the beginning of each academic year (or in January if not studying in St Andrews during Semester 1).
Attending the meeting is a compulsory part of the matriculation process , which must be completed to become a registered student.
Until a student's module choices are approved by their Adviser of Studies at this meeting, and confirmed in the academic advising system , students are not officially enrolled in those modules.
Undergraduate students in Medicine do not need to take part in the central advising process.
The Alternative Format Suite (AFS) produces electronic accessible reading materials for students who have difficulties accessing print.
It produces accessible books in various formats, including Proofed-Word doc, Searchable-PDF, Text-with-Audio-DAISY, and Braille and Bespoke Tactile Diagrams.
Some modules state that students can't take the module in some circumstances, for example, when two modules cover similar subjects.
A student can appeal an academic decision, such as a mark received for assessed work or if they are not accepted on an Honours programme.
The University provides official rules on when students can and cannot appeal.
The appeals process does not cover complaints about the standard or quality of service provided by the University.
The process that provides students with feedback on their coursework or exam performance.
Halls of residence are managed by a wardennial team made up of a Halls Life Coordinator (or warden), sometimes a deputy warden, and a number of assistant wardens.
The team works with student residents, the hall committee, and the University's residential services team to build a strong and supportive community and hall identity.
The team also provides advice and support to students who need assistance outside regular office hours (evenings, nights and weekends).
The Associate Deans for Students, Associate Provosts, and Associate Deans for Curriculum deputise for the Deans and Provost in a variety of student matters.
The Associate Dean, Students (Arts and Divinity) and Associate Dean, Students (Science) deal with advising and welfare issues for undergraduate students in Arts, Divinity, and Science, and the Associate Provost, Students deals with advising and welfare issues for postgraduate students across all faculties.
If a student's Adviser of Studies or Director of Teaching is unable to resolve a problem, they may recommend that the student arranges a meeting with one of the Associate Deans or Associate Provosts.
Appointments can be booked through the Advice and Support Centre (ASC) .
The student-run organisation for the support and development of University sports clubs.
All matriculated students at St Andrews are automatically members of the Athletic Union.
The AU is led by a full-time student president who takes a year away from their studies and manages all the affiliated clubs and teams at St Andrews.
The academic year is made up of two semesters.
Candlemas semester starts in January and ends with exams in May.
Martinmas is the first semester of the academic year, from September to December.
The Chaplaincy provides guidance and support to all students and staff regardless of their faith or philosophy of life.
The team organises a number of religious and non-religious events over the academic year, which include sermons, concerts, and in-conversation evenings, provides pastoral care, and runs non-denominational support groups.
Class representatives, known commonly as class reps, are elected student volunteers whose job is to enhance learning and teaching at every level of undergraduate and postgraduate study.
There are class reps for student year groups, areas of study, and specific modules who provide feedback to teaching staff on the student learning experience within their School.
A grade is attached to a module and provides a numeric value between zero and 20 (to one decimal place) to express the final outcome of a module.
Marks are given to individual pieces of work, such as essays, dissertations, and exam questions.
School handbooks explain the scale used in the School and, if they use a marking scale other than zero to 20, will explain their procedures for marking and for conversion of marks to final grades.
Students can use the University's complaints procedure if they are dissatisfied with the quality and standard of any service that it provides.
The complaints process does not cover situations where a student wishes to appeal an academic decision and marks cannot be changed as a result of a complaint.
The University is committed to tackling issues of student misconduct.
The University can take action against students for academic misconduct and non-academic misconduct .
The University has a lawful duty to protect the privacy of all students.
To comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) outlined in the Data Protection Act 2018 , staff are not able to disclose personal data to parents, supporters or guardians other than in the most exceptional circumstances.
The University also states in its Student Data Protection Code that “personal information will not be given out without the student’s permission.
This restriction includes passing information to parents, legal guardians and next of kin”.
Means the same as degree and programme and refers to a particular programme of study leading to a degree award.
Examples include MA (Hons) Ancient History and Economics or BSc (Hons) Biology with Arabic.
The University also offers summer short courses and online short courses that do not lead to a degree.
Work that is submitted for assessment during the semester.
Typical forms of coursework include essays and lab reports.
Coursework is marked and contributes to the overall grade for the module.
If coursework is submitted after the specified deadline, the mark awarded will be reduced according to University policy.
A coursework extension allows a student more time to complete coursework when a particular situation has made it difficult to meet a deadline.
To request a coursework extension, the student must contact their course or module coordinator and complete a self-certificate .
A coursework extension is approved by the relevant School and is not guaranteed.
If it is approved, the School decides the length of the extension.
Credits represent the amount of learning in a module .
One credit is approximately ten hours of learning.
A full-time undergraduate degree has 120 credits in each academic year .
The Student Services Response team, also known as the Critical Responders, provide support to students in crisis outside regular business hours.
The critical responders can be reached by calling +44 (0)1334 46 8999.
The University's Schools and Departments all belong to one of the four faculties, and each faculty is led by a Dean.
The Faculties of Arts and Divinity are led by the Assistant Vice-Principal (AVP) Dean of Arts and Divinity, the Faculty of Science is led by the AVP Dean of Science, and the Faculty of Medicine is led by the Dean of Medicine.
The role of AVP (Dean of Learning and Teaching) and Provost is supported by a number of Associate Deans and two Associate Provosts.
A deferral is when a student takes an assessment after the end of a semester .
Students can send a deferral request to the Director of Teaching in their School .
Deferrals:
Deferral of assessments is not approved for minor illnesses or permanent or long-term conditions that are under medical control.
If a student has a prolonged chronic illness or disability they should contact the Student Services team for advice before the assessment deadline.
The words 'degree', ' course ' and ' programme ' refer to a particular combination of modules and assessments that lead to a degree award.
The following are degree examples:
A degree is classified based on the overall marks received .
Different classification schemes are used for different types of degree.
The University comprises a number of academic Schools and Departments, which are organised into four faculties .
Academic Schools used to be known as departments, but a department is now usually a specialised division in a School.
For example, the School of Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies comprises the Departments of Philosophy, Social Anthropology, and Film Studies.
There are also a number of professional service units at St Andrews which are referred to as departments, such as human resources.
These departments support the academic Schools.
Some degree programmes in the Faculties of Divinity and Science offer direct entry to second year for appropriately qualified applicants.
While a direct-entry student can complete their degree in a shorter time, this option greatly reduces or may even remove the option to switch to a different degree programme.
Direct-entry students take assessments that affect whether or not they will be admitted to Honours during their first semester of study, which can be a risk academically.
The Director of Teaching in each School or Department is responsible for all aspects of learning, teaching and assessment in the modules delivered by that School or Department.
The University provides support for students who declare a disability.
The Disability team has specialist advisers who give advice to students with physical disabilities, sensory impairment, unseen medical conditions, longstanding health or medical conditions, mental health difficulties, autistic spectrum disorders, and specific learning differences.
David Russell Apartments and Fife Park are known as 'DRA'.
These are University student accommodation buildings, known as halls of residence.
A type of funding available to students from the UK who have a disability, ongoing medical condition, longstanding mental health problem, or a specific learning difficulty like dyslexia.
DSA:
The University's degrees are organised into four faculties: Arts, Divinity, Medicine, and Science.
Each School belongs to one of these faculties.
Most of the subjects students study will be offered by the School in their faculty, but many students take modules offered by more than one School.
Only students in the Faculty of Medicine can take Medicine modules.
Students must complete the academic advising process every academic year.
The process must be completed by 9am on Monday of the third week of semester, and must include meeting their Adviser of Studies in person.
If students do not meet the deadline, they will not be officially enrolled in any modules at the start of teaching.
Entrant students will not be allowed to start their studies and will have to reapply to the University and returning students will have their studies terminated without the right to appeal.
Matriculation is the process to formally register as a student.
When a student does not complete matriculation by the end of the third week of teaching , they will receive 'Failure to matriculate' reminders from the University.
If the student does not take action after receiving the reminders, a termination of studies may apply.
Students must complete matriculation each academic year.
A study option available with some integrated Masters programmes that allows a student to complete a programme in four years of study.
It is similar to direct second-year entry, but provides additional support in the first year.
The information that students receive about their performance on coursework or exams.
Feedback is part of the assessment process, and can be:
The Freshers’ Fayre happens during Orientation Week and is when all the student-run clubs and societies set up stalls to introduce themselves and their groups to new students.
New students can meet the representatives and sign up to become members of their chosen societies.
The Sports Fayre runs at the same time as the Freshers’ Fayre and is organised by the Athletic Union .
Sports groups and University sports staff, known collectively as Saints Sport , introduce students to the sports and facilities on offer in St Andrews.
On 5 January 1800, John Honey, a student of the University, rescued members of the crew of a small ship called the 'Janet of Macduff' that had run aground off the East Sands of St Andrews.
Every year, on 30 April, students join a procession by candlelight to the East Sands in his memory.
A piper leads the procession and students lay a wreath at the site of the shipwreck.
This tradition is called 'The Gaudie' and it happens the evening before the May Dip .
The General degree can be completed in three years and is available in the:
The degree involves studying modules at 1000, 2000 and 3000 level .
Students who start an Honours degree but do not meet the entry requirements for Honours may need to transfer to a General degree.
The University policy on good academic practice outlines how students should conduct themselves during their academic studies.
The policy explains what is meant by academic misconduct , the process for dealing with suspected academic misconduct, and the possible penalties.
A grade is the weighted average of the marks that students receive for each of their assessments in a module .
Assessments can include coursework, class tests, and exams.
Grades are calculated using a 20-point scale at St Andrews.
A module grade is rounded to one decimal place.
Students receive their degree award at their graduation ceremony.
There are two graduation ceremonies each year at St Andrews, in June and November.
Each University hall of residence has a Halls Life team who organise events and social activities.
The team also care for the wellbeing and safety of the hall residents, and help them make the most of their experience at university.
Some Halls Life team members are students who live in the hall they represent.
The final part of an Honours degree that involves study at 3000, 4000, and 5000 level in some cases.
To gain Honours entry, students must meet the sub-honours requirements for their degree.
Fixed time limits apply to the completion of the Honours part of a degree, depending on the mode of study .
An undergraduate programme with two parts: sub-honours and Honours .
Honours degrees involve studying modules at 1000, 2000, 3000 and 4000 level .
Integrated Masters involves study at 5000 level.
When studying full time, students will usually complete an Honours degree in four years.
Integrated Masters degrees will usually take five years.
Completing an Honours degree on a different mode of study will take longer.
Some programmes offer direct entry into the second year of a degree and students can complete their degree in less time.
The University's Entry to Honours Policy defines the rules for progression to the Honours part of an Honours degree.
The required module grades are included in the programme requirements.
Depending on their programme of study and their circumstances, students who do not meet the requirements for Honours entry may be given other progression options or may be able to request a review of the decision.
Some Schools in the Faculty of Science offer Integrated Masters degree programmes.
These are five-year undergraduate Honours programmes.
The Integrated Masters degrees are different from the one-year postgraduate Masters programmes.
The Master in Science (MSci) is a five-year undergraduate Integrated Masters programme, and the Master of Science (MSc) is a one-year postgraduate Masters programme.
The Honours entry requirements for Integrated Masters programmes are higher than for Bachelor of Science (BSc) programmes.
The nickname for John Burnet Hall, one of the University halls of residence.
A lateness penalty is applied when formally assessed coursework is submitted after the deadline.
There are three schemes that define how the lateness penalty is applied:
Similar schemes apply where work is marked in percentages.
The School selects the lateness penalty scheme.
Penalties do not apply if an authorised extension has been granted.
A leave of absence is a pause in a student's course of study.
Students must apply for an academic leave of absence and get approvel to take a break from their studies.
A leave of absence is temporary and is different from a withdrawal from studies .
The level of a module indicates its academic difficulty and the amount of assumed background learning.
The level of a module is indicated by the first digit of the numerical part of its code.
For example:
Level 1 corresponds to level 7 on the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF).
Level 2 corresponds to a level 8 on the SCQF, and so on.
Students will usually take level 1 modules in their first year of study, level 2 modules in their second year, and so on.
This is not a strict rule.
Many students take some level 1 modules in their second year.
If necessary, and subject to any visa restrictions, students are allowed to take three years of study to complete the requirements at level 1 and level 2 for Honours entry.
MA is the main Honours degree offered in the Faculty of Arts, and is equivalent to BA offered at many other institutions.
St Andrews uses the title MA for historical reasons, in common with the other ancient Scottish universities.
St Andrews also offers the unique BA (International Honours) degree , in partnership with the College of William & Mary in Virginia, USA.
Martinmas is the first semester, from September to December.
Masters degrees are offered in every Faculty and include the following postgraduate taught programmes:
There are also Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Master of Research (MRes) degrees.
Postgraduate Masters programmes are different from undergraduate Integrated Masters programmes .
Matriculation is the compulsory process of registering as a student.
A University tradition that involves hundreds of students plunging into the North Sea from the East Sands beach at dawn on the first day of May.
The tradition is said to promote good luck in exams.
Nickname for Andrew Melville Hall, one of the University halls of residence.
The Module Management System (MMS) is the University's online system where academic modules are managed.
MMS is used for submitting coursework , returning feedback , and processing exam results.
Students can study a programme in various ways, or modes:
The mode of study defines the number of credits students can take each semester and the minimum number of credits they must gain to progress to the next semester.
A module is a self-contained unit of teaching, learning and assessment.
Students must achieve a final grade of at least 7.0 out of 20.0 on the University common reporting scale to pass a module and gain credits.
When your Adviser of Studies has approved your module choices, they will show with a solid 'tick' in the advising system, and your 'advising status' will be 'confirmed'.
At this point, your choices are recorded in the main student database.
It takes some time for the information to be transferred to other IT systems:
If you think there is a problem with confirmed modules not showing up in other systems after these times, you should contact itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk for MMS, Moodle and student record card, and timetabling@st-andrews.ac.uk for personal timetables (please allow two working days for new or changed modules to show on your personal timetable).
The availability of a module defines which students can take it.
Some modules are available to any student who has passed the prerequisites .
Other modules are restricted to:
The number of students that can take particular modules is limited.
The University's module catalogue lists all availability restrictions for each module.
Moodle is the online system the University uses to provide course materials to students.
The MySaint portal is the gateway into your virtual learning environment.
MySaint brings the learning systems and resources you need to do your studies together in one online space.
The University is committed to tackling student behaviour that adversely impacts other students, staff, or local residents and will take action to resolve these issues when appropriate.
Non-academic misconduct can include physical attacks, abusive behaviour, bullying, sexual harrassment, and noise.
Academic misconduct is dealt with under the good academic practice policy; non-academic misconduct is dealt with under separate procedures.
The most serious cases of non-academic misconduct can result in a student being expelled from the University.
Orientation Week is when students who are new to St Andrews get fully matriculated and settle into university life.
There are a number of events students must attend during the week so they are prepared for their first classes.
The Freshers’ and Sports Fayres run during Orientation Week, providing an opportunity for students to find out about the student-run societies and sports facilities available at St Andrews.
Postgraduate research or postgraduate researcher.
Postgraduate taught or postgraduate teaching.
The Pier Walk is a weekly St Andrews tradition.
Students attend a Chapel service and then walk along the length of the pier east of the town wearing their red gowns.
The first Chapel service and Pier Walk, on the Sunday at the end of Freshers’ Week , marks the end of the week before the Martinmas semester begins.
Plagiarism is the act of taking another's ideas and representing them as one's own.
It is one of the forms of academic misconduct that is forbidden under the policy on good academic practice .
A programme of study at level 11 or higher on the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF).
Students typically complete an undergraduate degree before studying at postgraduate level.
A student registered to study this level of programme is known as a postgraduate.
A taught postgraduate programme involving one semester of study for full-time students.
A taught postgraduate programme involving two semesters of study for full-time students.
An online process for students to submit their provisional module choices.
It takes place before advising and the approval of module choices.
Preadvising allows students and Schools to plan for the next academic year .
Students can change their mind about the modules they chose during preadvising, but any changes must be made before the advising meeting with the Advisor of Studies .
In some cases, changes can be made after the meeting, as long as they are made by the readvising deadline.
The academic knowledge  student must have before taking a specific module .
In most cases, it involves passing other modules, or a pass in an external exam for first-year modules.
Allowing a student to take a module without meeting a prerequisite requires permission from the relevant School and the student's Adviser of Studies .
An academic process that the University applies when a student fails to gain the expected number of academic credits .
The student will receive a probation letter explaining the conditions they must meet to be allowed to continue their studies.
Conditions include passing a specific amount of credits per semester in the first exam diet for the next two semesters.
Probation is not recorded in the student's academic record.
The Proctor is responsible for areas related to learning and teaching, such as oversight of the teaching and learning strategy, regulations and policy, as well as managerial responsibility for Student Services, the Chaplaincy, and the Students' Association.
A programme of study is the combination of modules and assessments required to obtain a particular degree.
A programme name like MA (Hons) Ancient History and Economics or BSc (Hons) Biology with Arabic indicates what degree award students will get when they meet their programme requirements .
The terms course and degree are often used instead of programme.
The requirements for a University programme specify which modules or combinations of modules a student must pass to qualify for the corresponding award.
Programme requirements also include the Honours entry requirements.
The modules that students choose for the next academic year are likely to affect the modules they can choose in subsequent years.
The Provost is responsible for the development of postgraduate education and research and for the postgraduate community.
A St Andrews tradition where first-year students wear a fancy dress costume chosen by their academic parents , play pranks and games, and gather in St Salvator’s Quadrangle for the annual Raisin Monday foam fight.
A short time when students can make changes to the modules they selected during advising .
Changes must be approved by the student's Adviser of Studies .
Readvising for:
Changes to Semester 2 modules selected at the start of the academic year can be made between early January and the end of the Semester 2 readvising period.
Changes that organisations must make to ensure that someone's disability does not put them at a substantial disadvantage compared with non-disabled people or people who don't share their disability.
The University provides support for students and staff who declare a disability at any stage of their degree programme.
Reasonable adjustments will be identified on a case-by-case basis according to the evidence and individual needs assessment.
Students don't have to inform the University of their disability, however, if they don't it might make it harder to access the support and reasonable adjustments available to them.
A reassessment allows students to retake the assessment of a module if the original grade is between 4 and below 7 (the pass threshold).
Reassessment may not be available for all modules.
The Module Board decides the reassessment method.
Grades for modules passed at reassessment are capped at 7.0, except for English for Academic Purposes modules.
For failed reassessments, at Honours level, the original grade is used in the degree calculation.
If a student fails a reassessment, they cannot retake the reassessment but may be able to retake the module.
The Lord Rector of the University of St Andrews is the President of University Court (the highest governing body of the University).
The Rector is completely independent and external to the University, represents the student community, and plays an informal and pastoral role for students.
Since 1858, the Rector has been elected by students every three years.
The red gown is a traditional form of clothing at the University.
Most undergraduate students, except students of the School of Divinity, wear a red gown for special academic events.
Students wear the red gown differently every year of their degree.
This tradition represents each student growing wiser each year and becoming more independent until they graduate.
The red gown was introduced post-Reformation as a compulsory 'school uniform' for young students to prevent them from illegal drinking in public houses in Scotland.
The process for returning to studies after a leave of absence.
To resume their studies, the student must demonstrate that the circumstances that caused the leave of absence have been resolved.
A University staff team also known as Academic Registry, who are responsible for the administration of student records.
They provide support for students, Schools, senior management and stakeholders on course applications, matriculation, progression and academic awards.
A nickname for St Regulus Hall, one of the University halls of residence.
The University's common reporting scale is used for reporting module grades.
The highest grade is 20.0 and the pass threshold is 7.0.
Report and Support is an online tool for anyone connected to the University who wants to report incidents of bullying, discrimination, abuse, assault or harassment, as well as wellbeing concerns.
Reports can be made anonymously or with contact details.
An exam taken as part of reassessment in a module .
Students who can take a resit are contacted by email and invited to register.
A student who takes a year out from studying to work full time for the Students' Association .
Sabbatical officers are elected by other students.
The brand of the University's sports department.
This includes sports facilities, services and activities.
A nickname for St Salvator's Hall, one of the University halls of residence.
S-coding is an academic policy applied to the final grade of a module when all or most of a student's work has been affected by special circumstances.
When S-coding is applied, the student retains the module credits but the final module grade may not be included in the degree classification calculation.
S-coding may be used to give a student the opportunity for reassessment .
The University has several Schools, each responsible for the teaching and research of a particular academic subject.
Some Schools are divided into departments .
A School president is the representative of the students of a School or Department.
A School president communicates the students' views to the relevant University staff, chairs meetings attended by staff and students, and manages class and School representatives.
A compulsory process that students must follow to inform the University when they can't attend a class, exam or academic meeting, or complete an assignment.
A period of academic instruction.
There are two semesters of module teaching in the academic year at the University of St Andrews, and a summer period for Masters dissertation work.
Semester 1, also known as Candelmas, runs from September to December.
Semester 2, also known as Martinmas, runs from January to May.
An academic year .
A society is a group of students with a shared interest.
Students can become members of one or more societies and enjoy their events and activities.
A large number of academic, artistic, political and cultural interests are represented by the wide variety of societies available at St Andrews.
Membership fees apply.
All University societies are part of the Students' Association .
A promise or oath that students must sign when they complete their matriculation to guarantee they will respect others and behave according to the University values of honesty, integrity, reliability, punctuality, tolerance, politeness, and mutual support in all academic and non-academic activities during their studies.
All four ancient Scottish universities have a Sponsio Academica that students originally recited in Latin.
Students can choose to join one or more University sports clubs.
Various competitive and recreational teams are available at St Andrews for all levels of ability and aspiration.
The University has a Student Data Protection Code which states that “personal information will not be given out without the student’s permission.
The Code forms part of the University's lawful duty to protect the privacy of all students under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) outlined in the Data Protection Act 2018 .
A variety of schemes where University student mentors provide support for other students.
New students can request a mentor and existing students can volunteer to be a mentor.
This University department is responsible for student advice and support, including counselling, providing support for wellbeing and mental health, running the University's disability services, giving money advice, and supporting residential life.
Whether you require a visa to come to the UK to undertake a course of study at the University of St Andrews will depend upon your nationality, and the duration of the course you intend to study.
If you have any other queries about visa applications, email the International Advice team at advint@st-andrews.ac.uk .
A student organisation, also known as the 'Union', involved in all areas of student life, including events, student representation, student support, and extra-curricular activities.
All registered students are automatically members of the Students ' Association.
An opportunity to study a semester, or a year of your degree, outside the UK.
The first two years of an Honours degree programme when students get a broad understanding of their intended degree subject.
Students can also take courses in other subjects depending on their interests.
Teaching and exam arrangements to help students with disabilities to access their course of study.
A support plan may include access to learning materials in alternative formats or extra time for exams.
An academic policy that defines how the University responds to concerns about a student when their health or behaviour affects their ability to continue their studies or cope with university life.
A support to study plan determines what support will be available to the student and how it will be provided.
When a student's academic performance is unsatisfactory for an extended period, the University may require the student to leave the University.
This is known as a termination of studies.
A compulsory online module to help new students understand the University's expectations of academic conduct , and how to avoid academic misconduct .
An academic transcript is an official record of a student's academic modules, grades, and degrees if applicable.
Students can use their academic transcript to prove their academic education.
Undergraduate .
A programme of study at level 9 or 10 on the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF).
Also known as a Bachelor's degree in the USA.
A student registered to study an undergraduate programme is known as an undergraduate.
V-coding is an academic policy applied to module grades for students in exceptional circumstances.
When V-coding is used, the module grade is cancelled and recorded as a ‘V’ in the student’s academic transcript.
The module is removed from the student's course of study.
Students cannot request V-coding.
Only the Proctor or delegate may offer this when it is justified by the student's academic and personal circumstances.
The University of St Andrews is a Student visa sponsor.
This means that we are able to welcome students from all over the world to study.
If you are studying under a Student visa, you will be need to have your passport and visa documentation verified twice each year by a member of staff.
Verification will take place at matriculation and at the confirmation event held in Week 3 of Semester 2.
If you need to renew your visa while studying at the University please contact our International Advisers at advint@st-andrews.ac.uk , or see the support for international students pages .
If you have any queries regarding passport and visa checks or the confirmation event please contact visas@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The wardennial team are the key contacts for students living in a hall of residence.
Each hall has a wardennial team made up of a Warden or Halls Life Coordinator, assistant wardens, and a deputy warden in larger halls.
They provide advice and support outside regular office hours.
The team also work with the hall's residents, the hall committee, and the University's residential services team to build a strong and supportive community and hall identity.
Students who choose to permanently leave the University must apply for a withdrawal from studies before leaving.
A withdrawal from studies is permanent, and is different from a leave of absence .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/annual-reviews/2024:
"At St Andrews, we are at our best when we come together with a shared purpose." – Professor Dame Sally Mapstone FRSE
Amid the significant financial headwinds facing UK higher education, and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, in 2024 St Andrews continued to uphold its reputation for excellence in teaching, research, and global collaboration.
Our strengths in student experience and outcomes, alongside our deeply embedded international connectivity, have remained cornerstones of our success.
We once again performed well in key UK rankings, underpinned by the National Student Survey 2024, according to which students at St Andrews are more positive about their education than students at any other mainstream university in the UK.
This review provides a snapshot of some individual and collective achievements, under the themes of the University Strategy 2022-2027.
In September we launched Making Waves, a £300 million fundraising campaign in support of our world-leading ambitions.
Making Waves will help create ‘New College’, the first college to be built in St Andrews in nearly 300 years, which will house our new Business School and the School of International Relations, educating the global leaders of the future.
We enhanced our digital education portfolio of online courses for postgraduate study and expanded our offering by introducing a range of professional skills short courses.
Our first cohorts joined us in 2024 for these self-paced courses in high-demand fields such as Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, and Machine Learning.
The launch of our innovative 100-year partnership with the Corrour estate, near Fort William, was emblematic of our leadership in sustainability .
The partnership will focus on nature-based solutions to the climate crisis, developing land management techniques and peatland restoration and supporting our work to be net zero by 2035.
Our commitment to making St Andrews a diverse place to work and study was underlined by achieving an institutional Silver Athena Swan award in recognition of our continued efforts to advance gender equality across the University; and a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award for our ongoing work to advance race equality.
The Entrepreneurship Centre hosted a successful Innovation Week, bringing together students, alumni and the wider community.
Featuring speaker sessions, interactive workshops, and networking opportunities, the event provided hands-on learning and access to industry leaders, reinforcing the University’s role as a hub for entrepreneurial thinking.
The thread that brings the strategy together is a commitment to global and local social responsibility .
Our Community Fund, the centrepiece of our socially responsible activities at a regional level, has completed its fourth year, supporting grassroots and charity projects in Fife.
As we reflect on 2024, I extend my deepest gratitude to our funders, partners, and supporters.
Your generosity and collaboration have been instrumental in driving forward our ambitious initiatives, from advancing groundbreaking research to enhancing student support and investing in world-class facilities.
At St Andrews, we are at our best when we come together with a shared purpose.
Our collective commitment to excellence, respect for diverse perspectives, and unwavering dedication to innovation and inclusivity will guide us through the complexities of the present and toward a stronger future.
I invite you to read this review to see how, together, we continue to shape our University and the world beyond.
Professor Dame Sally Mapstone FRSE Principal and Vice-Chancellor
• 10,234 students • 8,388 undergraduates • 1,846 postgraduates • 135 countries • 91.0% of students enter employment or further study after graduation
• 2,906 staff • 4 faculties • 18 schools • 31 units
• Tuition fee income up 5.3% to £158.6m • New donations from philanthropy.
New funds committed £18.9m.
Funds received £10.3m • Making Waves Campaign total (Jan 25) £132.6m • Investment income, which helps to support scholarships, bursaries and widening access initiatives £5.8m
The St Andrews Repair and Advice Café launched, thanks to funding from the University’s Community Fund.
The monthly café, run by Transition, is open to students, staff and the wider community.
Items fixed included watches, clocks, shoes, a sleeping bag, a vase, a wheelchair tyre, solar lights, and a handbag strap.
The University was awarded a £2 million grant by the Wolfson Foundation to enable the development of green hydrogen technologies that will play a key role in decarbonising the energy and chemical industries.
The Green Hydrogen Accelerator will provide dedicated space at Eden Campus for world-leading research into the efficient production of hydrogen from water and its use in energy storage and chemic production.
A major new partnership between the University and NHS Fife was confirmed, allowing students studying Medicine at St Andrews to do all their clinical training and complete their primary medical qualification in Fife with the new 5-year medical degree.
Researchers working in the new Scottish Brain Sciences (SBS) laboratory at the University’s Eden Campus are collaborating with Roche Diagnostics to open the way to the first blood tests for Alzheimer’s disease in its early stages to be carried out in Scotland.
The University hosted Former First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to celebrate the launch of Scotland’s Future Speaker Series.
Ms Sturgeon’s spoke of her “innate optimism” about the “power of politics to change lives for the better” and the role of young people’s voices and spirit in shaping Scotland’s Future.
In a week which celebrated the academic achievements of over 2000 graduates, award-winning writer and satirist Armando Iannucci spoke at a graduation ceremony about his imposter syndrome after receiving an Honorary Degree from the University.
Students at the University are more positive about their education than students at any other mainstream university in the UK, according to the results of the National Student Survey 2024.
St Andrews also came top in the UK for academic support and learning resources.
The University and Corrour signed an innovative 100- year partnership to focus on nature-based solutions to the climate crisis, developing land management techniques and peatland restoration.
The carbon benefits of this long-term partnership are estimated to be 100,000 tonnes of CO2e for St Andrews.
The Making Waves campaign to raise £300 million to support scholarships, research, academic programmes, and sustainability initiatives was officially unveiled with a series of events throughout St Andrews, including a torchlight parade through the town.
A new affordable and sustainable housing development for postgraduate students and staff was completed at the Grange, on the outskirts of St Andrews.
Working in partnership with Kingdom Initiatives for the first time, the new ‘university village’ will help reduce accommodation pressures in St Andrews.
The partnership between the University and Stagecoach celebrated its second anniversary by marking £1.7 million in cost savings for staff and students.
Since the scheme began bus users have travelled 22 million kilometres, made over 670,000 journeys and purchased almost 50,000 tickets.
Senior Lecturer Dr Peter Mackay was named Scotland’s new Makar, the National Poet for Scotland.
The role of Makar, a three-year tenure supported by the Scottish Government and the Scottish Poetry Library, is a prestigious literary position dedicated to championing poetry across Scotland.
Dr Mackay’s appointment marks a historic milestone as he is the first Makar to primarily write in Gaelic.
In March, a major new partnership between the University and NHS Fife was announced, meaning students studying medicine at St Andrews are now able to undertake all their clinical training and complete their primary medical qualification in Fife.
The new ScotCom programme will benefit patient care and medical research in Fife, while boosting Scotland’s overall training provision for new doctors.
September saw the launch of our Making Waves campaign, seeking to raise £300 million to support scholarships, research, academic programmes, and sustainability initiatives at St Andrews.
The ambitious campaign, which places students at its core, was officially unveiled with a series of events throughout St Andrews, including a torchlight parade through the town.
Making Waves focuses on four key areas: New College, the Digital Nexus Building, scholarships and bursaries, and endowed chairs.
New College will be the University’s first new college in nearly 300 years and will bring together the School of International Relations and the new Business School.
As part of the campaign launch, prominent business and technology leader David Jones joined more than 200 staff, students, alumni, and donors to celebrate the official launch of the University of St Andrews Business School in September.
Professor Mark Brewer took up the post as the first Dean of the St Andrews Business School in the same month.
2024 was another outstanding year in the rankings.
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 named St Andrews as its Scottish University of the Year and University of the Year for Student Experience.
All of our subjects were ranked in the top six in the UK.
Overall, St Andrews was ranked second in the UK, behind the London School of Economics, with Oxford and Cambridge ranked third and fourth respectively.
St Andrews also took top university in Scotland and second spot in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025, with all subjects ranking in the top 10, and seven ranking top in the UK.
Meanwhile, the new Daily Mail University Guide made St Andrews its University of the Year for Student Experience.
In the 2025 QS Rankings we ranked 104 in the list of the world’s top 1,500 universities, placing us among the top seven per cent of global higher education institutions.
Our Arts and Humanities subjects ranked amongst the strongest in the world for teaching and research in the QS University Rankings by Subject, with five schools and departments in the top 50 and a further eight in the top 100.
Students at St Andrews are more positive about their education than students at any other mainstream university in the UK, according to the results of the National Student Survey 2024, while St Andrews ranked top in Scotland and was one of the four leading universities in the UK according to The Complete University Guide 2025.
At the heart of our world-leading theme is achieving global excellence in research.
Among the successful and impactful research released in 2024 were studies in the communication of chimpanzees and elephants; interdisciplinary research on organic light-emitting diodes that use less power; a trial artificial nest project in the Cairngorms that led to an increase of 83% in capercaillie nest survival; and the discovery that ethnic groups in Scotland were over two times more likely to experience the death of someone close to them during Covid-19 than the white population.
We appointed a new Executive Director of Research Support Services as part of our ongoing enhancement of our research support and communications ecosystem, with focus on long-term academic performance, impact, influence, reputation development, increased funding revenue, and preparations for Research Excellence Framework 2029.
Researchers at work in the Robert Hammond lab in the School of Medicine at the University of St Andrews.
Epitomising the progress made under the Diverse theme in 2024 was the double success of securing a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award and a Silver Athena Swan Institutional Award.
Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter (REC) aims to help universities and research institutes in their work to improve the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic people in higher education.
Our successful application included a detailed self-assessment of our staff and student experience, curriculum and culture, leading to a comprehensive plan setting out a suite of actions to advance race equality, including strengthening race equality leadership, reforming recruitment, and bolstering antiracist pedagogy.
Meanwhile, Athena Swan awards recognised our progress in advancing gender equality across the University and plans for further progress focused around a number of priorities including increasing representation of women in senior roles, and addressing the gender pay gap.
Among the progress highlighted in our application and acknowledged by the assessment panel was the work to address gender-based violence, including St Andrews becoming the first University to be awarded the Emily Test Charter in 2023.
Charter awards are not an end in themselves, and attention is now focused on ensuring delivery of the action plans.
We have bolstered our EDI governance arrangements with a new EDI Committee and established Implementation Groups for Athena Swan and for the REC.
We launched our revamped Diversity and Inclusion Calendar webpages, drawing together information and events around key themes with initial pages focused on accessibility, gender equality, race equality, and health and wellbeing.
The pages are designed to bring together and promote diversity initiatives and resources from across the University, helping foster a culture of understanding and inclusion.
Recognising their important role in supporting belonging in St Andrews, and following a period of review and enhancement, our newly strengthened staff networks were relaunched in October.
Members of our BAME Staff Network, Staff with Disabilities and Neurodivergence Network, LGBTQI+ Employee Network, and the Parents and Carers Network featured in a suite of new videos to promote the networks to new members.
Graduating students in St Andrews wearing their national dress.
We continue to expand and enhance our digital education portfolio, with postgraduate courses delivered fully online as well as short courses aimed at helping people develop professional skills.
Our specialised online postgraduate courses provide students with a choice of entry points and the flexibility to study from anywhere in the world while becoming part of our diverse and international student community.
With study options ranging from one to three years, this year we added "Digital Art History" and "Global Digital Humanities" to the course list, adding to "Data Science" and "Data Literacy for Justice", launched in 2023.
Our first cohorts for online short courses joined us in October 2023 and the offerings continued to develop throughout 2024.
These self-paced, fully online courses provide in-depth learning in high-demand fields such as Data Science, FinTech, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, with four intakes across the year.
Delivered through a combination of pre-recorded content and interactive activities, these short courses focus on industry-relevant skills to help learners stay ahead in a rapidly changing professional landscape.
Lifelong learning is also at the heart of our online short course programme, with new Personal Development courses covering topics from modernist art to language studies and international relations.
Whether exploring new passions or refining existing talents, these courses offer an enriching learning experience.
A prioritised roadmap will deliver a further 14 new online short courses over the next 12 months.
New credit-bearing online micro-credentials will also be delivered from next year onwards.
These stackable awards will be developed through leveraging our existing Digital portfolio and co-design with industry partners and funders, such as the Scottish Government and Tay Cities Deal.
Beyond education, we are leveraging digital methods and data to improve University operations.
The data pipelines and store (DPaS) project – spanning Admissions, Planning, Estates, and Residential and Business Services – has made progress towards a well-integrated, well-governed data infrastructure to strengthen management reporting and facilitate evidence-based decision-making across the institution.
Our investment in digital innovation, for example by creating new digital media studios and production expertise, is creating new opportunities for both organisational growth and academic excellence, offering training and upskilling to academic staff on the latest digital design and build techniques.
The Digital team is now supporting an increasing number of programmes beyond the Digital Education Innovation Scheme, ensuring all online courses benefit from cutting-edge digital approaches.
A key Digital development is our new high-performance computing facility, designed in collaboration with researchers and installed this year.
This state-of-the-art system significantly enhances computing power, enabling advanced simulations and opening new frontiers in artificial intelligence and machine learning research.
Computer Science students using VR headsets.
The University continues to advance its leadership on sustainability through education, research, and operations.
Emblematic of this commitment is a landmark investment in nature-based solutions through a long-term partnership with a Highland estate.
This innovative 100-year collaboration between the University and Corrour, near Fort William, focuses on data-driven, regenerative land management and peatland restoration to address the climate crisis.
The partnership aims to stimulate joint research projects aligned with Corrour’s mission to lead landscape-scale ecological restoration through nature recovery and the encouragement of natural processes.
Key habitats include native and montane woodland, tall herb communities, and upland freshwater ecosystems such as peatlands, with a focus on enhancing natural carbon storage and biodiversity.
Through peatland restoration and the regeneration of native woodlands, the carbon benefit of this long-term partnership is estimated at 100,000 tonnes of CO₂e – a key contribution toward the University’s net zero strategy.
In May, the St Andrews Climate Change Conference – organised by University researchers and chaired by Dr James Rae of the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences – brought together academics from across disciplines for three days of engagement on sustainability research.
In October, the University launched its inaugural Sustainability Week.
Events included panel discussions, workshops, tree planting, nature walks, and sustainability tours of Eden Campus.
Halls of residence offered plant-based lunches, and visitors had the opportunity to meet the University’s herd of Highland cows, which graze land along the Fife Coastal Path as part of a biodiversity strategy.
The week concluded with the announcement of the 2024 winner of the St Andrews Prize for the Environment: the Kham River Restoration Mission, recognised for their work to revive a seasonal river flowing through the historic city of Aurangabad, India.
The project was awarded a $100,000 cash prize to support its ongoing efforts.
At Eden Campus – home of St Andrews Innovation and the heart of the University’s sustainability activity – a £2 million donation from the Wolfson Foundation is helping advance the St Andrews Green Hydrogen Accelerator.
The campus provides a unique environment for this research, with access to renewable energy, green hydrogen produced on-site, and biogenic carbon dioxide from the biomass power plant.
The University entered the global Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings for the first time and was placed in the 101–200 category out of 1,591 institutions worldwide for 2023.
Plans to expand solar power in St Andrews also progressed, with a scoping project evaluating the potential for installing solar panels on 65 University buildings.
The partnership with Stagecoach and Moffat and Williamson to offer a 75% discount on bus travel remains popular among staff, helping reduce commuting emissions and supporting rural bus services across North East Fife.
The University of St Andrews is committed to reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2035 – a full decade ahead of Scotland’s national target – reaffirming its role as a leader in sustainability.
St Andrews researchers Dr Iain Matthews, Dr Lydia Cole and Dr Althea Davies and PhD candidate Kayleigh Leatherbarrow at peatland, near Loch Treigh, Corrour.
In January, the EdenTay Founders Community brought together entrepreneurs, students, and alumni from the Tay Cities Universities to share ideas and build connections.
The event featured speakers such as Keith Millican (Director of Enterprise), Dr Ross Gillanders (Founder of Lightwater Sensors), and representatives from the universities of Dundee, Abertay, and St Andrews, as well as TechScaler.
Also in January, staff from St Andrews Innovation (SI) hosted a roadshow in collaboration with the School of Psychology and Neuroscience.
Open to all staff, researchers, and PhD students, the event highlighted the wide range of support available from SI, including the Entrepreneurship Centre, Technology Transfer Centre, Research Business Development, and the Rapid Prototyping Centre.
The Entrepreneurship Centre (EC) continues to offer practical entrepreneurial training, start-up and spin-out opportunities, and a dynamic calendar of events open to both the University community and the wider public.
Over the past year, the Centre has supported 16 student-led start-ups, including two launched by EC programme graduates.
Among them is "Harlyy", a time-tracking and management software company targeting the Indian market, co-founded by James McCorkindale (School of Computer Science) and Zeeshan Abbas (Business School).
The team won £10,000 in the Scottish Young EDGE competition.
Another EC-supported start-up, "Out N About", is an event-tracking platform aimed at fostering real-life connections on university campuses to reduce social isolation.
Co-founded by Annabella Cuenca Goddard (School of Management) and Chukwudike Bryan Uwanaka (School of Computer Science), the project also received £10,000 through Scottish Young EDGE.
Recent Maths graduate and Principal’s Medal recipient, Simone Korsgaard Jensen, secured a $250,000 investment through Entrepreneur First for her startup "Radical".
The company is pioneering personalised dosing in radiotherapy and exploring treatment reduction for pancreatic cancer.
Simone’s success highlights the vital role of the Entrepreneurship Centre and broader support networks in nurturing groundbreaking ideas.
In April, the University collaborated with NHS Fife to host Imagining the Future of Healthcare—a forum for healthcare professionals, researchers, and industry leaders to explore digital health solutions, policy innovation, and improvements in patient care.
Key challenges identified during the discussions are now being developed into projects by NHS Fife Innovation.
In May, the Entrepreneurship Centre and Research Business Development team hosted a life sciences summit on brain health in collaboration with Scottish Brain Sciences (SBS).
The summit brought together experts to explore new directions in neuroscience and health innovation.
Innovation Week 2024, held in October, brought students, staff, alumni, and the wider community together to celebrate entrepreneurship.
Organised by the Entrepreneurship Centre, the week featured speaker sessions, hands-on workshops, networking events, and competitions—providing direct access to industry leaders and reinforcing the University’s growing reputation as a hub for entrepreneurial thinking.
Students with Innovation Week keynote speaker Stuart Cassells – founder of world-famous bagpipe band The Red Hot Chilli Pipers and Head of Private Client Relationship Manager at Macallan.
Social Responsibility at the University of St Andrews is reflected in a wide-ranging commitment to societal impact through research, sustainability, and community engagement—addressing both local needs and global challenges.
One such initiative is Golf for Health, launched in 2023 in partnership with NHS Fife and expanded in 2024.
This pioneering programme integrates golf into primary care through social prescribing, supporting physical and mental well-being.
Participants benefit from both the exercise and the social interaction the sport encourages.
Dr Sam Warne (School of Medicine) shared findings from the pilot study at the "Golf, Health and Performance" conference, contributing global insights to the programme’s future development.
Environmental sustainability remains a key focus.
The University continued work on coastal habitat restoration across 30 sites along the Fife coast, supported by the Scottish Government’s Nature Restoration Fund.
Activities such as tree planting, wetland creation, and conservation grazing form part of this initiative.
The project was among 27 to receive part of a £4.1 million grant fund.
Students have also led impactful community efforts.
In April, the Spare Spoon Initiative was launched to tackle food waste and local hunger.
By offering free leftover meals from the Rector’s Café, the initiative served over 250 meals in its first week and continued throughout the year.
Meal updates shared via Instagram helped turn the café into a welcoming community hub.
The University Community Fund, now in its fourth year, continues to support local projects.
In 2024, it awarded £46,535 across 38 initiatives.
Grants included £1,000 for new equipment at Quinns Boxing Club (Springfield), £1,500 for electric heaters at Freuchie Scout Hall to improve energy efficiency, and £3,000 to Richmond’s Hope, a bereavement support charity for children, to enhance their services in Methil.
Internationally, St Andrews extended support to three Afghan medical students who were barred from completing their education in Afghanistan.
With support from the Linda Norgrove Foundation and the Scottish Government, the students are now continuing their studies in St Andrews with full tuition and living costs covered.
In 2024, the University hosted 16 summer schools, including the "Global Citizens Initiative" and "Scozia" for Ukrainian students, broadening access to academic opportunities.
The Students’ Association’s Charities Campaign raised over £32,000 through its Race2 event for three student-nominated charities: The Wave Project, Smartworks Scotland, and Emergency UK.
Further initiatives included the rollout of accessibility training and resources to better support disabled students, while over 30 staff and friends took part in an International Women’s Day dook, raising nearly £800 for Fife Women’s Aid.
Through its growing portfolio of sustainability projects, inclusive outreach, and socially conscious research, the University of St Andrews continues to lead in creating positive change both locally and around the world.
Representatives of the University, Kingdom Initiatives and Campion Homes joined the Principal in celebrating the formal handover of the Grange.
Highlighting just a few of the personal, professional and team achievements of our staff and students in 2024.
Top teachers at the University were recognised by colleagues and students as part of the 2023 Teaching Excellence Awards.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/history:
Founded in the 15th century, St Andrews is Scotland's first university and the third oldest in the English speaking world.
Find out more about the history of the University, its traditions and heritage in the pages below.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/support/confidentiality:
This means the University is not able to disclose personal data (even to parents or guardians), other than in the most exceptional of circumstances because of the provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018 .
The University further makes a declaration through its Student Data Protection Code , stating:
“personal information will not be given out without the student’s permission.
This restriction includes passing information to parents, legal guardians and next of kin.”
This means that the University cannot, without a student’s permission disclose:
This is regardless of the source of the student tuition fees.
The University may contact a student’s listed emergency contact in very serious circumstances where the student is in grave danger and unable to give permission.
The decision to contact an emergency contact will be taken by two senior members of staff and will be based on the agreement that communication with an emergency contact is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the student.
Student Services Ask a question Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2020

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/contact/schools:
The University of St Andrews is comprised of a number of Academic Schools and Departments, which are organised into four Faculties .
The contact details of each School and Department can be accessed from the list below.
University staff and students are also able to contact all staff members who hold a specified role within all Academic Schools.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/contact:
The IT Service Desk will be your main point of contact for all computer, internet and other IT-related issues.
You can reach the IT Service Desk in several ways.
Sign in with your University credentials to log support calls and view the progress of any existing calls under your name in the IT Self Service portal .
Submit a support call
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3333 Email: itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk
IT Services may ask you to share your screen using TeamViewer to help with your issue.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/contact/student-conduct:
The University is committed to tackling issues of student misconduct and maintaining the ‘town and gown’ relationship.
This involves being aware of the issues affecting both students and permanent residents and taking action to resolve these issues where appropriate.
In an emergency, phone 999 (Police Scotland).
For non-emergency issues, phone 101 .
You can report misconduct to a Student Conduct Officer by emailing studentconduct@st-andrews.ac.uk or phoning +44 (0)1334 46 3445 or +44 (0)1334 46 4356 .
You can also report incidents of student misconduct using the University’s Report and Support tool .
You can either make a report anonymously, or report with contact details so that the Student Conduct Officer can contact with you.
The vast proportion of the student community accepts their adult responsibilities and are never involved in misconduct investigations during their period of study.
The University must seek to maintain and balance the so-called ‘Town-Gown’ relationship.
This involves an awareness of the issues affecting both students and permanent residents and taking action to resolve these issues where appropriate.
University staff regularly visit meetings of Residents Associations and Community Council.
Many of the issues raised are a simple case of misunderstanding and can be resolved relatively easily.
The University has a student conduct policy that is followed when dealing with student misconduct.
Penalties in this policy are always judged on a case-by-case basis.
The University provides guidelines to students on expectations of conduct.
All students agree to abide by the Sponsio Academica (a conduct agreement) when they enrol at the University.
The University has no jurisdiction with regard to private contracts.
Any contract, be it accommodation, hire or other services, taken out privately with a student should include mechanisms to resolve any failure on the student’s part to honour that contract.
When such private contract disputes arise, including damages, the University has no responsibility to intervene.
However, we can provide a mediation service and encourage the student to seek appropriate advice and support.
In cases where the student behaviour at a private residence is causing concern, either through noise or mess, you can call the night-time noise team, Police Scotland or Fife Council.
Serious or repeated cases of antisocial behaviour will be reported to the University.
The students will then be reminded of their responsibilities.
Previous offenders and students causing concern may be asked to meet with the student conduct officer.
Fife Council Environment Reporting Line Phone: +44 (0)3451 550022
Fife Council Safer Communities Team Phone: +44 (0)1529 583412 Community safety covers a range of issues including crime, antisocial behaviour, public perception of crime and safety in homes and on roads.
Fife Council's Night-time Noise Phone: 101 Fife Council's night-time noise team deals with complaints about noise from domestic premises, such as noisy parties, barking dogs or noisy DIY, between the hours of 5.30pm and 3.30am.
The University has key student events at various times throughout the year.
During these times, the University coordinates its response to student conduct with local services such as the Police Scotland, first-aid organisations and volunteers.
Annual events include Orientation Week, Raisin Weekend, May Dip and exam periods.
See the calendar of key university event dates .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/contact/lost-property:
Complete the online form .
You can also contact one of the lost and found property offices listed below.
If there is a match between your report and an item in the system, you will be emailed to arrange collection of your property.
For more information, view the University procedures for managing lost and found property.
You should also report your item as lost to Police Scotland.
To make it easier to find items if you lose them, you can register them in databases available to UK police.
You can also use the University of St Andrews Cycle Registration Scheme .
Contact details for all lost and found property offices.
Town Facilities Support Officer (FSO) Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3985 Email: ssjans@st-andrews.ac.uk
Security control room Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 8999 Email: security@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/contact/social-media:
The University of St Andrews publishes content to various social media platforms.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/fees:
Postgraduate students can find information on fees and funding options in this section.
Your tuition fees will depend on your fee status and the degree you are applying for.
In addition to tuition fees, you will need to cover the cost of your accommodation and everyday living, including food, travel and laundry.
You should also set aside an allowance for books, equipment, field trips, and other fees.
Your offer of a place for postgraduate study does not guarantee financial support.
However, the University of St Andrews offers many postgraduate scholarships each year, and other funding options may be available.
Residence fees
Financial assistance
Fee status
Tuition fees for taught postgraduate programmes vary according to subject.
Fees also depend on your fee status.
Make sure you know what your tuition fees will be in the upcoming academic year.
Scholarships are available to students from all around the world.
See scholarships and other funding options currently available for taught postgraduate programmes.
Postgraduate loans are available for Masters programmes.
These vary depending on the country where you normally live.
Tuition fees for postgraduate research programmes depend on the subject area and your fee status.
There are scholarships and funding streams available for PhD and postgraduate research students.
Find out more about the scholarships you may be eligible for.
Loans for Doctoral study are available and depend on the country where you normally live.
The University of St Andrews will assess your fee status when you make an application to study with us.
Your fee status is determined by your settled status (for example, your nationality or your visa status in the UK) and your country of residence.
This will determine the tuition fee you will pay for your programme.
We make fee status decisions in line with the Scottish fee status legislation .
At postgraduate level, there are two fee status categories :
If we do not have enough information in your application to be able to assess your fee status, we will ask you to complete our fee status questionnaire.
Your application cannot be considered until you have provided us with sufficient information to be able to assess your fee status.
You can find more information in our Fee Status Policy .
If you want to find out more information about fee status regulations and the definitions of fee status terms, you can visit the UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) website.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/why:
St Andrews is a unique place to study and live.
Nestled on the east coast of Scotland, students may find themselves crossing golf-courses on their way to class, or jogging along the beach after dinner.
Not only does the University have a world-class reputation, it also offers a diverse range of social activities, including over 140 student societies and 50 sports clubs.
Historic buildings are juxtaposed against the modern facilities, and the many student traditions truly make studying at St Andrews an unforgettable experience.
From cutting-edge facilities to flexible assessment methods, the University aims to ensure that all students get as much as possible from a St Andrews education.
Discover what makes a degree from St Andrews so sought after.
From career crises to health issues, the University is committed to offering all of our students help, guidance and advice wherever it is needed.
There is a strong support network of advisers based in the University who can help you with any problems you have.
There is a huge variety of societies, sports clubs and recreational activities available in St Andrews.
Find out more about the Students' Association, the Athletic Union and the student traditions which make St Andrews unique.
From concert halls, theatre stages, and sporting fields, to the innovative and cutting-edge laboratories in our research centres, the University offers facilities to help you achieve your potential wherever your interests lie.
St Andrews is a small town nestled on a rocky headland overlooking the North Sea.
As well as three beaches and historic buildings, the town is home to dozens of cafés and boutique shops, with both Dundee and Edinburgh only a short journey away.
The benefits of studying at St Andrews stretch far beyond graduation.
Whether you intend to go on to further study, start your career or have an enterprising mindset, we can help you to realise the future you envisage.
If you're interested in studying in St Andrews, take a look at our available courses along with entry requirements, fee outlines, and other information.
With so many degree routes and research areas, there is bound to be a course for you.
The University of St Andrews offers over 900 undergraduate courses and a large number of postgraduate opportunities.
Take a look at our Prospectus page to download or order the current Prospectus.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/qualifications:
At the University of St Andrews, we offer a number of different qualifications to our postgraduate students.
These are split into taught programmes and research degrees.
Many programmes are available both full time and part time, and the length of study for students studying part time is usually twice that for students studying full time.
Take a look at the different postgraduate qualifications on offer from the University below.
These are all taught courses.
They will feature two semesters of full-time or equivalent part-time study, together with a dissertation of up to 15,000 words or a project, to be completed by the end of the academic year.
The Postgraduate Diploma is a taught course.
It consists of two full-time semesters or the equivalent part-time study.
A student whose performance in a Diploma course is of a sufficiently high standard may transfer to an appropriate Masters (MLitt, MRes, MSc, or MPhil) programme, and the time spent on the Postgraduate Diploma will be credited towards the fulfilment of the Masters regulations.
The Graduate Diploma is offered by the School of Philosophy and consists of two semesters of full-time study or the equivalent of part-time study.
This transitional qualification is for students whose degrees are in a field outside of Philosophy, who wish to progress to advanced study in the subject.
More information is available from the School of Philosophy .
The Postgraduate Certificate is a taught course offered by a range of Schools, including Psychology and Neuroscience, Biology and Management.
The length of the Postgraduate Certificate ranges from one semester to a full calendar year, depending on your choice of course.
A student whose performance in a Postgraduate Certificate course is of a sufficiently high standard may be permitted to progress to a Postgraduate Diploma, if available.
You can find the currently available Postgraduate Certificate courses in our taught programmes list .
The Psychology Conversion MSc offers a conversion route into psychology for students who hold an Honours degree at 2.1 level or higher (or overseas equivalent) in a subject other than psychology.
On completion, students should be equipped with the necessary skills to facilitate research at MPhil or PhD level in the area of psychology or to go on to a clinical training programme.
The MSc (Res) for the Faculty of Science and the MSt (Res) for the Faculty of Arts normally consist of one year supervised research, examined by a 30,000-word maximum research thesis.
This masters by research qualification is suitable for students who have the required theoretical knowledge and are therefore not required to attend taught modules or for those who are considering PhD study but do not wish to commit to a three-year programme.
The Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing is a postgraduate degree offered by the School of English.
It is normally for students wishing to progress to teaching in Creative Writing.
It consists of two distinct years of study, both of which include careers skills modules.
The first year is taught through technical seminars, workshops and individual tuition.
In the second year, students will submit a substantial piece of creative work.
In the Faculty of Arts, an MPhil consists of two semesters of full-time taught courses or the equivalent part-time study.
You will complete assessments followed by a thesis of up to 40,000 words.
This thesis is prepared during the summer and the following year, and submitted by the end of the second academic session.
This degree is a combination of coursework and research.
In the Faculty of Science, a full-time MPhil is normally of two years' duration, though a well-qualified candidate (for example, one possessing a good postgraduate degree in a relevant discipline or a suitable research background) may be admitted directly into the second year.
The University of St Andrews also validates the higher research degrees (MPhil and PhD) in performing arts of the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland.
You can find out more about this collaboration on the collaborative programmes web page.
The PhD is usually a three-year programme (or six years part time) of supervised research, examined by a thesis of 80,000 words maximum.
The thesis is normally submitted by the end of the third year and is a piece of original work describing the research undertaken and its implications for present knowledge.
You can also read more about research at the University.
The usual route for the examination of a PhD degree is a traditional thesis, but the University of St Andrews has adopted an alternative route via the submission of a portfolio of published work for the PhD.
Matriculated students and members of academic staff of at least three years' standing may apply to submit a portfolio of published work for a PhD degree.
The published work must all be in the public domain, and the candidate must have contributed satisfactorily to the conception, execution and writing of the publications.
The intellectual standing and quality of a PhD by portfolio is equal to that of a PhD by thesis.
Examination of a PhD by portfolio is essentially similar to that of a PhD by thesis.
The EngD programme in Computer Science is a four-year Engineering Doctorate involving an industrial partner and incorporating a 32-week taught component and a 170-week individual research component.
Students who have already completed an MSc in Computer Science may be able to proceed directly to the individual research component of the EngD.
The School of Physics and Astronomy offers a four-year EngD degree.
It is a doctoral programme geared towards training the research managers of the future.
It involves a challenging and original research project undertaken as a partnership between industry and academia.
For further details, please contact the School of Physics and Astronomy .
The Doctorate in Medicine (MD) is offered to candidates who already hold a recognised medical qualification.
Candidates must have some connection with St Andrews as either graduates in Medicine or Medical Science, or as members of academic staff.
There are two routes to the award of the MD degree for qualified candidates:
Read more about the University’s other postgraduate study routes, including online and collaborative programmes .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/widening-access:
We are firmly committed to nurturing an inclusive and diverse academic community regardless of an individual's background, and recognise the challenges that can prevent individuals from accessing higher education, particularly at the postgraduate level.
Our dedication to access and widening participation is at the heart of our University Strategy .
We are determined to empower students from underrepresented and disadvantaged backgrounds to further their education, by pursuing postgraduate study options.
Through a range of initiatives, scholarships, and support services, we work tirelessly to ensure that postgraduate study at St Andrews is within reach for all who have the ambition and determination to succeed.
Whether you are a recent graduate, a mature student, or someone looking to advance or change your career, we are here to support you on your journey.
Embarking on a journey towards postgraduate study is an exciting and transformative step and we want to ensure you have the guidance you need to navigate the application process confidently.
For applicants from a widening participation background, the University of St Andrews offers an automatic application fee waiver as part of our commitment to ensuring that financial barriers do not hinder access to postgraduate study.
This initiative is designed to make the application process more accessible and equitable , allowing talented individuals from underrepresented and disadvantaged backgrounds to pursue their academic ambitions without the burden of additional costs.
By waiving the application fee, we aim to encourage and support a diverse range of applicants in taking the next step towards their educational goals.
We encourage all prospective students to take advantage of our visiting day options, both online and in person.
These events offer a valuable opportunity to explore the University of St Andrews, gain a deeper understanding of our programmes, and experience the vibrant community that awaits you.
Whether you choose to attend in person or virtually, visiting days provide insight into student life, the academic environment, and the support available to you.
Engaging with our staff and current students during these events can help you make an informed decision about your postgraduate studies and feel confident about your next steps.
We understand that financial support is often key to deciding to pursue postgraduate study options.
We invite prospective students to explore the scholarship options available at the University of St Andrews, including the prestigious St Leonard’s Masters Scholarship.
This scholarship is specifically designed to support talented individuals pursuing postgraduate study by providing financial assistance that can ease the burden of tuition fees and living costs.
By researching and applying for scholarships like the St Leonard’s Masters Scholarship, you can make your academic journey more accessible and focus on achieving your goals without financial stress.
Be sure to review the various funding opportunities we offer and consider how these can enhance your experience and support your success at St Andrews.
Applying for postgraduate study can be daunting, but remember that support is available.
Reach out to our widening participation team who can provide guidance specific to your situation.
At St Andrews, we offer tailored advice and support to help you through the application process.
Book a 1 to 1 call with one of our Admissions team – we’re here to help.
Continue on your journey to a postgraduate degree with St Andrews.
Explore our programmes or Ask Admissions to discover what support might be available to you.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/graduate-school/about:
Discover your subject from a truly interdisciplinary perspective with the Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies.
Graduate School degrees use ideas from different disciplines to give students a more rounded understanding of their subject.
Interdisciplinary learning is at the heart of the Graduate School.
Core modules on Graduate School degrees use themed seminars led by subject experts from across the University.
Students consider their subject from different disciplinary perspectives, developing an interdisciplinary understanding.
This approach also enables students to show skills such as flexibility and creativity.
Optional modules allow students to further develop the interdisciplinary character of their studies.
In the end of degree project students explore a topic in depth.
The project can also be interdisciplinary in scope and may have an applied character.
On most degrees, students have a choice in how to present the project.
This might be as a dissertation or in more applied format - such as a policy report or multi-media portfolio.
Graduate School Masters degrees help students develop advanced subject knowledge and research skills.
Students also develop skills in:
Core modules have professional skills development integrated in to the curriculum.
The Graduate School is a vibrant, stimulating postgraduate community.
Graduate School events bring students together and help foster interdisciplinary identity.
Students make social and intellectual connections within and across their Masters degree groups.
The University postgraduate community, St Leonard’s Postgraduate College , welcomes Graduate School students.
St Leonard's Postgraduate College hosts networking and training events for all postgraduates.
Through these Graduate School students can make connections with postgraduates from other schools.
St Leonard’s Postgraduate College works closely with the Postgraduate Society.
The Postgraduate Society is one of the Students’ Association's most active societies.
All Masters students are welcome into the Postgraduate Society.
The Postgraduate Society organises events for postgraduates.
These include beach bonfires, day trips around Scotland, pub nights, and graduation balls.
The Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies welcomed its first students in 2018.
The Graduate School now welcomes students from around the world.
In 2020 more than 90 students joined Graduate School MSc and MLitt degrees.
Since 2021, the Graduate School has been based in the Old Burgh School .
The Old Burgh School has office, teaching, and study space for the Graduate School.
It is also home to the University’s postgraduate study centre.
The Graduate School Meeting Room situated at the Old Burgh School is available to be booked by staff and postgraduate students Monday-Friday between 9am-6pm.
The room is equipped with a projector and screen.
There is kitchen facilities directly adjacent.
Staff can book directly via our online room booking system .
For student room bookings, please email gradschool@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Priority will be given to bookings related to Graduate School or Postgraduate St Leonards College activities.
Please note, this room should not be booked by students as an additional study space.
Email: gradschool@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2067
Graduate School on X Graduate School Instagram
Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies University of St Andrews The Old Burgh School Abbey Walk St Andrews KY16 9LB

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/online/your-st-andrews:
Arrange a call with Admissions
With exceptional support from the University’s Centre for Educational Enhancement and Development , you can improve your academic skills and develop on your chosen course.
Moving your career forward and planning your next steps can be really exciting.
We are here to offer you expert guidance, to inspire you, to empower you to make the most of new opportunities.
We offer one-to-one appointments, including interview coaching and advice on managing your professional profile.
We aim to help you to understand and articulate your skills, so that you can develop a meaningful career, whatever your ambitions.
The St Andrews Careers Centre can assist you to:
Learn more about our careers support
One thing that our students have in common, no matter where they are or where they are from, is that they are extraordinary individuals.
Our diverse student life and community reflects that.
As a St Andrews student, you will be part of our vibrant student community.
You can either connect online or, if you are ever in St Andrews, join us in-person.
Find out about the student experience
Our alumni network spans the globe.
Our alumni stay connected with St Andrews and each other through many channels.
From regional alumni clubs to our networking and e-mentoring platform, Saint Connect, there are lots of ways to stay active in our community.
Discover the benefits of alumni life
Meet our staff, learn more, and ask questions about how our courses can work for you.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/online/information-sessions:
If none of these dates are suitable for you, or you don't see an information session listed for the course you are interested in, please book a call with the Admissions team .
The information collected in this form will be held and used only in the ways outlined in the University's data collection statement.
Can't see the form?
If the registration form does not show you may need to disable your ad blocker and refresh this page.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/online/register-pg-online:
For more information about our online postgraduate study options at St Andrews, please register your details using the form below.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/online/short-courses/register:
For more information about short courses at St Andrews, or to ask a question, please register your details using the form below.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/contact:
University of St Andrews St Katharine's West The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AX
Ask Admissions
Email: myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk
Email: schools.access@st-andrews.ac.uk
Email: studyabroad@st-andrews.ac.uk
Email: ifp@st-andrews.ac.uk
Email: pgt.application@st-andrews.ac.uk
Email: pgr.application@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/fee-status:
At undergraduate level , there are four fee status categories:
At postgraduate level , there are two fee status categories:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees:
In addition to tuition fees, you will also be expected to cover the cost of your own accommodation and subsistence, including food, travel and laundry.
The University of St Andrews offers a number of scholarships and bursaries to undergraduate students each year, and there may be other funding options available .
ScotGEM applicants should refer to the fees and funding information for that course.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/my-application:
My application allows you to track the progress of an application you have already submitted to St Andrews.
You can also apply for scholarships, update your details or submit any further requested information.
Log in
If you wish to start a new application to St Andrews, please select the relevant option.
I am applying for:
If you have applied for a course but are waiting to hear a decision, you can apply for scholarships by following these steps:
If you have any problems or need help applying for scholarships, please email scholarshipsandfunding@st-andrews.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/policy/offers:
Once you have accepted your offer to study at St Andrews, you enter into a contractual agreement with the University.
This agreement includes:
The University aims to ensure that students are aware of the main provisions of the agreement, and this page offers further information on key aspects of your offer.
All the information contained on this page can be found in the further particulars of offers .
Our approach to learning and teaching is a little like the University itself: a mix of very traditional and very new.
In every subject, we take care to cover all the bases, on the one hand familiarising our students with the knowledge and theories that are essential to understanding the discipline; and on the other, giving you a chance wherever possible to develop practical uses for the expertise you acquire.
From this starting-point, we expect our students increasingly to design their own studies, by selecting options and undertaking research-based activities that they devise by themselves, with support from academic staff.
All teaching and learning is organised through one of the University’s Schools, which have a director of teaching who oversees the delivery and development of teaching and learning.
These all work with the coordinators of individual modules and with programme or year coordinators (where appropriate) to ensure that teaching and learning provision is carefully planned and delivered, and that new developments and changes are channelled for approval to the appropriate committees.
Directors of teaching, programme, year and module coordinators are all established members of academic staff – such as teaching fellows, professors and lecturers.
Students put together their programme of studies by selecting a combination of compulsory and optional modules from our module catalogue.
The catalogue describes each module and gives information about the learning, teaching and assessment methods used.
We know that every student has a slightly different way of learning so, while we make use of some tried-and-tested methods that we believe should be part of any good university education, we also have a wide variety of complementary approaches that will enrich your experience and ensure there is an approach that suits.
Information about the University’s curriculum (modules and degree programmes) can be found in several places on the University’s website depending on the level of detail you are looking for.
The module catalogue is the primary sources of information if you want to learn about the modules that may be available to you in the academic year and the combination of modules that are required to progress from year to year on your chosen degree programme.
In the module catalogue, you will find information about all the modules that are available in the current academic year.
These modules are published in numerical order by the administering academic School.
The modules are divided between 1000 and 2000 level modules (sub-Honours) and Honours level modules for undergraduate programmes.
There may be constraints on a module such as a pre-requisite that will restrict the actual modules available to you depending on the degree programme you are studying.
Postgraduate module information is published by programme for postgraduate taught programmes.
The module catalogue is updated and published online each year and is available as a PDF file.
Hard copies are available for consultation in the University Library.
It may be necessary to update the module catalogue after it is published, and these updates are published on the same web page at the very top of the catalogue listings under the heading “Stop Press”.
The University offers a wide variety of degree programmes in many different academic subject areas.
The list of currently available undergraduate degree programmes that you may study are listed in the module catalogue .
Each degree programme requires certain combinations of modules to be taken in each academic year of study for you to progress from year to year on your way to your final examinations and ultimately graduation.
These requirements are published in a similar way to the modules, that is, under each academic School they are listed in alphabetical order by degree type (single Honours, joint Honours, major and minor, triple) and academic subject.
The University’s advising process will help ensure that you are on track to meet the requirements that are necessary to finish your degree programme.
You can review these two parts of the catalogue manually online or using one of the printed copies of the catalogue that are available in the Library.
Postgraduate degree programmes are listed within the postgraduate module catalogue .
The University Senate oversees the awarding of degrees to students upon successful completion of a programme of study and the regulations that govern the requirements for success are laid out in the undergraduate Senate Regulations and postgraduate Senate Regulations .
You can also access these regulations as printed copies in the University Library.
The regulations are published annually in advance of the beginning of the academic year.
Changes to the Senate Regulations may be necessary from time to time, but these are uncommon and are always published online as a PDF titled “Summary of changes”.
In most cases, you are unlikely to need to refer to the Senate Regulations as your Advisers of Studies and the University’s advising system will guide you in relation to your approved pathway of study.
The main aims of the curriculum at the University of St Andrews are to foster flexible, independent thinkers who have both subject-related and generic skills in readiness for work or further study.
The curriculum portfolio is developed on research-led teaching, guided by cutting-edge researchers and delivered by outstanding teachers from around the world.
Embedded in the core curriculum are principles of research methodology, ethics and responsibility as well as insight into global and cultural issues.
The University teaches not only skills and flexible thinking, but a belief in the ability to use these beyond graduation.
The University provides an exceptional breadth and opportunity of choice, with a large range of subjects that can lead to joint degrees – you will be encouraged to try new disciplines while following your own established academic interests.
The University will ensure that relevant information and advice is available when students are deciding to make such choices: to complement the key information contained in the module catalogue, each student has a dedicated Advisor of Studies who is available for consultation in a process overseen by Pro Deans who can also provide expert guidance to students.
In order to achieve this, and to ensure that its teaching incorporates the research and related interests of its staff, the University reviews its curriculum portfolio on a regular basis including programmes and modules.
Changes are made with due consideration to minimising impact, safeguarding academic standards and assuring the quality of the learning experience.
These may include any of the following:
As part of any such changes the University will:
Most subjects use lectures, especially in the first two years, referred to as sub-honours.
Students can use their first two years to discover their own specific strengths before finalising their degree intentions at Honours level.
Lectures are a good way to ensure everyone in the class receives the same key information, and they help students develop note-taking and summarising skills.
The material covered in lectures is generally followed up in smaller seminar groups (around 15 to 20 students) or tutorials (around 5 to 10 students), where there might be a structured open discussion, a general debate, a presentation by students, or a series of questions, exercises or examples to be worked through with the tutor.
Owing to the relatively small undergraduate student body in comparison to some universities, St Andrews is in the enviable position of offering small group teaching in many subjects.
In addition to lectures and seminars or tutorials, some subjects require laboratory sessions.
These take place in custom-designed labs, where students carry out practical tasks, following a programme of work devised by their lecturers and directed by experts during the session.
Labs allow you to put theoretical knowledge into practice, perfect your skills and develop into competent, well-trained and highly-skilled specialists.
Lab sessions are not just for science: Economics, Modern Languages and others use them too.
Some academic Schools also offer ‘surgery’ hours, where students can drop in to speak with a tutor about a particular module.
Our welcoming environment and relatively small size allow students to approach individual tutors for assistance in this way or via email.
Many subjects include compulsory or optional fieldwork from an early stage.
Students may investigate a site of particular scientific, historical, artistic or cultural interest; or they may carry out experiments or surveys by observing or interviewing the occupants of a particular location.
Not all learning takes place in the physical presence of the tutor, of course.
We also arrange student-led tutorials (real or virtual) in which students drive the discussion.
And although we are an ancient university, our state-of-the-art facilities support learning through blogs, chat-rooms, podcasts, project forums, wikis and other forms of collaborative and independent learning.
Extracurricular lectures and seminars in every School are open to students.
Some student societies are linked to academic Departments and are an excellent way to expand understanding and appreciation of the subject.
Societies organise talks, social events and other informal activities to support learning.
Internships and work experience are available in some areas as part of the degree programme, whether simulated or real: Medicine, for example, places emphasis on simulated doctor-patient consultations, while teaching abroad placements are routinely available in Modern Languages with Integrated Year Abroad programmes.
Competitive extracurricular summer research internships, supported by the University, are available in all subjects to supplement scheduled learning and teaching.
In the final year, a flagship module, distinctive to St Andrews, allows selected students to obtain credits for teaching their subject of study in local schools, under the joint supervision of a teacher and a university academic.
The Careers Centre supports students arranging their own vacation internships for work experience.
Further personal and professional development opportunities are available, for example through the St Andrews Award, administered by the Careers Centre; and the Certificate in Professional Skills run by the Centre for Academic, Professional and Organisational Development.
As students progress through their programme, they are expected to undertake work in groups or pairs.
This is a good way of sharing work in order to learn more about the subject; but learning to be part of a team is also a key skill for employment and life in a community.
At the same time, one of our chief aims at St Andrews is to enable students to become increasingly self-reliant, not only in the intellectual questions they ask and answers they give, but also in the way they manage their time, organise their work and achieve the high standards of professionalism prized by employers.
Students are therefore expected to conduct much of their work alone, and the Honours project or dissertation in particular is the culmination of independent thinking and personal development: in this, a student selects a topic, defines a question, conducts the research necessary to explore it thoroughly and according to the norms of their discipline, and writes up the results of their enquiries.
All this is done with readily available support and guidance from academic staff – but the burden of work, and the ultimate achievement, is entirely the student’s own.
Thus, we support a gradual departure from a typical school or college environment where structures and schedules prevail, to a more scholarly approach where interaction is focused on support for autonomous learning, exchanging ideas and stimulating thinking.
Like other universities, we expect full-time students to put in a full week’s work on their studies, split between scheduled classes and private study.
As a guide, each credit earned should be the result of about 10 hours’ work, so a full year’s credit load (120 credits) represents 1,200 hours of concentration and hard work.
To get the most out of your studies, you need to prepare carefully for every class you attend, and to follow it up afterwards, whatever its nature.
You may be asked to look carefully at specific material; in addition, you should independently use learning resources like the Library to ‘read around’ the subject, fill gaps in your knowledge and understanding, check the reliability of information you have discovered and feel confident that you have grasped what is being taught.
To help in this, further module information is available, clearly showing the programme of study and assessment involved.
Bibliographies of extra reading are provided at the start; further recommendations may be given during class, depending on what comes up.
Many tutors post material on the web; others may conduct short ‘refresher’ tests during the class itself to check that everyone has reached the necessary level of understanding.
Some subjects require a high percentage of scheduled learning hours, for example because a student can only make progress by attending a laboratory or carrying out supervised fieldwork.
In other subject areas, a large amount of individual reading or practice is the only way to ensure adequate learning.
In both cases, students must quickly develop time management skills to enable efficient use of the full-time study week.
See the fee setting page for more information.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/access:
Going to university is a highly rewarding experience and one that everyone should have the opportunity to do.
St Andrews has a diverse and vibrant student community, and students come from a range of backgrounds having achieved a variety of qualifications.
Whether you are a school leaver or a potential mature student, the Access team can ensure you have the right information to make an informed choice about studying here.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/couples-families:
There are various options for accommodation if you are coming to St Andrews with your partner or family.
Options may be University owned, University managed, or in the private sector.
The University has a small selection of accommodation in halls of residences for couples.
Students with families can either apply for University-managed properties or rent private accommodation .
One of the attractions of St Andrews is that it is a small town, but that means there is a limit to the amount of accommodation available.
You should apply for accommodation as soon as you accept an offer to study at the University of St Andrews.
University-owned accommodation offers apartments suitable for couples.
David Russell and Fife Park have self-contained studio apartments with a:
Accommodation fees include:
Facilities include:
The University manages several properties in St Andrews suitable for couples or families.
These properties vary from self-contained apartments with one bedroom to houses with three bedrooms.
Due to the demand for family accommodation, the University will not offer accommodation which is larger than necessary, for example, offering a two-bedroom property to a couple.
All managed properties have either gas or electric central heating.
Leases for managed properties are for a fixed period and normally run from either June or early September until early June or the end of August the following year.
Rent for University-managed accommodation excludes services such as gas, electricity, telephone, internet and council tax if applicable.
Rent prices are reviewed every year.
There are a number of property agents in St Andrews and they maintain their own waiting lists.
Find out more about private accommodation .
There are long waiting lists for Government-owned public housing, and the local housing authority cannot normally help students with housing.
You are unlikely to be housed by the local authority if you leave your current accommodation, whether in the UK or overseas, without first arranging secure accommodation in the St Andrews area.
You could face homelessness as a result.
To apply for accommodation through the University, register and apply through the online system , and also complete the online form to tell us more about the accommodation you require.
Applications through the online system and form for the 2025-2026 academic year opened from 01 March 2025.
Entrant undergraduates are not guaranteed an offer of couple or family accommodation.
Priority is given to applicants not already based in the St Andrews area and who are not in a position to look for alternative private sector accommodation.
Student Accommodation Services

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation/private:
Many students look for private accommodation in St Andrews, either sharing with other students or by themselves.
You can use Studentpad , the University’s student accommodation search engine, to help you find student houses, apartments and lodgings in or near the St Andrews area.
The website lists properties that are available to let directly from the landlords themselves and also includes additional information on how to rent and where to get information.
Properties on Studentpad are required to provide the University with copies of HMO licences, gas safety certificates, and landlord registration to ensure they meet minimum standards.
There is a Facebook group Get a room, St Andrews and the Students' Association also has useful private accommodation web pages including information on local letting agents as well as a guide on how to rent .
If you are a property owner find out about the University's direct leasing scheme .
If you are not covered by the University accommodation guarantee , you may wish to consider accommodation with one of the private providers.
This accommodation is not operated by the University and you will be signing a legally binding agreement with a private company.
The University is not responsible for the contents of the links below and has not carried out any checks on these accommodation providers.
There are several estate agents in St Andrews who let their properties out to students.
Many of the estate agents release a list of all the available student properties for the upcoming year in late January or early February.
Contact the estate agents directly:
When looking for private property, location is one thing to consider.
Not all students live in St Andrews.
Some students prefer a more rural location, cheaper accommodation outside of the town, or city living in Dundee.
Below is a list of the commuting distances of the towns and villages close to St Andrews:
When viewing a potential property, you should consider things like the state of the furnishings, whether there are enough bathrooms and toilets for the house, and if the bedrooms are equally sized or not.
You may want to speak to the current tenant (if you can) as they will be able to provide an picture of what it is like to live there (for example, is it cheap to heat, what the neighbours are like, and so on).
You should also ask the following questions:
If you plan to commute into the University or live out of town, there is support for commuter students to help you settle in.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/support/halls-life-wardennial-team:
Each undergraduate hall of residence has a dedicated live-in team committed to providing a positive and supportive residential experience.
Most Halls Life team members are postgraduate students at the University.
The team is made up of a Halls Life Coordinator, who acts as Warden, a group of Assistant Wardens, and, in some of the larger halls, a Deputy Warden.
Halls Life organises events and social activities, offers drop-in sessions, and provides wellbeing support.
Working closely with residents, the student-led hall committee, and the residential services and catering teams, the Halls life team fosters a strong hall identity and sense of community, helping you make the most of your university experience.
Together, they ensure that a member of staff is available 24/7 in each hall.
When you arrive, your Halls Life team will introduce themselves and provide you with valuable information about living in halls, the events they run, and how to contact them.
Agnes Blackadder and Powell halls are large accommodation blocks on the North Haugh.
Powell is used for postgraduate accommodation and Agnes Blackadder for undergraduate.
Andrew Melville Hall is known for its ship-like appearance.
It is a catered hall on the North Haugh.
Understand the role of the assistant warden, and how University staff and PhD students can apply to become one.
DRA is a modern complex completed in 2004.
Fife Park offers modern accommodation completed in 2015.
They are near the Sports Centre on the North Haugh.
John Burnet Hall is between the town centre and the North Haugh.
It is a short distance from both science and arts buildings, golf courses and the sea.
McIntosh Hall was built as the Chattan hotel and became part of the University in 1921.
It stretches the full length of Abbotsford Crescent and is near the Students' Union and the town's main shopping area.
St Regulus Hall was built in 1880s as a hotel, and was extended in the 1950s after being acquired by the University.
It is beside St Mary’s Quadrangle, and several other arts buildings.
St Salvator's Hall is in the centre of St Andrews and boasts an oak-panelled dining room, featuring a series of stained glass-stained-glass windows commemorating founders and benefactors of the University.
Gannochy House is a more modern annexe.
University Hall is next to the Sports Centre, and is a short walk from the science buildings on the North Haugh.
It was originally built in 1896 as an all-female residence.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/support/night-bus:
Learn about night bus options for staff and students
All staff and students of the University of St Andrews can use the free University night bus.
You must show your staff or student ID card to the driver.
The St Andrews night bus goes from the main University Library around St Andrews, returning to the main Library.
Locations and pick up times are listed below.
The last Library time is drop off only.
Passengers who behave antisocially may be refused entry to the bus and will be referred by the driver to the University’s Security and Response team.
You cannot take food or drink on the bus.
Please be aware that a bus may have to be cancelled at short notice.
Please be aware, due to unforeseen circumstances out with the driver's control, timings and route may be affected.
For questions about the University night buses, please complete this online form to contact the Advice and Support Centre (ASC).
Local bus company, Stagecoach, provides a late evening service between Dundee and St Andrews during the week that University students and staff can use for free by showing a University ID card.
The subsidised service runs from Monday to Thursday during term time.
Stagecoach's existing late services will continue on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
The St Andrews town bus will run until Friday 23 May 2025, except during vacation week, from Saturday 1 March to Sunday 9 March 2025.
The speed limit in some St Andrews streets has been changed from 30mph to 20mph, which has required changes to the St Andrews town bus timetable to allow for the extra time needed between stops, however, a continuous shuttle will still be provided throughout the evenings.
The timetable below has been updated accordingly.
The number of runs has been reduced from 9 to 8 and the service will start 15 minutes later at 10.15pm.
The new timetable starts at 10.15pm on Wednesday 26 February 2025.
The 99 bus is available free to staff and students from Monday to Thursday during term-time until Thursday 22 May 2025 .
Only the services listed on the downloadable timetable under 'USTA' are complimentary for staff and students with University ID cards.
Download PDF timetable

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/guides/accommodation-guarantee:
Updated on: 28 February 2025
The University of St Andrews guarantees accommodation to all UK, EU and overseas first-year undergraduate students when they:
In years of very high demand, students who live within a reasonable commuting distance of the University will not be offered accommodation until a room becomes available.
This may be after the start of the semester.
The University also guarantees accommodation to the following students, provided they apply within the required timescales:
Guaranteed accommodation for the duration of their course.
Where care-experienced and estranged students apply for accommodation which does not include the vacation periods (Christmas and Summer) they should apply for vacation accommodation and will be guaranteed a place.
It is unlikely that students will be able to stay in the same room for the duration of their course.
Guaranteed accommodation for the 2 years they are based in St Andrews.
Guaranteed term-time University accommodation only, for the full duration of their studies, provided they are living in University accommodation when they apply.
Accommodation does not include vacation periods or family accommodation.
Programmes include:
This includes catered and self-catered accommodation in halls of residence as well as rooms in shared apartments or houses in St Andrews, Fife and Dundee.
The majority of the accommodation is available for single occupancy only.
Where family accommodation is available it is not included in any of the accommodation guarantees.
A significant number of our postgraduate students stay in private accommodation .
Accommodation is guaranteed for postgraduate taught students with an overseas fee status .
To be eligible for the guarantee you must:
The guarantee may include accommodation in St Andrews, Leuchars and Dundee.
Your accommodation contract may be terminated if you haven't met your offer conditions by 31 July 2025.
Please contact the Admissions team if you think you won't meet your conditions in time.
While postgraduate taught students with a home fee status and all postgraduate research students are not guaranteed accommodation, the University expects to be able to offer accommodation to many of them.
After receiving your accommodation application, we will contact you every month to update you on the current accommodation availability and give you advice on securing private accommodation , where a significant number of University postgraduate students live.
Students also have guaranteed accommodation when they:
After accepting your University offer, you will be sent an offer of accommodation and will have 7 days to accept or decline the offer.
Your accommodation contract may be terminated if you haven't met your offer conditions by 31 July 2025 .
Some other scholarships include an accommodation guarantee.
See the scholarships webpage for full details and conditions.
University accommodation is guaranteed for International Foundation students who:
University accommodation is guaranteed for students who are coming to the University alone and are studying full time on the following summer schools:
Summer school students do not have to apply for University accommodation.
University staff arrange this for them.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/flexible:
The University of St Andrews operates on a modular degree system by which degrees are obtained through the accumulation of credits.
The University's modular degree system makes undergraduate study here very flexible, and our module requirements are the same whether you are studying full time or part time.
A module is a self-contained unit of teaching, learning and assessment which is worth a fixed amount of credit.
Most modules run for just one semester, and every module passed will gain you a set number of credits that will count towards your degree.
To gain an Honours degree, you will need to obtain 480 credits; to gain a General degree, you will need 360 credits.
Full-time students will usually take 120 credits' worth of modules per year, which is typically 60 credits per semester.
Part-time students will study half this number of credits per year.
You will be required to take a number of specified modules to gain a specialised Honours degree, but students in the Faculties of Arts, Divinity and Science will have opportunities during their study to take subjects outside of their own Faculty.
There are, however, sometimes restrictions for very popular subjects because priority is always given to students already within that Faculty.
Students who are not in the Faculty of Medicine will be unable to study any element of the Medicine programme.
Students who are in the Faculty of Medicine are unable to take modules from outside of the Medicine programme.
>> CLARE: The University degree at St Andrews reflects the Scottish degree system in that students coming into first and second year can take subjects outside their intended degree specialisation.
>> Stephen: The ability to change subject choices and to put together combinations allows students really to put together quite an individual programme of study.
>> MARKUS: It really helped me to just explore different things.
>> CLARE: Our students get to widen their education at first and second year and then specialise in their degree subjects in their honours years.
>> AABIYAH: One of the best things about studying in St Andrews is the small class sizes.
So you really get to know everyone really well.
Everyone is so friendly and so understanding.
>> STEPHEN: It's important to think of the St Andrews education as something which teaches students to become experts in a subject, but also it teaches lots of really important transferable skills which are vital for employability.
>> JUDITH: We hand pick our students.
We pick the students that we think will flourish here.
And we pick few enough students that we can make sure that they do flourish here when they come.
If you take a break from your programme of study, you can keep the credits you have already earned and add to them at a later date, within a fixed length of time.
In addition, the Scottish Credit Accumulation Transfer Scheme (ScotCATS) will allow you to carry your credits on to other institutions if you choose to continue your studies elsewhere.
All modules in the module catalogue have an accreditation in the ECTS.
The University operates on an annual load of 120 credits, while the ECTS operates on one of 60 credits.
For this reason, credits transferred to other institutions within the ECTS will be worth precisely half the number of credits shown for each module within the University of St Andrews.
As the grade for each module will then be calculated according to ECTS procedures, it may not be the same grade awarded for the module by the University.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/personal-statement:
Your personal statement provides you with an invaluable opportunity to tell us about your reasons for applying to study your chosen subject or subjects.
Most of the students who apply to the University of St Andrews will be well qualified and decisions on who will receive offers are often determined by the quality of the personal statement.
In short, the personal statement is an important part of your application and is an opportunity to make your application shine.
At St Andrews, we suggest that at least two thirds of your personal statement is focused on the subject area or areas you are applying to.
If you are applying for a joint honours or triple honours degree, it is important to discuss all subjects equally.
We recommend that the rest of your personal statement tells us about any other relevant information, including non-academic extra-curricular activities such as sport, music, the arts, leadership roles or community work.
In summary, your personal statement gives us a picture of you: someone who is interested in the subject area or areas you are applying to and who has the motivation and potential to do well in a university environment.
This is also an opportunity for you to demonstrate your ability to research and bring together information, which are important skills required for university-level study.
We take a holistic approach and will consider your whole application carefully, including any personal circumstances that may have impacted your education.
It’s a good idea to discuss this with your referee so they can be sure to include all relevant information in their reference, including the context in which your qualifications have been or will be achieved.
By including this information, we can ensure that we take this into account when reviewing your application.
You can learn more about contextual admissions in the University's admissions policy .
If you are applying to study Medicine at the University of St Andrews, please see further guidance on the Medicine personal statement and reference .
If you are appylying to study the BA (International Honours) programme, our joint degee with William & Mary, read more about the BA (International Honours) personal statement .
As part of your UCAS application, you must complete a personal statement which is split into three specific questions.
Remember that each of your UCAS choices sees the same personal statement.
As such, you should avoid mentioning that you are applying to any specific university.
You should also avoid naming the course you are applying to if this is not the same course at each of your choices.
The questions you will be asked when completing your UCAS application and our guidance to approaching these is below.
These questions ask for different but interrelated pieces of information; please ensure that you are not repeating yourself in each section and use the available space carefully.
This is your opportunity to speak directly to the people making the decision on your application – make each word count!
This is your first chance to tell us about your passion for your chosen subject(s).
This section should be academically focused, and we recommend that you think about the following:
In answering question 1 you should show us that you have a genuine interest and motivation to study your chosen subject(s).
We want to see evidence of your passion and commitment, simply stating that you like a subject is not enough.
When writing, think about why what you are saying is relevant and keep linking your points back to the subject(s) you are applying for.
Answering this question should complement question 1 but not repeat the same information.
Think about the skills and knowledge you have gained in your previous and current studies, and how they apply to the subject(s) you are applying for.
To help you get started, you may want to consider:
We will see the subjects you have studied and are currently studying, as well as your achieved or predicted grades in your application, so please do not list these in your personal statement as well.
This wastes valuable space within your limited character-count.
We are looking for insight on how you will perform as a student in your chosen subject(s).
We want to be sure that you understand the knowledge, skills and initiative required to undertake this further study.
Remember, keep this information relevant to the subject you are applying to.
In this final question, you have the chance to tell us about anything else you have done outside of your school or college curriculum which is relevant to your chosen subject(s).
It can be tempting to list everything you have done, but it is preferable to focus on one or two activities which give you strong discussion points.
Think about the knowledge and skills you have gained from experiences like:
Answering this question will provide us with more information about you as a person.
You have the chance to demonstrate how the skills you have gained outside of the classroom transfer into your studies.
Once you have answered all three questions, your personal statement should present us with an authentic picture of you, your experiences and why you want to study your chosen subject(s).
Before you start writing, you may wish to review the following guidance from UCAS:
Your personal statement (also known as an interest essay) should demonstrate your passion and commitment to the subject area you are applying for.
Unlike the UCAS personal statement which is seen by all the universities applied to through UCAS, the personal statement in the Common and Direct Application forms is only seen by our admissions officers.
This means the personal statement can and should be totally focused on why you want to study your chosen course and why you want to study this at the University of St Andrews specifically.
When writing your personal statement you should describe your interest in your selected course at St Andrews and consider the following questions:
Give yourself plenty of time to draft and re-write your statement, paying attention to the structure to ensure it is clear and flows well.
Once you have your starting points, you can think about how to format your thoughts, and before you know it, your personal statement will start to take shape!
You may wish to consider the following points and make brief notes which will help you to finalise your personal statement later.
It may help to treat the personal statement like an interview with the admissions officers and think about what you want them to know as they read your application.
Sometimes speaking out loud to others can help you decide on the key things to include, so you may want to make an appointment with a teacher or someone else who knows you well to discuss this.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/ucas:
Most applicants for first-year entry to the University of St Andrews will apply to other universities as well as the University of St Andrews via a single online Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) application.
Students from the UK, EU and other overseas countries and territories can all apply through the online UCAS application process.
If you wish to apply to the University via UCAS, this checklist will help you through the application process.
STA is the UCAS name of the University of St Andrews and our UCAS number code is S36.
UCAS course codes can be found in the course search section.
After submitting your application, if you are contacted by us regarding SAT, ACT or AP test scores, unofficial score reports are accepted.
The final dates for the receipt of applications to St Andrews to qualify for full and equal consideration are:
While we encourage early applications, we will continue to consider international applications where places remain available after this date.
Applications received after the equal consideration deadline will be assessed based on subject and course availability.
Applications should be made online using the UCAS website , where full information on the application procedure will be found.
An application fee is payable to UCAS when you submit your completed application.
For information on when you should expect a response to your application, as well as the different kinds of offers the University extends, take a look at our after you apply page .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/common:
The University of St Andrews accepts applications through the Common Application, provided that:
If you fulfil these criteria, you may apply through the Common Application website .
Please note: you can apply for our BA International Honours programmes through the Common Application, even if you have applied for the maximum number of programmes allowed through UCAS .
If you wish to apply to the University via the Common Application, this checklist will help you through the application process.
Students who apply to the University of St Andrews through the Common Application can use UCAS to apply to other universities.
Students should only apply to St Andrews using one application route, for example, using UCAS and Common Application to apply to St Andrews at the same time is not allowed.
You cannot apply for our Medicine programmes using the Common Application.
If this is the subject you wish to study, please refer to the UCAS or direct application information.
Our Common Application ID number is 2880.
Answers to many questions about the Common Application process can be found in the Applicant Solutions Centre .
The final date for the receipt of undergraduate applications to St Andrews to qualify for full and equal consideration is 6pm (GMT) on Wednesday 14 January 2026 .
Medicine programmes
If this is the subject you wish to study, please refer to the UCAS or Direct Application information, which includes a specific deadline to apply for Medicine.
Applying for the BA (International Honours)
The deadline to apply to the BA (International Honours) programme is Friday 1 May 2026 .
As there is limited availability on this programme, applications will close when the programme is full.
We strongly encourage applicants to apply early.
All applications through the Common Application should be submitted via the Common Application website.
Further information on this process can be found in the Common Application Applicant Solutions Centre .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/direct:
The University of St Andrews accepts direct applications from a small number of students each year.
You should only submit a direct application if:
You are not submitting a total of more than five applications to UK universities.
A Direct application to St Andrews and UCAS applications to other universities in the UK can be made simultaneously, but all applications submitted via Direct application are counted as part of your five.
You are liable to pay tuition fees at the overseas rate.
You can find out more about your fee status on the tuition fees page.
Applicants for the BA International Honours joint degree with William & Mary can apply through either our direct application or through the Common Application , even if they have applied for other programmes through UCAS.
In order for us to begin processing your application, payment of an application fee of £50 (pounds sterling) is required.
You will need to complete the payment process before you submit your application.
Details on how to pay can be found on the University's online shop .
If you wish to submit a direct application to the University, this checklist will help you through the application process.
Students who apply to the University of St Andrews through the direct application method must not submit an additional application to St Andrews through UCAS or the Common Application.
However, applicants for the BA (International Honours) joint degree with William & Mary can apply through our direct application for this programme even if they have applied for other programmes through UCAS.
Your direct application must include:
The final date for the receipt of applications to St Andrews to qualify for full and equal consideration is:
To begin the application process you will need to select the Faculty within which you wish to study.
There are four Faculties at the University of St Andrews, Arts, Science, Divinity and Medicine.
In addition, you should also read the information on the degree programmes available at St Andrews on our degree routes page .
If you are applying to our BA International Honours degrees - our joint degree programme with the College of William and Mary - you can start your application by selecting the course you are interested in below.
Find out more about the joint degree programme .
If you are experiencing problems with the online application, please email myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/transfer:
The University of St Andrews accepts a small number of applications each year from students who wish to transfer to the University from another higher education institution.
Transfer applicants from the UK must apply through UCAS .
Overseas students (this is most international students, see fee status) can use our direct application , if St Andrews is the only university within the UK that you are applying to.
If you are applying to more than one university in the UK, then you must apply through UCAS .
If you wish to apply to transfer to the University, this timeline will help you through the application process.
The following supplementary documents must be sent directly to myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk to arrive as soon as possible after you submit your application.
Please mark all documentation clearly with your name and UCAS number, if applicable.
As we receive many applications from well-qualified students, the number of places available to transfer students is limited and entry is competitive.
Transfer students will usually need to have exceptional academic records and a valid reason for wishing to transfer their studies to the University of St Andrews.
If you wish to transfer to the University, you must already hold the minimum grades and any subject-specific prerequisites for the courses that you are interested in transferring to.
For UK qualifications, these can be found on all course pages and at the back of the Undergraduate Prospectus.
All other students can find the international entry requirements on the entry requirements page.
It is not possible to transfer into the Faculty of Medicine .
It is not possible to transfer into the final year of a four-year MA or BSc degree programme at the University.
The final date for the receipt of undergraduate applications to St Andrews to qualify for full and equal consideration is 6pm (GMT) on Wednesday 14 January 2026 .
Your application, including all supporting information, should be submitted by this date.
It is rare that places are available on our programmes after the January deadline.
International applications received after Wednesday 14 January 2026 may be placed on a waiting list.
First year BA International Honours students who wish to transfer must submit a new application to St Andrews through the usual admissions routes.
Applications will be considered in the context of the relevant applicant pool, and there is no guarantee that such an application will be successful.
Find out more about BA International Honours transfers .
Your transfer application, including all supporting information, should be submitted by Wednesday 14 January 2026 .
It is rare that places are available on our programmes after the January deadline, even for BA International Honours students wishing to transfer from the programme into a full St Andrews degree programme.
If you are classed as an overseas student for fee paying purposes (see fee status), and St Andrews is the only university within the UK that you are applying to, then you can use our direct application .
If you are applying to more than one university in the UK or are classed as a home student for fee paying purposes, then you must apply through UCAS.
UCAS applications should be made online using the UCAS website , where full information on the application procedure will be found.
Once you have submitted your application through UCAS, you must also send the secondary documentation (detailed above) directly to myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Direct applications and supporting information should be sent either by email to myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk or mail to:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-routes/direct-entry:
The University of St Andrews recognises that some students join the University having already studied their subject at an advanced level.
It is possible for well-qualified school leavers to apply for admission directly into the second year of some degree programmes in the Faculty of Science .
If you are offered a place with direct entry into second year, you can obtain a BSc Honours degree in three years instead of four, or could go on to complete an Integrated Masters degree such as the MChem, MGeol, MMath, MPhys or MSci Honours in four years rather than five.
This route is particularly popular with students applying to study Physics or Chemistry, and is also possible in Biological Science, Computer Science, Mathematics and Earth Science.
The additional entry requirements necessary to proceed directly into second year can be found on our course pages .
If you are considering applying directly into second year, you should be aware that this route does reduce the flexibility of course and module choice which is usually found in the St Andrews Honours degree programme .
Whilst some students receive an invitation to proceed directly into second year with their offer of a place, you may also discuss opportunities for entering second year of appropriate programmes with your academic adviser when you arrive.
Below is a list of courses which allow direct entry into second year.
Joint degrees including Biology
Joint degrees including Chemistry
Joint degrees including Computer Science
Joint degrees including Geology
In addition to direct entry, some Mathematics and Statistics Integrated Masters courses offer a Fast Track degree route, an accelerated course of study.
Joint degrees including Mathematics and Statistics
Joint degrees including Physics
In some circumstances, you may be awarded advanced standing credits based on your school or college qualifications achieved before starting at the University of St Andrews.
Over the course of your degree, you must achieve at least a specific number of credits in order to graduate.
Advanced standing credits can count towards the total number of credits needed, reducing the number of modules you must take during your studies.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/after:
Once you have submitted your application, the Admissions team will begin to process your application.
You will receive email confirmation from the Admissions team that the University has received your application, regardless of which application method you used.
Once you receive this email, you should not expect to hear from the University until a decision is made on your application.
All offers will be sent primarily in the form of an email, and successful applicants will also receive a letter and booklet containing more information about your offer.
If you applied through UCAS, your offer will also be confirmed through UCAS Hub .
The responsibility for making decisions on applications rests with Admissions in coordination with individual academic Schools.
We take into consideration not only the current and expected grades of your qualifications but also the context in which you achieved (or will achieve) them.
We also rely heavily on your personal statement and referee's report as the University does not interview for most undergraduate programmes.
Applicants for Medicine , our Supported Pathways programmes, BA International Honours and some part-time courses may be invited to an interview.
The decision-making process for students applying to transfer to the University is slightly different and is outlined in the transfer students section below.
You can read more about the decision-making process in our admissions policy.
If you are an applicant who meets the following criteria, you are required to pay a pre-payment fee of £4,000 GBP against your first year’s tuition fee:
For applicants who require a Student visa, the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) will display the total amount paid to date, including any pre-payments made, where applicable.
If a pre-payment remains unpaid, this will be taken as an indication that you no longer wish to take up the offer of a place at St Andrews.
You will not receive your entrant email and the CAS process if applicable will not commence until pre-payment has been made.
Pre-payments will only be refunded under the following circumstances:
Pre-payments are not refunded under any other circumstances.
To request a refund, you will need to complete the Pre-payment refund form .
The request must be submitted along with any evidence to myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk within 30 days of the official start date of your programme which is listed on your offer letter.
If you are a University of St Andrews International Foundation student progressing on to first or second year of an Undergraduate programme, you are not required to make a pre-payment to accept your offer.
If you are an incoming international study abroad programme student, you are not required to make a pre-payment to accept your offer.
There are three responses that you may receive in response to your application.
An unconditional offer
This means that you have already achieved the required grades or qualifications to study your selected course, and your offer has been confirmed.
A conditional offer
This means that you have not yet achieved the required grades or qualifications to study your selected course, and your offer will only be confirmed if you obtain the stated grades or qualifications.
If you meet the conditions of our offer, we will confirm your place, but if you do not achieve the stated grades or qualifications, your offer may be withdrawn.
We are unable to offer you a place
Regrettably, we receive many more applications from well-qualified applicants than we have places to offer, and we have been unable to offer you a place on your selected course.
If you have yet to complete your school-leaving exams, you should not expect an unconditional offer.
Conditional offers are made to suitable applicants on the condition that they achieve certain grades or qualifications, at which point their offer will be confirmed.
Should any details that influenced our initial offer decision change, for example the fee status, we will reassess the offer and reserve the right to withdraw it.
The University of St Andrews evaluates every application based on its individual merits, and we are obligated to give equal consideration to all applications submitted by the appropriate UCAS deadlines.
Every year h owever, the University receives many more applications from well-qualified applicants than there are places to offer.
Once we have made a decision, you will be notified by UCAS and any offer conditions will be visible through the UCAS Hub .
All applicants who applied by the relevant UCAS deadline will receive a decision no later than the UCAS d eadline in May.
Details of application deadlines for St Andrews can be found on our applying through UCAS page .
If you have been offered a place at the University of St Andrews, you should use UCAS to alert us whether you wish to accept our offer.
You can hold up to two offers at UCAS: one firm choice and a second insurance choice.
The offer you confirm as your firm choice is effectively your first choice of university, whilst your insurance offer is your second choice in case you do not meet the required grades to fulfil the entrance requirements of your firm choice.
Due to this, your insurance choice will often be an offer asking for lower grades than your firm choice.
If you wish to accept an offer from the University, you are required to indicate whether it is your firm or your insurance choice through  the UCAS Hub .
You must respond to your UCAS offer in good time to ensure that your place is not declined by default.
You may wish to decline our offer, in which case you should also respond through the UCAS Hub .
If you are an international applicant who applied through a direct application or the Common Application , you will receive a response to your application through the St Andrews applicant portal.
This will outline your offer and conditions.
You should respond to your offer in the portal, indicating whether or not you will be taking up your place.
If you have any questions relating to your offer, please email myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .
You must reply to your offer by the following:
International students may require a visa to live and study in the UK.
Whether or not you need a visa, and the type of visa you will require, depends on your nationality and the length of the course you are planning to undertake.
To apply for a student visa , you will require a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) number , which is issued by the University.
You cannot apply for your Student visa until you have received your CAS number.
The CAS number will not be issued before March.
You are unable to apply for your visa more than six months before the start of term.
For more information on who to contact if you have any questions, visit the support for international students web page.
If you have applied to the University as a transfer student, consideration of your application will involve several stages:
Once we have made a decision on your application, we will inform you via UCAS Hub .
If we are able to offer you a place, we will specify the point of entry (first year, second year or third year) in our offer to you.
If you receive an offer to study at St Andrews and you will be aged between 16 and 18 when you join the University, we will contact you to let you know that you need to read and complete the Young Student Information Sheet and Authorisation Form.
The completed form should be returned to myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Young Student Information Sheet and Authorisation Form 2025-2026 (Word)
If you have applied for a course which accepts students directly into second year, you should expect a response in the usual manner for your chosen application process – for example, if you applied through UCAS, your offer would be sent through UCAS Hub .
Usually, any offer for a course which accepts direct entry into second year will state the year of entry, but opportunities for entering second year of appropriate courses can also be discussed with your academic adviser when you arrive.
If you have successfully applied to join the University of St Andrews on a year or semester abroad, view the Collaborations and Study Abroad section .
If you wish to change the start date of your course, you can submit a formal request to defer your admission by contacting myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Deferral requests are considered on a case-by-case basis following the guidance basis o utlined in the Admissions Policy.
T here is no guarantee that a request will be granted.
Deferred entry requests will only be considered for those seeking admission immediately following the admissions cycle initially applied for.
If your request is unsuccessful:
If you request is successful:
If you wish to be considered for a change of course, you can submit a request via email contacting myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Each request is considered on a case-by-case basis following the guidance outlined in the Admissions Policy.
Due to the high level of competition for places, there is no guarantee that a request will be granted.
If your request is granted, you will be issued with a new offer letter which will include any new offer conditions associated with your new course, where relevant.
If you are unsuccessful in your request, please refer to our flexible degree structure to understand about the different routes available to students at St Andrews.
To have a chance of securing an offer on your selected course, you may be required to withdraw your application and reapply in a subsequent cycle.
If you have been classed as Overseas for fee purposes, changes to the course will not be considered if you have received a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS).
At any point within the application cycle, you may submit information on extenuating circumstances to the University as part of your application by emailing myapplication@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Each case of extenuating circumstances will be considered on a case-by-case basis, following the guidance outlined in the Admissions Policy.
We aim to let you know our decision on your application as quickly as possible.
If you applied through UCAS you can track the progress of your application through UCAS Hub .
All candidates can track their application through the My application portal .
To avoid missing out on key information, consider linking a personal email address to your application, not one for a school or college.
Sometimes institutional filters might prevent information reaching you.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/entry/academic-entry-explained:
Although entry to the University of St Andrews is competitive, we recognise a range of different qualifications and consider all aspects of your application, including context, your personal statement, and your reference.
Grades alone will not guarantee you admission.
The University of St Andrews also offers alternative entry routes for applicants who come from areas where we receive limited applications and where students are unable to obtain the required grades, as well as for those who are returning to education after an extended period of time.
You will need qualifications, a personal statement and a reference.
For some specific degree programmes, you may also need to:
You also need to apply on time:
The qualifications and grades you need vary by degree programme and may also depend on whether you are a widening access student.
We consider you to be a widening access student if you fit into one or more of the following categories:
You can find out if we will consider you to be a widening access student on our undergraduate academic entry qualification indicator .
Through our guaranteed offer scheme we will make an offer to all applicants who declare a care-experienced background or who reside in the 20% most deprived areas of Scotland as indicated by the postcode (SIMD20) and also attend a school which has 30% or lower progression to higher education, provided that the desire to study the subject is demonstrable, the minimum asking rates within all specified required subjects are met and, if relevant, the applicant passes an external testing or interview.
No other applicant will receive such a guaranteed offer.
You can find out if you will be eligible for the guaranteed offer scheme on our undergraduate academic entry qualification indicator .
Our entry requirements are listed on our course webpages .
There are three levels of entry requirements:
For example, the BSc Chemistry entry requirements will be displayed like this:
SQA Highers
GCE A-Levels
IB points
In order to widen access to our degree programmes we accept various other qualifications in place of the ones stated on the subject pages of this prospectus.
Some of the qualifications we accept include:
We accept a variety of different qualifications.
You can find out more about all the qualifications we accept on the entry requirements section of our website.
This page and the entry qualifications indicator only relate to undergraduate degree programmes that do not require a previous undergraduate degree.
If you have questions about our academic entry requirements or are unsure which requirements you will need to meet, please contact the Admissions team .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/policy/contextual-data:
The University is committed to reducing and eliminating barriers to entry for students with the potential to succeed at St Andrews.
We ensure that no applicant is disadvantaged in the admissions process due to their socio-economic background, including factors related to their place of education, individual circumstances or residence.
This is achieved using relevant pre-entry information, clear entry requirements and robust assessment methods, tailored to each application cohort.
Find out more about our commitment to contextual admissions and use of contextual data:
The University of St Andrews has a limited number of places it can offer for undergraduate study each year and not all who meet all our entry requirements can be offered a place.
It is therefore important that we set out our principles for assessing applications so you know what you can expect from us.
We are committed to the Universities Scotland guarantee of fairness when applying to a university in Scotland, as outlined on the Universities Scotland website .
All admissions decisions at the University of St Andrews are made in line with the University’s Admissions Policy .
The University’s ambition is to contribute towards achieving equity of access across Scotland and the wider United Kingdom, regardless of socio-economic background.
We pledge to make an offer to all first-degree applicants who:
or
This promise is given if you can demonstrate the desire to study the subject, if the minimum asking rates within all specified required subjects are met and, and if relevant to the course you are applying for, there is success in additional external testing (e.g.
UCAT for Medicine) or interview.
To be eligible for the guarantee, the entry requirements need to be achieved by the applicant in their first attempt at an entry qualification.
(e.g.
qualifications achieved in resits are not considered)
The use of contextual information alone does not result in an automatic offer of a place being made to an applicant.
The decision-making process is based on individual applicant details contained with their application form and any further evidence requested to verify individual circumstances as outlined below.
Contextual information is collated centrally for all applicants with a Home Funded or Rest of the UK (RUK) fee status.
This information together with applicant data are used by Admissions Officers to put the achievements of each individual applicant into context when selecting the most appropriate candidates for places at the University of St Andrews.
Initially, we will bring the applications that meet our contextual criteria to the attention of our Admissions Officers making decisions.
The proportion or number of applicants we identify is not set in advance, although we monitor it for the purposes of planning.
The proportion of such applicants will vary between academic subjects and from year to year depending on who applies.
All applicants will be expected to meet at least the minimum entrance requirements as set by the academic Schools, with the contextual data being used in combination with the principles and selection criteria contained in the Admissions Policy .
All applications that meet, or can meet, the minimum entrance requirements and contain all the required information and further evidence requested, will be assessed by an Admissions Officer using academic results, personal statements and references alongside additional testing and interviews where required for specific programmes.
The University of St Andrews uses contextual data for applicants in the UK who are classified as either Home or RUK (rest of the UK) for fee purposes.
This information helps determine which set of undergraduate academic entry requirements are most likely relevant to each applicant.
Based on the information that you provide, this indicator will tell you which category of entry requirements you will need to look at on our subject pages .
There are three categories of entry requirements:
Candidates who receive a guaranteed offer outcome have met the contextual indicators that align with the criteria set out under the St Andrews pledge .
Information provided in this indicator tool may be subject to later verification during the application cycle in line with our Admissions Policy and this Use of Contextual Data statement.
When applications are submitted, a further assessment will take place to determine whether applicants are eligible for minimum entry requirements or a guaranteed place.
The data used in our entry indicator and for our contextualised admissions process for September 2026 was updated and is fixed on 2 September 2025.
There are three main types of contextual data or indicators that our Admissions Officers will consider when reaching their decisions on an application.
These are laid out below.
We wish to ensure that those admitted based on their potential to do well at St Andrews come from the widest possible cross section of society.
To ensure we achieve this, we build diversity factors into our admissions process in the following way:
Data sources:
We wish to ensure entrants with the greatest potential are selected for the most appropriate course at the University of St Andrews; we will consider the academic performance of the applicant shown through their academic achievements and the educational environment in which this education took place using:
To ensure that we can take account the individual contextual circumstances of applicants, we consider the following criteria, except for where the specific entrance requirements of a programme state otherwise.
These individual circumstances will be determined from the application and may be subject to further verification checks.
Declaration of these circumstances by an applicant does not result in an automatic offer of a place.
Additional support needs or circumstances that have significantly impacted academic performance—such as long-term illness or disability - are not assessed through the use of contextual data.
Instead, these are considered separately under Section 24: applicants with extenuating circumstances of the University’s Admissions Policy .
The University of St Andrews has committed to reducing and eliminating barriers to entry to postgraduate degrees classified as home for fee purposes.
We are undertaking work to widen access to postgraduate study and to support this we introduced a contextual information section into our taught postgraduate (PGT) application form in 2023.
The responses to these questions will be made available to our academic admissions officers and can be used to put the achievements of each individual applicant into context when assessing PGT applications.
The information that an applicant can provide at the point of application includes:
For 2026 entry the responses to the specific contextual information questions in our application will be available to our academic admissions officers when assessing PGT applications.
The declaration of contextual information alone, which may be subject to verification by Admissions, does not result in an automatic offer of a place being made to an applicant.
Grounds for raising complaints surrounding the Use of Contextual Data are limited to procedural error or irregularities in how the application of the Use of Contextual Data Policy has been applied in the assessment of an application.
Complaints will be managed in line with the University Complaints Handling Procedure .
In the first instance, complaints should be addressed to the Director of Admissions.
The University will not investigate complaints that question the judgement exercised in an admissions decision, which the University is entitled to make, unless credible evidence of maladministration resulting in a material flaw in the decision-making process.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/entry/language-requirements/undergraduate:
Whether you will need to provide an English language test score to evidence your English language ability depends on your educational background.
Decisions are normally taken based on the following criteria, but the University of St Andrews reserves the right to ask for additional evidence of English language ability.
You should not need to provide an English language test score to evidence your English language ability if one of the following applies:
You are a national of the UK or you are a national of a country in the United Kingdom Visas and Immigration (UKVI) list of majority English-speaking countries .
You have an English medium secondary or high school leaving qualification, which you will be required to provide proof of, that meets these two requirements:
Schools in a UKVI majority English-speaking country, schools in Singapore, and IB English medium schools meet this requirement.
For English medium schools elsewhere, we may require evidence that your school has a substantial English language educational environment.
2.
Includes at least one subject with a substantial component of writing in English .
See all acceptable subjects and their grade requirements.
You have completed an International Foundation programme at the University of St Andrews and have achieved the threshold score to be admitted onto an undergraduate degree programme.
Students who cannot provide any of the evidence above will need to submit a valid English language test score as indicated below.
If you have completed your final four years of secondary or high school education in an English medium school this may in some cases be considered as evidence of English language ability.
This will be considered on a case-by-case basis at the point of application.
Please emal medical.admissions@st-andrews.ac.uk for more information.
The table below indicates a language profile for each Faculty.
Clicking on a profile link will take you to the list of acceptable tests and scores that you may submit to meet English language requirements for your intended degree.
Test scores are only normally accepted if obtained within two years of the programme start date.
Typically, profiles listed here will include a score on the University’s own 4-week Pre-sessional Course, which can be taken to meet English language requirements.
See more details on the University of St Andrews Academic English Pre-sessional courses .
If you have already achieved the required English language level before you apply, please include the evidence with your application form.
Evidence of your English language ability can also be submitted after you have applied, so please do not wait for your results before you apply to the University.
If you do not have evidence that you have met the English language requirement before you apply, this will form part of any conditional offer the University makes you.
We may recommend or require you to attend one or more pre-sessional courses, which provide English language and academic orientation and are designed to prepare you for study.
If you are taking a pre-sessional course before you start your undergraduate degree:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/medicine:
Find out about the undergraduate and postgraduate course options offered in the School of Medicine
School of Medicine researchers have launched the largest-ever survey of Scots’ sleep health, experiences, and views on national policy.
Dr Milla Marinova, CEO of R8ER, shared insights on clinical entrepreneurship and innovation in healthcare at the Mackenzie Institute seminar.
The School of Medicine hosted a visit from the University of Bonn Faculty of Medicine on 2 December 2024, marking a significant step forward in their growing partnership.
School of Medicine University of St Andrews North Haugh St Andrews KY16 9TF
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3599 Email: medicine@st-andrews.ac.uk Twitter: @StAndMedicine Instagram: @StAndMedicine

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/taught:
Before applying to study for a taught programme at the University, ensure that you can meet all of the University’s minimum entry requirements.
The information below includes details on how and when to apply for our taught programmes.
Please note that for us to begin processing your application, payment of the £50 (pounds sterling) fee is required.
In some circumstances students may be considered for an application fee waiver.
If you are interested in studying a research programme, visit the research programmes page for details on how to apply.
You can apply online, save your progress and continue working on your application before you submit it.
Applications open in August each year and close at different points depending on the course.
Check your course page for the deadline.
You should apply as early as possible.
This will give you time to apply for scholarships, accommodation, and a visa (if applicable).
You can apply before you have been awarded your undergraduate degree.
The University can make you a conditional offer based on receiving a specific mark for your degree.
Most taught Masters programmes:
Some programmes have different application deadlines.
Visit the subjects page to find the application deadline for your course.
When reviewing your application, the University will consider:
If you have not yet applied, ask your referee to include information about these circumstances in their reference, and include any documentation you may have in your application.
After you have applied, you can email documentation to pgt.application@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The University will notify you when there is a decision on your application.
This may take four to six weeks after your application is complete.
Decisions on applications for programmes such as Psychology and MSc Marine Mammal Science will be made after the application deadline.
This is because these programmes use a gathered field approach, where all applications are collected before being assessed.
An incomplete application or missing required documents will delay the decision.
You can apply for multiple courses, but you cannot specify if you prefer one course or another.
If you want to apply for more than one course, you should complete a separate application form for each course.
It is not possible to study two courses at the same time and it is unlikely that you could take a class from another course and have it count towards your credit load .
Students can sometimes audit classes from another course with approval from the course coordinator.
If you are applying to the Business School you should only need to submit one application as the most suitable course will be offered to you.
You should email pgt.application@st-andrews.ac.uk if:
To study a taught programme you’ll normally need a good first degree with Honours from a UK university, or its overseas equivalent.
Not all degree programmes require prior experience.
Some require you to have studied a certain subject or range of subjects, so it is important that you check your individual course page.
Read the entry requirements and country information for more details.
You must provide your qualification documents in their original language, and a translated copy of each.
The translation needs verification that it is certified by a qualified individual or organisation.
This must include the full name and contact details of the individual or organisation who made the translation.
We do not require the GMAT or the GRE.
In more complex cases we cannot assess qualifications in full before you submit your application.
If you are unsure whether your qualifications meet the entry requirements, or if you think you do not have the grades specified, we encourage you to apply.
All applications are assessed on a case-by-case basis taking into account all information provided to us, not just your grades.
Applicants whose first language is not English must provide evidence of English proficiency .
An English language test result is not required when you first apply.
We will review your background to see if you meet our English language requirements.
If you do not meet these requirements, your offer may include a condition for you to achieve a specific score in your English language test.
Read the English language requirements page for full details.
Applicants to the following programmes must also complete a supplementary application form.
Read the application requirements on your course page:
Check the course page for all the documents you’ll need when you apply.
You must submit your documents using the applicant portal .
You will need to submit the required documents before your application can be considered.
Your application form will guide you on what documents are required for your programme.
Some programmes might want to see a sample of academic written work, though not all programmes require this.
For more information, contact the School that delivers your programme.
The sample:
The sample must be written by you.
If you want to include a piece of work with more than one author, you should include a section that only you wrote.
The sample should be as close to 2,000 words as possible.
You can use a few more words to provide context if you need to, but if the sample is considerably longer the School may only consider a sample that approximates 2,000 words.
The sample is used to assess your writing style.
The 2,000-word limit does not include bibliography, reference list or footnotes.
To meet the conditions of your offer, you should submit the documents required in the conditions of your offer by 21 August in the year of entry.
If you require a visa to study in the UK you must provide evidence to meet the conditions of your offer before this deadline, so that you can start your course in September.
You must provide a reference with your application.
Some programmes may ask for a second reference.
If you cannot provide any academic references, please contact the School you are applying to.
Your reference must include your full name and proposed programme of study.
The University cannot make a decision on your application until the reference has been submitted.
When you apply, the University will normally email your referee to request an academic reference.
You are responsible for making sure that your referee sends their references to the University.
Your referee can either:
A referee may use their own headed paper.
If you are applying for more than one programme each application must contain a copy of your supporting documents.
A reference is required for each programme application.
The majority of taught Masters programmes will start in September of each year with the exception of some online courses .
Application closing dates vary depending on the programme you are applying for and whether you are applying for scholarship funding.
Please refer to the appropriate subject page for these deadlines.
Some programmes will close before the deadline if the course is full.
In all cases, early application is advisable.
This is to allow sufficient time to process our decision and, importantly, to give you time to obtain visas, apply for scholarships and organise travel arrangements, if needed.
Decisions normally take around four to six weeks once all supporting documents and references have been received and the application is complete with the exception of the MSc Psychology (Conversion) and MSc Marine Mammal Science when decisions will be sent out after the closing date.
Tuition fees will vary depending on what programme you are studying and where you are from.
You may be able to apply for help with funding your studies at the University.
Early application is strongly advised if you are applying for a tuition fees .
Many have an early closing date, often between December and February, and most scholarships require you to be holding an offer in order to be considered for funding.
We continue to accept self-funded applications even after scholarship deadlines have passed.
If you need further guidance on this, please contact the School that you are applying to.
For more advice on scholarships and funding, please go to postgraduate scholarships .
You can also find out more about our current scholarship .
You can make this payment through the University's online shop .
Please provide the order number given to your purchase on your application form so that we can match the payment to your application.
Applications for the University's online postgraduate programmes are exempt from this application fee.
The application fee can be waived in the following circumstances.
The application fee will be waived for applicants:
The application fee will be waived for applicants who have a valid Asylum Registration Card or relevant Biometric Residence Permit.
International applicants domiciled in low-income countries and territories
The application fee will be waived for applicants who are domiciled in low-income countries and territories as defined by the OECD least-developed and low-income country and territory and World Bank low-income country and territory lists.
Requests for the application fee to be waived in any of the circumstances above can be made through the application form or by contacting the Admissions team .
Applicants can disclose the details of any disabilities or specific learning needs that they have in the relevant section of the application form.
The University’s Disability team will review this information.
You can declare a disability or long-term medical condition before or after starting your course, but the University cannot guarantee that resources will be available when you arrive if you don’t declare before you start.
Complete this online form to contact the Advice and Support Centre (ASC) as soon as you can to ensure the University will have enough time to make reasonable adjustments.
Applications are assessed purely on academic merit.
The impact of a disability will be considered only after a final decision has been made on your application.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/after:
Once you have submitted your postgraduate application, the Admissions team will begin to process your application.
You should receive email confirmation from the Registry team that the University has received your application.
All offers will be sent primarily in the form of an email.
More information about types of offers, how to respond, and the pre-payment of fees can be found below.
You will receive an email from the University when there is a decision on your application.
The email will include one of the following messages:
This means that you have achieved the required grades or qualifications to study your selected course.
Your offer has been confirmed.
This means that you have not yet achieved the required grades or qualifications to study your selected course.
Your offer will only be confirmed if you get the required grades or qualifications.
Your offer email will specify the conditions of your offer.
These may be the classification of your forthcoming degree and your evidence of English language ability.
If you meet the conditions of our offer, we will confirm your place at the University.
If you do not achieve the stated grades or qualifications, your offer may be withdrawn.
Regrettably, we receive many applications from well-qualified applicants and we have been unable to offer you a place on your selected course.
Follow the instructions on your offer email.
Your application cannot proceed until you have:
It is not usually possible to postpone (also known as ‘to defer’) the start of your taught postgraduate programme.
You may request deferment until the following academic year by emailing the School directly and explaining why you want to defer.
You can decline your offer through the applicant portal .
You will be asked to complete a survey after selecting the decline option.
If your offer requires you to make a pre-payment to secure your place at the University, follow the instructions on your offer email.
Your pre-payment will be deducted from your tuition fee.
Your course application will not be able to proceed until your pre-payment is complete.
Your place at the University is not guaranteed if the pre-payment is made after the deadline.
If you need a visa to study in the UK, your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) will specify how much money you have already paid to the University, including your pre-payment.
If you are made an offer, your offer letter will clearly state the date by which your offer is required to be accepted and the pre-payment is required to be paid to secure your place.
If you are an applicant who meets the following criteria, you are required to pay a pre-payment fee of £4,000 GBP against the balance of your tuition fee:
For applicants who require a Student visa, the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) will display the total amount paid to date, including any pre-payments made, where applicable.
If you are an applicant who meets the following criteria, you are required to pay a pre-payment fee of £500 GBP against the balance of your tuition fee:
If a pre-payment remains unpaid, this will be taken as an indication that you no longer wish to accept the offer to study at St Andrews.
Email pgt.application@st-andrews.ac.uk if you have missed the deadline or have any questions about your pre-payment.
You have a 14-day statutory cancellation period during which you can change your mind about accepting an offer to study at the University.
After accepting your University offer and making your pre-payment, your offer will become a binding agreement with the University of St Andrews.
The postgraduate terms and conditions of this agreement will remain in force for the duration of your studies at the University.
The University will tell you if any changes need to be made to your programme.
You can find more information on course revision, teaching provision and fee setting policies in your University offer and in the further particulars of offers policy .
To request a refund, you must complete the pre-payment refund form and submit any relevant evidence to pgt.application@st-andrews.ac.uk within 30 days of the official start date of your programme on your offer letter.
You can pay your fees by direct debit, credit card, bank transfer, or in instalments.
Read more about your tuition and accommodation payment options .
Check the postgraduate scholarships for funding opportunities.
Your prospective supervisor may also have advice on sources of funding for your research project.
If English is not your first language, attending a pre-sessional course can help you develop your academic English and study skills.
There are pre-sessional courses for students with and without an English language condition on their University offer.
Email presessional@st-andrews.ac.uk for information.
You will have a contract with the University of St Andrews when you accept your offer to study at the University.
The University aims to ensure that students are aware of the main provisions of the agreement and this document offers further information on key aspects of your offer:
Each year, the University allocates some accommodation specifically for postgraduate students.
Prospective postgraduate students are able to apply for University accommodation once they have accepted their offer and , for taught programmes, paid the required pre-payment fee.
The online accommodation application form is open from 1 March onwards.
University accommodation is a popular choice, so you are encouraged to apply as early as possible to secure a place.
We will continue to accept University accommodation applications after 30 June but these will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you think your undergraduate results won’t arrive on time and could affect your accommodation application, email accommodation@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Offers of accommodation will be sent from the end of May until late August.
Your application will be processed when your offer becomes unconditional.
Email accommodation@st-andrews.ac.uk if you have any questions.
International postgraduate students who normally live outside the UK will get priority access to postgraduate accommodation.
To get priority access, you must:
Accommodation for couples or families is limited.
Read more about the accommodation options for couples and families.
Contact Accommodation to discuss your requirements.
You must check if you need a visa to study in the UK.
You cannot apply for your visa more than six months before the start date of your course.
Once you have firmly accepted your offer the University will give you a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) to support your visa application.
When your CAS number is ready, the Registry team will email you the number.
You must wait for your CAS number before you start your visa application.
If you have any questions, email advint@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Find out more about moving to the UK.
A contract is formed between the University and you once you accept the offer of a place.
The terms of this contract include the following policies, and your acceptance of a place is subject to them.
For full details on our terms and conditions and policies, please see the relevant links below:
St Andrews is a small town, so most people cycle or walk to travel within the town.
There are frequent buses within the town and to local communities.
Some students choose to bring a car with them, but it is not essential, and parking can be limited.
The nearest airport is Edinburgh airport, and the nearest train station is Leuchars.
The University offers a free night bus for all students during term time.
Find out how to get to St Andrews .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/using-library:
Information to help you use our libraries.
Log in to view your loans, holds, and more.
Information for new and returning Library users.
Frequently asked questions about Library services and support.
How to borrow, request and return physical items from University libraries.
Includes information about charges and fines.
Use the Scan and Deliver service to get journal articles or 10% of a work sent to your email.
Find out what resources are available and how to request more.
Information for all Library users, including visiting academics.
Accessibility information.
If you're studying remotely, we can help you to access most Library resources.
Apply to visit the British Library or National Library of Scotland, or learn about SCONUL Access to other institutions.
Learn how to report lost property.
Current University students can rent a locker in the Main Library or at Martyrs Kirk.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/resources:
A range of services to support you with learning and research.
Search for your module or subject to find the readings for your classes.
Find databases and resources for your subject area.
Information about different platforms, and ways to access our online books.
Search for online journals or browse by title.
Find out more about recommending books for the Library to purchase.
The Library may be able to find the item you need by sourcing it from another library.
Find a thesis written by a University of St Andrews student, or students at UK and international universities.
Search through recent and archived newspapers.
Get support and advice on open access, the journal hosting service, and research data management.
Find out how to use and access our SafePod at Walter Bower House.
Explore the University's photographs, artworks, objects, manuscripts, muniments and digitised rare books.
Visit, support, or collaborate with the Museums team.
A guide to self-help resources and links to external resources.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/support:
We can help to support you with research and teaching.
The Academic Liaison team can advise academic staff and students on all aspects of Library services.
The Open Research team provide support and advice on open access, the journal hosting service and research data management.
Current library representatives for University Schools and Departments.
Guidance for teaching staff about online reading lists for their modules.
Learn how to cite references in your studies.
Copyright information for staff, students and researchers.
Use the University's Personal Development Management System to book a class on referencing software or using specialist databases.
Click 'Show all courses' to view.
Email Library staff to book an appointment to get help with Library services, including finding books and journals, using specialist databases, and referencing.
Email Library staff to get help with complex search questions and support for systematic reviews, financial databases and other specialist resources.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/accessibility:
Support for library users with disability.
Find out more about the support offered by the University's Disability team.
If you're studying remotely, we can help you access most Library resources.
Visit the AccessAble website for information about physical access to key University buildings.
Floor plans for our main library spaces.
Use the University map to get directions to different buildings.
Digital accessibility features of the library's online resources.
Create documents in accessible alternative formats.
Browse the library's accessibility statements.
Use this course to develop your study skills.
Learn how to use referencing software.
Reference styles used at the University of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/about:
Learn about us as a Unit.
Read the University libraries terms and conditions.
Information about upcoming changes to our Reading Lists system.
News about our libraries and University Collections.
News about ongoing research from University Collections.
Find out more about using the marketplace spaces outside the Main Library for fundraising.
Learn more about who can use our libraries.
Learn how to make a complaint to the University libraries, and what will happen after.
Find out how you can donate to the University libraries.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/library/contact:
University of St Andrews Main Library North Street St Andrews KY16 9TR
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2331 Email: library@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2024-2025/key-date-students-2025-2026:
This webpage provides key dates and deadlines for University of St Andrews students.
The dates are correct at the time of publication, but are subject to change as a result of unforeseen circumstances.
Please email registry-admin@st-andrews.ac.uk with queries.
Christmas holidays for students start on Tuesday 23 December.
Released on Monday 26 May 2025

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2027-2028:
St Andrews has two semesters each year: Martinmas semester from September to December and Candlemas semester from January to May.
Christmas vacation starts on Tuesday 21 December 2027.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2026-2027:
Christmas vacation starts on Tuesday 22 December 2026.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2024-2025:
These pages include selected future key dates for Postgraduate students.
Christmas vacation starts on Saturday 21 December 2024.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2023-2024:
St Andrews has two semesters each year: Martinmas semester from September to December and Candlemas semester from January to May.
Monday 4 September to Tuesday 19 December 2023
Christmas vacation starts on Tuesday 19 December 2023.
Monday 15 January to Friday 25 May 2024
May Day holiday: Monday 6 May Semester 2 examinations finish: Tuesday 7 May Extended examination diet.
Exams begin: Wednesday 8 May
Monday 27 May to Friday 6 September 2024

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2022-2023:
Monday 5 September to Monday 26 December 2022
Christmas vacation start date: Tuesday 20 December 2022
Monday 16 January to Friday 26 May 2023
Monday 29 May to Friday 1 September 2023

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2021-2022:
Monday 13 September to Monday 20 December 2021
Monday 20 December to Friday 14 January 2022
Monday 17 January to Friday 27 May 2022
Monday 30 May to Friday 2 September 2022

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2020-2021:
Monday 14 September to Friday 18 December 2020
Monday 21 December 2020 to Friday 22 January 2021
Monday 25 January to Friday 21 May 2021
Monday 31 May to Friday 3 September 2021

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2019-2020:
St Andrews has two semesters each year: Martinmas semester from September to December and Candlemas semester from February to May.
Monday 16 September to Friday 20 December 2019
Monday 23 December 2019 to Friday 24 January 2020
Monday 27 January to Friday 29 May 2020
Monday 1 June to Friday 4 September 2020

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2018-2019:
Monday 17 September to Friday 21 December 2018
Monday 24 December 2018 to Friday 25 January 2019
Monday 28 January to Friday 31 May 2019
Monday 3 June to Friday 6 September 2019

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2017-2018:
Monday 18 September to Friday 22 December 2017
Monday 25 December 2017 to Friday 26 January 2018
Monday 29 January to Friday 1 June 2018
Monday 4 June to Friday 7 September 2018

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2016-2017:
Monday 12 September to Friday 16 December 2016
Monday 19 December 2016 to Friday 20 January 2017
Monday 23 January to Friday 26 May 2017
Monday 29 May to Friday 8 September 2017

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/semester-dates/2015-2016:
Monday 14 September to Friday 18 December 2015
Monday 21 December 2015 to Friday 22 January 2016
Monday 25 January to Friday 27 May 2016
Monday 30 May to Friday 9 September 2016

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/jobs/why-join-us:
People are intrinsic to our success as a University.
St Andrews is a unique and captivating place, and the University is a key part of its attraction.
Explore some of the reasons St Andrews could be the right place for you.
The University of St Andrews delivers the very best research-led education alongside an exceptional student experience.
Our academics work with colleagues and pre-eminent institutions around the globe to explore and explain the world around us and beyond.
Our professional services teams play a crucial role in supporting the institution's core purpose of teaching, learning and research.
Connecting industry with our student and staff community to harness a thriving entrepreneurial ecosystem.
The University is proud to offer modern apprenticeships to young people from the local area across a wide range of our disciplines.
Discover life at St Andrews: historic charm, stunning beaches, sustainable travel, world-class golf, and easy access to Scotland's beauty.
St Andrews offers a competitive reward package with health support, enhanced family leave, and professional development opportunities.
Explore professional and personal growth at St Andrews with tailored training, mentoring, leadership programs, and LinkedIn Learning access.
St Andrews supports health and wellbeing with fitness programs, resilience courses, mental health resources, and free tools like Peppy and Able Futures.
St Andrews fosters equality and diversity with inclusive networks, EDI action plans, and recognition through Athena Swan and Race Equality awards.
St Andrews drives sustainability through education, innovation, and initiatives like net zero by 2035 and the St Andrews forest.
“People are intrinsic to our success as a University.
Delivery of the University Strategy rests on the skills and commitment of its people.
To achieve our ambitions, we need to be able to recruit and retain the best staff, support their ongoing development, and create a culture and environment in which they can thrive and perform at their best both individually and collectively.”

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/jobs/st-andrews-stories:
Our employees are all unique, with a diverse range of skills and personalities that collectively contribute to making the University of St Andrews one of the highest-ranking universities in the UK, recognised globally for our outstanding research and exceptional student experience.
Hear from employees across the University as they share their stories, discuss their roles in shaping the institution, reflect on their career development, and offer insights into what it’s like to work at the University of St Andrews.
Dr Anna Brown, a senior lecturer in the Department of Management at the University of St Andrews, shares her journey from being a postgraduate student to becoming an education and research academic.
She highlights the appeal of the university's ethos, supportive community, and opportunities for leadership and research development, particularly in responsible management and craft industries.
Anna also appreciates the flexibility of academic life and the practicalities of commuting from Edinburgh to St Andrews.
I'm Anna Brown.
I'm a senior lecturer in management.
I work in the Department of Management in the Business School and I joined as faculty in 2017.
I was attracted to the role at St Andrews largely because I'd been a student here so I'd studied as a postgraduate master student and then completed my PhD in the department and I suppose that gave me an opportunity to get to know and understand the university but also to know the school and my potential colleagues.
I was really drawn by the ethos of the school.
We teach and study responsible management and that really chimed with the work that I wanted to do or was doing on craft work and understanding the craft industry but also how people learn and become skilled through various different practices.
I think also the size of the school was attractive so it's large enough that there's lots of interesting things going on but it's small enough that you can get to know people which was a big kind of draw for me.
My current role is working as an education and research academic in the Department of Management so as a senior lecturer I'm largely expected to balance teaching responsibilities with research responsibilities and also service and leadership roles.
Even if we take this month I've been submitting grant applications, writing abstracts for chapters, trying to work on papers and also establishing projects with colleagues in St Andrews and also in Ukraine as a kind of partnership that the university has ongoing on with one of the institutions over there.
I enjoy working in the department for lots of different reasons I suppose.
I've got lots of great colleagues, everyone's really friendly and supportive and collegiate and we're a really good team.
Also every day is different so you're not kind of going in and doing the same kinds of tasks every day.
There's lots of different things that you can do and a lot of that's the work that you're trying to self-generate as a researcher but then there's also the kind of teaching tasks so it kind of keeps your brain busy I suppose.
I enjoy working at the university because of the people.
I've had lots of opportunity to work in leadership roles and also at a faculty level and that allowed me to work across schools and also across units in the university and I think everyone I met was doing an incredible job and really great people and I think having that experience has also allowed me to kind of develop some of those relationships after the role.
My career at the university has developed since I joined in 2017 and I joined as an associate lecturer which is an education focused academic and since then I've undertaken various different leadership roles and been able to develop my research work and I've been promoted through to senior lecturer and then been able to change tracks to become an education and research focused academic.
I think the leadership opportunities that I've had both at school and institutional level have been really helpful in allowing me to practice those leadership skills and to gain new skills and I've also engaged in quite a lot of the university's mentoring programmes and their leadership programmes which have also helped and I think that also gave me an opportunity to kind of take time out from the kind of day to day stuff to reflect on who I wanted to be as a leader or as an academic even and to think about then how do I put that into practice so those two things together have really helped me kind of shape and develop my career and then I think also the support that I've gained from the school and from colleagues in the school to develop articles and publications and research work, the kinds of things that are going to enhance your research profile and your research career and also being supported to go to conferences and build networks and all of those kinds of things have been really great in the school.
Living in Edinburgh and working in St Andrews is really doable, it's a commutable distance and there's lots of modes of transport that you can take if it's a train or there's subsidised bus that's supported by the university and there's a car share scheme that we can enter into and that I've made good use of.
Also the work's flexible as an academic so I can usually spend about two days a week at home just depending on what my commitments are around teaching and the activities that are going on in the school.
Helen Faulds, Assistant Director for Library Collections and Digital Services, shares her journey from a six-month fixed-term post to a 16-year career at the University of St Andrews, driven by her love for the town and its community.
She leads teams that ensure access to vast print and digital resources and champions open, equitable research practices while valuing collaboration, agility, and inclusivity across the University.
Helen highlights the unique blend of professional support, historical charm, and stunning surroundings that make St Andrews a truly special place to live and work.
My name is Helen Faulds, I'm the Assistant Director for Library Collections and Digital Services based in Libraries and Museums here at the University.
I came up to St Andrews for a six-month project, fixed-term post and I've been here 16 years.
So, I was attracted to the initial post that I took at St Andrews because I came on holiday to St Andrews when I was wee with my family and had really amazing holiday with my family.
I've got really good fond memories of coming to St Andrews.
So, when I saw it advertised I thought "Oh, I've got to give it a whirl and see if I can get this post."
Came up, managed to secure the post and I've loved it ever since.
As far as I'm concerned there's no better place to live and work than St Andrews and to really to be able to work for Scotland's oldest university is an amazing thing.
So, in my current role as I say I'm the Assistant Director for Library Collections and Digital Services, but effectively myself and my teams we're responsible for the management and access of all of our print and digital collections and the services that support those.
So, in a nutshell that's access to over a million print books, 650,000 e-books, hundreds of thousands of e-journals and databases.
But, I kind of, I don't want to steal something from a supermarket but we're basically if you want it we'll get it for you and that could be, you know, a kind of niche research article from an American university or it could be a book from South America – we will get it for you.
Essentially, we are committed to support in teaching research here at the University of St Andrews, so we'll do whatever we can to do that.
And the other area that I look after is open research.
So, it's really, really important to me and my teams that we support scholarly communications and scholarly research and doing it in a way that ensures that it's open and equitable to everybody, so not just here at St Andrews we're really keen to be pushing an open research culture that's global and is accessible to all.
I really enjoy working in libraries and museums and at the University of St Andrews because it's the kind of...
the ability to support teaching and research effectively.
So, we really care about our staff and students and it's really, really important that we do a fantastic job to support them so they come to St Andrews and have an amazing experience.
When they walk into the University, I suppose I'm biased, I think libraries and museums is kind of the heart of the University – it's one of the biggest buildings in our little medieval town and it's a fantastic space to work in.
It's also really important to me that me and my colleagues, we work collaboratively not just in our unit but across the University and that we think first and foremost about how we...
the things that we do deliver the strategic aims of the University, whether that be access to world-class leading collections or – something that's important to me – making sure that our spaces, services and resources are accessible and equitable for the entire community we serve.
So, I suppose the things that influenced me the most about working at the University of St Andrews and the things that draw me and keep me here is the sense of it being small and mighty.
So, we may be based in this small medieval town but I think we pack a punch and it's that feeling of we're all interconnected and because we're kind of small, we're really agile.
So if we need to make change quickly, we can do so and I think because we're small and we know each other those kinds of...
the importance of building relationships, maintaining them and responding to change quickly is what keeps me here.
I came to St Andrews 16 years ago for a fixed-term post, I think I've been really fortunate while I've been here to have supportive line managers who've guided me and helped me develop my career and support me through that career progression.
So, St Andrews has fantastic staff training and development opportunities and I've always been in a position to make good use of that.
So, whether that be internal courses, whether that be doing things like the Aurora training, which has been brilliant, but also having the time and space to support my broader career progression.
My line managers helped me through charterships, so I'm now a chartered librarian and not all organisations are in a position to support that, but here at St Andrews that was possible.
And as I've progressed through my career here over the last 16 years, it's been really, really important to me to think about my staff and my team members and about paying it forward.
So, it's really important as an assistant director and as a manager to support my team, to develop in their careers, whether that be here at St Andrews or elsewhere.
My favourite things in St Andrews, I think how can you beat Chariots of Fire Beach?
I mean, come on!
Like, you only have to hear the Vangelis music and you're like – I get to live here.
I also think the fact that it's a medieval town and you're surrounded by history is really hard to beat.
My personal favourite while I've been living in St Andrews is the Lade Braes.
Lade Braes is a really beautiful little space alongside the botanic gardens and I tend to be spotted first thing on a Saturday morning: I like to go for a jog, but obviously just if you are into jogging maybe be mindful you'll probably see colleagues walking their dogs if you're in your gym gear.
But yeah, Lade Braes definitely one of the best places to go.
I'd recommend coming and working for the University of St Andrews based solely on our motto which is 'Ever to excel'.
That principle, how could you not want to work for that?
You get to work for the oldest university and help push and strive things forward and I don't think there's a better slogan.
Fantastic place to work, amazing colleagues and you get to do it all within this amazing place in Scotland.
Dr Anindya Rachaudry, a senior lecturer in the School of English at St Andrews, discusses his academic journey, research interests in postcolonial and Marxist theory, and the fulfilment he finds in teaching, research, and collaborative work.
He values the close-knit academic community, the opportunity to shape teaching and research in his field, and the challenge of engaging wider audiences through public scholarship.
Living in Edinburgh and commuting to St Andrews has also fostered meaningful connections and productive conversations with colleagues.
My name is Anindya Rachaudry.
I am a senior lecturer in the School of English.
I joined the university in 2012 as a postdoc and then became a lecturer and now a senior lecturer.
I was looking for a role in academia generally, but at the time the School of English was expanding in postcolonial literature specifically, which is one of my interests.
And since joining I've had the freedom not only to develop my own research but to help shape the research and teaching trajectories of the school.
As an academic there are three main components to my job, teaching, research and administration.
Like all of my colleagues I teach from first year undergraduate all the way through to PhD supervision and my research involves a range of different things.
I'm interested in postcolonial theory, in Marxist theory, in medical humanities.
In terms of administration I've had a number of roles.
I've been admissions officer for the school, I've been director of postgraduate research and I tend to find I'm happiest when the three roles work well together.
So my teaching influences my research and vice versa, hopefully making all of it a little bit better.
I love working in the School of English principally because of the people.
I love my colleagues, I love my students.
It's a wonderful sensation of having really interesting, clever people doing interesting, clever things that they care about.
It has happened so often where I'm teaching a book I know really well and a student will say something that will make me look at the book in a completely different way.
That sort of cross fertilisation of ideas, there's really nothing else like it.
St Andrews is a very small place and you get to know each other very quickly.
I always say that if you're going from one building to another you have to factor in an extra five minutes because you'll bump into someone you'll want to stop and talk about.
So we're a fairly close community.
One of the things that personally have been most influential for me in terms of my relationship with my colleagues is my role in our local branch of the trade union, University and College Union.
I've had a number of roles in the branch and it's such a great way to get to know people within my school and beyond in the wider university.
One of the advantages of working in a university like St Andrews is there are a lot of opportunities for personal professional development.
One area for me has been what we describe as knowledge exchange and public engagement and I really enjoy the challenge of taking really complex, difficult ideas and translating them to a non-specialist, non-academic audience without losing any of the nuance.
I was lucky enough to be named one of the New Generation Thinkers, that's a scheme run by the BBC and the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
I've been lucky enough to get some funding from the university to take my research and translate it to a wider non-academic audience and that is a challenge I particularly enjoy and it's an area in which I've been able to develop.
St Andrews is a beautiful place.
Back in the midst of time when I was applying for an undergraduate degree I remember reading in a paper prospectus that the English department was in a castle by the sea and I remember not looking anymore because I was convinced that they were lying.
Turns out, however many decades later, here I am and they weren't lying.
We work in a building that is pretty much in a castle by the sea.
The view looking out from my building is unbeatable.
St Andrews is a great place to work.
You'll be working with lots of really interesting colleagues, lots of really interesting students, clever people doing wonderful things, sometimes doing wonderfully silly things.
I love the sense of energy you get from university campus.
It's where I feel most at home and I think you'd really enjoy it.
So we moved to St Andrews from London and the relocation process was fairly simple.
We ended up living in Edinburgh and I commute in.
This is true for an increasing number of colleagues in our department and wider.
There's a WhatsApp driving group where we share plans and we car share and carpool a lot and actually those in-car conversations have been really enjoyable and really productive in terms of generating ideas for research.
Erin Niven, now a Senior IT/AV Technician, began her career at the University of St Andrews as a modern apprentice in 2015, drawn by her passion for IT and preference for hands-on learning over traditional academic routes.
She values the variety, teamwork, and supportive culture of the IT Services department, where no two days are the same and her work helps ensure smooth operations across the University.
Erin’s journey – from a shy apprentice to a degree student leading a sustainability project – reflects the growth opportunities and strong sense of community that make St Andrews a rewarding place to live and work.
I'm Erin Niven.
I work in IT services at the University of St Andrews.
We're based out in Walter Bower House in Guardbridge and I started off as an IT/AV Technician Apprentice and I'm now a Senior IT/AV Technician and I'm officially in my tenth year here.
So, when I was looking to start my career, I always wanted to work within IT.
It had been a real big interest of mine at school and really grabbed my attention.
I didn't like the traditional university route.
Exams really made me anxious and stressed, so I looked into the apprenticeship scheme and here I am today.
My role covers anything from individual staff setups to maintaining teaching room space and meeting space equipment.
I'm a part of a go-to team of people for when something goes wrong across the university with IT or AV equipment.
What I love most about my role is variety.
I could be solving problems on the spot or collaborating with other teams in IT on ways to improve our service.
At the end of the day it's all about making sure the technology works for the people and not against them.
I love working in my department because of the variety and the continuous opportunities to learn and grow.
I value the supportive and collaborative environment where teamwork is central to everything that we do.
The IT operation is so vast, so no two days are ever the same.
Every day there's something new to tackle whether it's troubleshooting an issue or supporting a new initiative in the department.
Everyone relies on IT in some way to do their job or learn here.
I am fortunate to work as a part of a team who support each other and collaborate daily to resolve issues.
It's incredibly rewarding to know that the work I do makes a difference for people working at the university.
I enjoy working at the University because of the sense of community and collaboration, working in an environment where I feel encouraged to professionally grow and achieve more every day.
The variety tasks makes my work very exciting and the positive workplace culture really motivates me to do my best every day.
Since joining the University in 2015 as a very shy modern apprentice, my personal and professional skills have developed hugely.
Since working from my apprenticeship role to where I am today as a senior IT/AV technician, I've come on leaps and bounds and that couldn't have been helped along without the support from my team and colleagues in the department.
One of the most significant developments in my journey is now starting a university degree.
I never thought I would do this as that was never on the cards when I first started here in 2015.
However, the support from my team and my department has been invaluable to where I've got to today.
As part of my university degree, I'm working on a project focused on sustainability and I'm really enjoying developing my skills in this area.
Being able to apply my knowledge and also help contribute to the strategic pillars of the University has been really great for me.
I grew up here, living very locally and what I love most about working in St Andrews is the sense of community and the little bit of history that the town has.
I really enjoy seeing the students starting at the start of semester getting ready to do their studies.
It's really interesting and exciting.
It brings a real buzz to the town.
I would recommend working at a university because it offers a supportive and dynamic environment where I'm always learning.
The University is full of passionate and like-minded people who are committed to their work.
The town itself is beautiful and very welcoming making it a great place to live and work.
With fantastic opportunities to grow and develop here, the University is brilliant so I would recommend it to anyone who wants to pursue their growth and career just like I did.
Cameron Little, an HR Business Partner at the University of St Andrews since 2006, began his journey through a work experience opportunity and has since built a long-standing career in Human Resources.
He supports Schools and professional services units across a wide range of HR matters, including workforce planning, staff immigration, and employee wellbeing, and enjoys the variety, people, and adaptability the role demands.
Cameron values the University’s supportive environment, work-life balance, and the vibrant community of St Andrews, where he also enjoys an active family life outdoors.
I'm Cameron Little, I'm an HR Business Partner within Human Resources and I've been working at the University since March 2006.
I've been in the local area since forever really.
I was originally born in New Zealand and moved here and did all my schooling in St Andrews and did a degree at Abertay in Dundee and a post-grad and I struggled to get employment to start with and I wrote a letter to the University asking for some work experience.
So I started helping out in the Recruitment Office and with HR Business Partners at the time dealing with admin work and then I got a maternity cover in the HR admin team and then was offered a trainee HR officer post at the time and then I've continued my career becoming an HR Business Partner.
So as an HR Business Partner my role is to support schools and units in terms of HR activities so that may be meeting with managers to discuss their strategy, discuss their complement, their workforce plan applications, right down to dealing with any queries an employee in that school unit has.
Could be about their absence, any concerns they've got about contractual terms, things like that.
I also deal with staff immigration for the University so that involves helping people from overseas relocate to St Andrews, sorting out their visa applications for them, dealing with any queries and dealing with any visa extensions within the UK and helping schools and units bring people over to visit to do adhoc research, teaching activities, things like that.
What I enjoy working about in Human Resources is that you get to touch across all aspects of the University.
Dealing with people from different backgrounds.
I've got a really good team within HR.
I enjoy working with my colleagues, we're very supportive of each other and I would say the variety of working here is an attraction.
There's a lot of things you deal with that one day I could be dealing with somebody who's got an issue with their health and they're trying to get back to work.
The next day I could be dealing with a professor who's trying to negotiate the UK immigration system which can be complex for somebody, so it's really the variety of being able to help those people through the concerns they have.
Personally I've been able to deal with a lot of people since I've been working here for the last 19 years and really being able to adapt my style depending on the audience.
For example, I could be doing a presentation to management about HR policies so I adapt my style to that.
I could then also be dealing with somebody on a completely different aspect where it has to be more sympathetic to their situation, understand their perspective, trying to resolve their queries but also being aware of the management aspects and being able to adapt my style and I think over the number of years I've been here being able to change that as I need to depending on the situation I find myself in.
I think St Andrews is a great place, there's plenty to do.
Being from this area I've always spent most of my time outside.
Whether it be now with my kids, take them to play rugby, watch rugby, they play cricket, we enjoy going to the golf course, they really enjoy going to the Himalayas in St Andrews during the summer.
So I would say St Andrews is a good place, it's got a lot of facilities.
I would recommend working at Universities St Andrews because it's an institution that values the work-life balance of its employees, there's a lot of flexibility in terms of being able to manage your outside work activities, you get to meet a range of diverse people from various backgrounds and as I've shown it can be a career for a long period of time or it can be a step towards something else.
Dr Shruti Narayanswamy, Head of Entrepreneurial Education at the International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute, came to St Andrews in 2015 for a PhD on women’s cinema-going in India and has since become a key figure in enhancing creative learning experiences.
She now leads innovative programmes that empower staff and students to take intellectual risks, including the university’s distinctive Vertically Integrated Projects initiative.
Shruti values the blend of global diversity and close-knit community at St Andrews, and finds purpose in making a meaningful impact through education and collaboration.
I am Dr Shruti Narayanswamy.
I am the Head of Entrepreneurial Education in IELLI, I-E-L-L-I, it sounds like the beginning of a song or something, but it's the International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute.
I came to St Andrews in 2015 to pursue my PhD as a student and then I transitioned to becoming a staff member in 2020.
I came to St Andrews because I was looking for opportunities to pursue my research which was on women's cinema-going in India in the 1920s to 1940s and St Andrews offered a really wonderful opportunity for research supervision with Professor Tom Rice, who is now a colleague who I teach with, so that's fantastic.
And I also was fortunate to receive funding to pursue my PhD and, of course, when I sort of did my research it just looked like a really lovely community to join.
I joined a cohort of other international PhD students so I just found a really welcoming community here.
I am currently the Head of Entrepreneurial Education.
So, as part of that role, I oversee a lot of current programmes which are designed to, to put it very simply, my job is to help support our staff and students be more creative, take more risks within not just their teaching and their learning, within their modules but also their overall student experience with us.
So, I oversee a lot of co-curricular programmes, research internships, skills development initiatives but also I'm the Deputy Director of our vertically integrated projects programme which is our pride and joy, if I would say so myself.
So, these are a really exciting group of modules which are actually research led credit bearing modules where students and staff work together on active research projects and it's only one of three programmes of its kind in the UK as well.
Being able to work somewhere that is quite small and intimate and then you really get a sense of community here.
But also, we have 9,000 students from so many different parts of the world, so it feels a bit like I'm getting the best of both, getting to feel, you know getting to be somewhere that where I feel like I get to meet so many different people with so many different experiences but also if I just want to escape the beach is you know, four minutes away and I can walk there.
I'm also a runner so you know being able to be somewhere where I can go for just a lovely run and just sort of unwind a bit that's really special.
Everyone I meet here has a really passionate sense of wanting to support our students and wanting to build up that fantastic student experience and everyone contributes to it in different ways, but that sense of how, you know, we're doing well but how do we keep doing even better every single day in big and small ways – that sense is very tangible.
So, I'm the kind of person that I...
you know, my job will never just be my job for me.
I need to wake up feeling like what I do matters, that what I do is making a genuine and positive impact on people's lives, even if it's just in small ways.
I'm the kind of person for whom it's important that my job is making a difference and I really enjoy working with people who share that feeling and I think that's what comes through very strongly to me.
Dr Amritesh Singh, an associate lecturer in Academic English and TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages), shares how his inspiring university tutors led him to a career in education and eventually to St Andrews, where he values the institution’s commitment to teaching excellence and holistic student experience.
As programme director for postgraduate international education, he highlights the rich, diverse student body and the transformative learning environment it creates.
Amritesh enjoys the unique blend of energy and tranquillity in St Andrews and recommends it to anyone passionate about teaching, community, and meaningful academic work.
Hi, my name is Amritesh Singh, my pronouns are he, him.
I'm an associate lecturer in academic English and TESOL [Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages] at the International Education and Lifelong Learning Institute.
I joined St Andrews in July 2021.
So why I was attracted to St Andrews has a lot to do with why I found myself in this profession, which is because of the tutors that I had at uni.
They knew when to be kind and caring, and yet they also knew when to be fiercely intelligent, when to push me and when to nurture me.
And I wanted to be in an environment where I could model myself and them.
St Andrews, with its reputation for teaching excellence and steadfast commitment to holistic student experience, suggested itself to me as my natural habitat.
I was utterly thrilled when I got that role.
And to be honest, I still am.
So in my current role, I serve as the programme director for all taught postgraduate programmes in international education.
And there are various elements to my role.
And each element kind of coincides with different points in the student life cycle from admissions right up to graduation.
And by far, this is one of the most exciting periods in the academic calendar because, I mean, at the moment, I believe we have students from 50, over 50 countries studying on our programmes.
No words can do justice to the energy and the richness and thought that this diversity brings to our learning environment.
Because you see, when you have students with vastly disparate lived experiences from sundry contexts, then lecture and seminar questions cease to be dry academic inquiries, or dull essay or dissertation titles.
They become the means through which all of us staff and students grow, both personally and professionally.
What I enjoy the most about working in St Andrews, that's a really hard one.
And that's because there's so many things that one finds to take delight in in St Andrews.
I think the first thing to remember is that St Andrews is a university town.
So there's an electric rhythm to life over here, particularly during term time.
So you have that, you know, the energy and the bustle of a university town on the one hand.
And you have these beautiful, serene and tranquil beaches.
I don't know of any other place that has a sort of fluid harmony between energy and tranquillity that St Andrews has.
Why would I recommend working at the university?
Well, if you are passionate about learning and teaching, if you care about forging, genuine, authentic relationships with your colleagues and your students alike.
And if you're looking for a university that has found the sweet spot between maintaining centuries-old tradition and leading innovation, then St Andrews is the place for you.
It most certainly is for me.
Karen Laing, who became Director of Sustainability Transformation in March 2025, reflects on her journey at the University of St Andrews from Accounts Assistant in 2007 to leading sustainability efforts across the institution.
She values the University's supportive and collaborative environment, where diverse teams work together on meaningful change and where she has been able to grow through training and development opportunities.
Karen also appreciates the unique charm of St Andrews, its vibrant mix of people, and the chance to enjoy the outdoors as part of her work-life balance.
So, my name is Karen Laing.
I am about to move into the Director of Sustainability Transformation role from 1 March 2025.
I work in the Business Transformation Unit and I joined the University in January 2007 as an Accounts Assistant.
So, what attracted me to the role at the University initially was the location of the University.
I also was aware of the positive reputation the University had and I also had friends working at the University who spoke very positively about the University as an employer.
In my new role that I'm moving into as Director of Sustainability Transformation, I will be responsible for operationalising the University's sustainability strategy, overseeing the change programme that's associated with that and embedding sustainability right across the University.
It's a really interesting place to work, great team of people all very professional, hardworking, dedicated to making the University a better place.
It's a real mix of backgrounds and personalities which brings a great dynamic to the team.
The type of work we do in Business Transformation, we get to engage with different stakeholders at all levels, right across the institution and really learn about how the University operates.
The University is a really collaborative place to work, it's got some really great people who are very passionate about what they do, it's great to be able to support that work and feel like you're part of that bigger picture and also lots of opportunities that come along with working at the University.
I started as an accounts assistant in the Finance team and then moved on to managing the Accounts Payable team.
I then transitioned over into the change space and helped build the Business Transformation unit, progressing then into managing the Business Transformation portfolio and then from March moving into my new role as Director of Sustainability Transformation.
Working in Finance, I was given the opportunity to engage with quite a lot of change projects across the University which opened that door for me to move over into that space and I've also had a lot of training and development to progress through those roles all supported by the University whether that's been internal or external development.
So, there's a real mix of different people in St Andrews: staff, tourists, students, locals, all located in quite a small town which creates a really unique atmosphere.
And as someone who loves the outdoors, there's so many amazing places and spaces.
I love going walking in St Andrews and it's great to get that opportunity either outwith or within working hours, to take advantage of that.
I would recommend working for the University as they are a really great employer and get lots of opportunities to progress your career if you want to take advantage of them.
Professor Kevin Lala, who joined the University of St Andrews in 2002 from Cambridge, is a behavioural and evolutionary biologist and the EDI faculty lead for Science and Medicine.
He values the University’s supportive environment, academic freedom, and commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion—highlighting the opportunity to teach a module on the science of race and racism.
Kevin praises St Andrews as an ideal place to live and raise a family, noting its safety, strong community, and excellent work-life balance, which has also benefited his wife, now a fellow professor at the University.
So, my name is Kevin Lala.
I'm a professor in the School of Biology.
I came here in 2002 from Cambridge.
I was initially a reader but was promoted very quickly to professor.
I was attracted to the University by its strong reputation in my area of science.
There were actually several members of staff in the University who worked on related issues, and I liked the idea of being surrounded by other people with similar academic interests with whom I could interact regularly, and who had very good reputations.
As a professor in the School of Biology, I undertake research and teaching in behavioural and evolutionary biology.
But I'm also the EDI faculty lead for Science and Medicine, and that means I devote a considerable portion of my time to try and improve the lived experience of staff and students within the University.
That's something I find very rewarding.
I'm very conscious of the fact that it's not always easy for people from less privileged backgrounds or with particular personal characteristics to feel comfortable or flourish in large institutions like universities.
I like the fact that this University seems to recognise that and is actively trying to address it.
I like the fact that it's put EDI as one of the central pillars of what it stands for.
Over the years, I've got a lot of pleasure out of my research.
I really appreciate the fact that the University has given me the time, the resources, the facilities to do my research.
But I also really enjoy my teaching, and I appreciate the fact that I've been free to teach the topics which are important to me.
So, for example, I now teach senior honours — that's a fourth-year module — called The Science of Race and Racism, which explains to the students why scientific racism is wrong.
I think it's fantastic that I have the freedom to do that, and I can get together with academic colleagues who are like-minded and we can put on a module on a topic which is really important and which the students really appreciate.
Since joining the University, my career has gone very smoothly.
I joined in 2002.
Within three years, I was promoted to Professor.
A few years after that, I was elected to a National Academy.
I'd like to think that anybody at the University who is good at research will be rewarded and will get the promotions and the recognition that they merit.
My favourite thing about living in St Andrews is I love the fact that I can walk to work, or I can cycle to work.
Or even if I drive, it only takes five or ten minutes.
I never get stuck in traffic.
I never have a problem parking.
I'd recommend the University of St Andrews because it has an excellent, strong reputation.
But it's also a place where you can feel comfortable, where people are friendly, and you can feel supported.
So, I relocated to St Andrews from the University of Cambridge.
It was no problem really.
It was a challenging time in my life — this was my first academic job, but I'd also just got married and was just starting a family.
But the transitions all went pretty smoothly.
Actually, shortly after my son,  my first child, was born, my wife, who's also an academic, also got a job at the University of St Andrews in another department.
And, well, she's now a professor here too.
One of my favourite things about the University of St Andrews is it really is a great place to raise a family.
It's safe.
It's secure.
You feel comfortable here.
It's an educated place, a cultured place, where the people are really friendly.
Katrina works as a cleaner at College Gate and was drawn to the role at the University of St Andrews for its flexible hours, which allow her to balance work with caring responsibilities.
She enjoys being part of a friendly, diverse Estates team and values the opportunity to meet a wide range of people from different cultures and backgrounds across the University.
Katrina also appreciates the wider community spirit, learning opportunities, and the beauty of St Andrews and its surroundings.
My name is Katrina, and I work for Estates at College Gate.
The main attraction for me for the job at the University was having the flexible hours.
It made it easier for me to break up my work and my home life, looking after my mum.
I am a cleaner at College Gate.
We keep the building nice and fresh for all the academic staff that come in.
There are lots of people that come through for meetings and interviews, so we just keep things running smoothly while we're there.
It's really good to work for Estates.
We've got a really great team.
We get to meet lots and lots of people—not just the cleaners, but also the janitors, academic staff, and students.
I think the University itself is so diverse.
You get to meet so many really great people.
It's nice to meet people from different places, with different views on life itself, on work, on family, and from different countries.
It's great to meet people who don't actually come from the UK, and to hear their views on what they think the UK is like, and how you would think of their country.
It's quite nice to have that sort of diversity, not just from where you work, but from the whole of the University.
You get a great diverse section of people.
Other than the cleaning, there are different clubs that we get invited to join.
There are also different meetings that we can go to.
You can also study as well, so that's quite good.
St Andrews is absolutely beautiful.
There are so many things to see.
Bus routes are great as well – to take you over to Dundee or up to Anstruther.
You can go and see all the different sites.
There's lots to do, especially if you're a student in St Andrews, and there are lots of sights that you can go and see round about.
Nick McVie, a Business Intelligence Developer at the University of St Andrews, transitioned from a previous role as a chef and now supports various units by analysing data and creating visualisations for everything from student numbers to carbon footprint tracking.
He values the supportive team, wide variety of work, and professional development opportunities, including a graduate apprenticeship in data science.
Nick also appreciates the peaceful, family-friendly environment of St Andrews, where he and his children are thriving.
I'm Nick.
I work as a Business Intelligence Developer at the Planning Unit for the University.
I provide a service to all the different units by analysing data.
I was already working for the University before this role as a chef.
So I knew it was quite a nice place to work.
There are no unreasonable expectations or anything.
When this job came up, I was already looking at doing an online degree in data science.
This job lets me do data science while doing a real job as well.
It's a really good environment to work in.
There’s lots of different data I work with.
It's mainly data and applications.
For example, working out how many new students we're going to have next year, and getting that data into a format other people can use.
Some days I'm doing that.
Other days I'm working on looking at the University's carbon footprint and what's going on with that.
I create lots of visualisations that are used by people all over the University – from thermal office workers up to the Principal's Office.
I really like the variety of things to do.
There's a lot of different types of data to work with.
We've got different tools to use, so I’ve got that too.
It's a small team, but we all get on really well.
There's plenty of support from each other.
I learn by seeing what other people are doing and contributing to different projects.
I also interact with people outside the department.
There’s a lot of different people to meet and things to work on.
It feels like a safe place to work.
I know my job is secure.
I've got plenty of chances for professional development at the University.
There are internal training courses.
I'm doing a graduate apprenticeship, so I spend one day a week studying at another university to improve my skills.
There's lots of encouragement to get better at what I'm doing.
As I improve, I’ll be able to progress within the University too.
When I started my current role, I didn’t know an awful lot about data.
The team has been really supportive.
They've taken me through different aspects of the University's data.
I like seeing things from different people's points of view.
People in Registry have gone through student data with me.
It’s about getting comfortable with that and the different tools we use.
I've definitely learned a lot – working with other people, handling different data, and understanding how different people think and use it.
The things I like about St Andrews: it's a nice, quiet, peaceful place.
It feels very safe.
There’s a lot to do with my children on the weekends.
I’d recommend working for the University.
It’s a nice environment that feels very supportive.
There aren’t any unreasonable pressures.
The work is interesting.
I’m given plenty of time to do it, and the support is there if I’m unsure about anything.
I've got children and they're getting on really well here.
There are plenty of things for them to do – like the St Columba's School in Cupar, which is great.
It's a small school and the teachers there are brilliant.
They’re both in swimming lessons too.
They’re getting on really well and always have good things to say about it.
Samantha Dixon, School Manager for the Schools of Classics and Earth and Environmental Sciences, has worked at the University of St Andrews since 2006, progressing through a range of administrative roles across departments.
Her career journey, from Receptionist to School Manager, has been supported by internal development opportunities like the Evening Degree, Aurora Programme and various training schemes.
Samantha values the flexibility to move between roles, the strong relationships she’s built across the University, and the unique benefits of living and working in the welcoming and scenic town of St Andrews.
My name is Samantha Dixon.
I am the School Manager for the School of Classics and School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, so split across the two schools.
I started at the University in 2006.
I'd worked a lot in the hotel trade, so I wanted to get more into an administration role and this job came up at the University.
I live in St Andrews, so I thought, why not go for it and obviously was successful.
I'm the School Manager for the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences and School of Classics.
I was on a secondment prior to this as School Manager to Geography and Sustainable Development and Classics.
The role looks after the financial side of the school, the operations, the budget, it supports the head of school.
Obviously heads of school change every three to four years, so it's good having that School Manager role that can then continue with the budget, knowing what's been happening in the school, how to move it forward, as well as the strategic planning side of the school.
So working across the two departments, obviously both are different, one's an art school, one's a science school.
The School of Classics have been in since 2017, so I understand how the teaching works, how the budgets work.
Working in Earth and Environmental Sciences has been, I only started in September, so I'm still trying to get my head around the lab accounts, lab work, field work, the teaching side of things.
I think for me, having, going through the administration progression route, it's the flexibility, I know you have to apply for the jobs, but it's the flexibility of being able to apply for the jobs within different units and schools.
I've worked in the Principal's Office, I've worked in the School of English, I've worked in Registry, and working in those areas has developed me more to understand the University as a whole, but also I tend to be the go-to person that people come to when they have questions because I do have that knowledge and experience.
I think it's good, and the mix of people you meet along the way, I've built up such great relationships with people outside and within the University.
My career has progressed from, as I said, I was a receptionist in the Principal's Office, I then went to an administrator in the School of English.
While I was in the Principal's Office, I actually got the opportunity to work as part of REF, so I worked in the Research Office dealing with academics, dealing with the paperwork that needed for REF.
After English, I then moved on to the Academic Data Team, so looking after all the student records from incoming to outgoing, doing all the reporting for external companies.
I also worked across teams, I worked with the undergraduate team, worked with the postgraduate teams, just making sure that student records were up to date, all the data was correct.
Then getting us to comment with collaborations and study abroad, which then led to a further job, a permanent position in collaborations and study abroad, so dealing with inbound and outbound students, but also getting the chance to develop an online system for applications for outbound students rather than the paper form, so that got developed and I was on that board.
Then, as I said, going to Classics and then developing myself through Classics.
I've done the Passport to Management, Passport to Administration through the University.
I did the Evening Degree while I was working at St Andrews, got that opportunity, so I got my Bachelor of Science in 2018 and then being part of the Aurora Programme last year.
So what I love about the location of the University is it's a great wee town.
I've been here since 2000 in St Andrews.
I live in St Andrews, all my friends are in St Andrews, you can walk down the street and say "hi" to different people that you've obviously met through the University or outside the University.
And yeah, you've got three beaches, perfect for walking away at lunchtime just to clear your head.
Yeah, it's a good location.
I'd recommend working at St Andrews.
It is a great place to work, you meet a lot of amazing people that can help you with networking, develop your skills and get the opportunity to work in various different departments.
I think that's been a really good bonus for me, is understanding how the University works by working in the various different departments and dealing with different people.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/jobs/university-structure:
The University of St Andrews is comprised of a number of Academic Schools and Departments which are organised into the four Faculties of Arts, Divinity, Medicine and Science.
Each School is led by a Head of School and supported by academic and professional staff, with additional support provided by the University's professional services units .
Find out more on the governance page.
Learn more about the University’s rich history, traditions, high student satisfaction and other facts and figures .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/jobs/our-people-strategy:
Our people strategy is shaped by our values, our commitment to social responsibility, and the dynamic environment we operate in.
This includes a competitive labour market, evolving skills requirements, technological change, and changes in employee expectations.
To address these challenges, we’ve identified five key strategic priorities that are vital to delivering the University strategy.
We want to attract the best people from a broad range of backgrounds through a modern and inclusive approach to recruitment.
We want to provide opportunities for all staff to develop their skills and careers and contribute to a high performing culture.
We want to build a stronger culture of engagement in which staff have the opportunity to be involved in decisions that affect them and feel that their achievements and wider contributions are recognised and valued.
We want to ensure a strategic approach to workforce planning, underpinned by effective and inclusive leadership, which ensures everyone’s contribution counts and supports current and future resilience.
Find out more about our People Strategy.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/jobs/why-join-us/edi:
We are proud to foster a welcoming and inclusive community where everyone can thrive.
We believe that creating a culture of equality, diversity and inclusion is a shared responsibility.
Every student and staff member plays a vital role in making this vision a reality.
Our Diverse Action Plan outlines the steps we will take over the next five years to achieve this goal.
This plan is built around key enablers that drive meaningful and lasting change:
As part of our commitment to inclusivity, our staff networks create supportive spaces where colleagues can connect, share experiences and socialise.
These networks are open to all staff and bring together those with shared circumstances or characteristics.
Our staff networks include:
These groups offer a welcoming community where everyone can feel supported and valued.
>> Maddy: My name is Maddy Haywood.
>> Rebecca: And I'm Rebecca Smith.
>> Maddy: I wanted to find a community that would be easy to talk to about the difficulties of being a full-time employee and autistic.
>> Rebecca: Our network includes staff with disabilities, including physical differences like mobility issues and limb loss, hidden or invisible differences including neurodiversity such as ADHD, autism, dyslexia and dyspraxia, learning disabilities, sensory differences or loss, hearing loss or deaf, and mental health and chronic illness conditions, whether or not you use the word disability to describe your differences.
>> Maddy: The network is a really lovely and supportive group of people.
Alongside our Diverse Action Plan, we actively develop and implement targeted plans to create an inclusive and supportive environment for all staff.
We collaborate with sector-wide organisations, such as AdvanceHE, to deliver specialised development programmes that promote equality and diversity.
In March 2024, the University of St Andrews received a prestigious institutional silver Athena Swan award in recognition of its continued efforts to advance gender equality across the University.
Our Athena Swan implementation group is responsible for implementing and monitoring the Athena Swan action plan.
In September 2024, the University of St Andrews achieved a Race Equality Charter (REC) bronze award in recognition of its work to advance race equality.
Our REC monitoring and action implementation team (REC MAIT) is responsible for overseeing the implementation and progress of our action plan.
We are also taking steps to enhance inclusivity for LGBTQI+ individuals and those with disabilities.
In addition to our annual assessments of institutional practices, we are currently developing targeted disability and LGBTQI+ plans to further support our goal of creating the most inclusive and supportive environment for all staff.
Since 2014, we have supported women in advancing their leadership journeys through the Aurora Advance HE Leadership programme.
Since 2016, we have been supporting BAME staff develop and progress in leadership roles through the Advance HE Diversifying Leadership programme.
Learn more about our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI).

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/university-strategy:
World-leading | Diverse | Digital | Sustainable | Entrepreneurial
"Great universities constantly move forward.
As we publish our University’s refreshed Strategic Plan 2022-2027, there is war in Europe, the long tail of Covid lingers, the climate crisis begs ever more urgent intervention, digital technology signals continuing profound changes for the way we live and work, major constitutional and cultural questions are being asked in this country and others, and Western Europe is enduring a cost-of-living and energy crisis.
Universities exist for the pursuit of truth and scholarship, but in executing that privilege, we must also serve.
Rarely have the communities on our doorstep, and further afield, been in greater need of the public good done by the power and application of world-class research and teaching.
Rarely has it been more critical that universities maintain the courage to speak truth to power.
Crises bring discomfort, but they also bring ambition, and hunger for change.
This is what drives our dynamism.
By our scholarship, we should want to change the world, not expect others to change it for us.
This refreshed Strategy therefore develops the World-Leading, Diverse and Entrepreneurial themes, of our existing strategy, and brings forward two others for a fast-changing world, Sustainable and Digital.
All are underpinned by our continuing commitment to Social Responsibility.
It describes how we will change to invest in key areas of research and teaching and strategic appointments; leverage our international partnerships to widen influence; make smart use of digital technology to bring people together to share knowledge and ideas; foster an inclusive and compassionate culture and become more diverse; become a role model for how people and ideas can move seamlessly between academia, industry, and the wider world; model the solutions and behaviours humanity will need to tackle the climate crisis.
It has been produced in partnership and consultation with our staff and students, and will guide the decisions, policies, and investments the University requires to bring the intellectual power of our community to the great challenges of this age, and to maintain the distinctive excellence of our research and teaching.
Our remarkable students and staff are the lifeblood of St Andrews.
It is their energy, vision and momentum this Strategy aims to support, to free them to use knowledge, ideas, and potential for the benefit of all."
Professor Dame Sally Mapstone FRSE
The refreshed University Strategy 2022-2027 is the result of close consultation with our Schools, Professional Service Units, and students at all levels.
It will guide the decisions, policies, and investments the University makes over the next five years.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/faculties:
When you apply for an undergraduate degree at the University of St Andrews, you will apply to a specific degree programme.
However, your admission will be to one of the University's four Faculties, each led by a Dean:
The University's Schools and Departments all belong to one of the four Faculties.
Most of the subjects you study during your time at the University will be offered by the Schools within your own Faculty, so you should choose to undertake a degree from a Faculty whose offered academic subjects interest you most.
Some subjects are offered in both the Faculties of Arts and Science.
These cross-faculty subjects are:
Where a subject is available as both a Bachelor of Science (BSc) and a Master of Arts (MA) degree, the content of the subject is the same irrespective of Faculty .
Though you will likely belong to the same Faculty throughout your career at the University, many students take modules offered by several Schools.
Only students within the Faculty of Medicine can take Medicine modules.
The Faculty of Arts offers a variety of modular programmes that will lead to a Master of Arts (MA) degree.
The Faculty of Divinity offers programmes that can lead to a Bachelor of Divinity (BD), a Master of Arts (MA) or a Master of Theology (MTheol) degree.
The Faculty of Medicine currently offers two options to study medicine: a BSc Honours in Medicine (leading to an MBChB/MBBS at partner medical schools), and an MBChB graduate-entry programme, run jointly with the University of Dundee.
The Faculty of Science offers modular programmes that can lead to a number of Honours degrees in Science, including a BSc, MBiochem, MChem, MGeol, MMath, MPhys, and MSci.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/art-history:
Study in one of the largest and most dynamic art history departments worldwide
An Art and Research Project Exploring the Lived Experience of the Human Body.
The Complete University Guide 2026.
A continuing commitment to gender equality and diversity.
School of Art History University of St Andrews 79 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AL
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2399 Email: arthist@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/biology:
86% of research carried out by the School of Biology is world-leading or internationally excellent.
School of Biology University of St Andrews Biomedical Sciences Research Complex St Andrews KY16 9ST
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3602 Email: biology@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-school:
Developing globally-minded leaders with the ambition, knowledge and skills to create a more prosperous and sustainable world.
​
Stay informed about groundbreaking research, student achievements and faculty contributions across the field, from policy insights to innovative studies.
From market analyses to emerging trends, see how our department is influencing both theory and practice in global finance.
Find out about how our research helps build sustainable and equitable futures in organisations of all kinds.
Discover how our world-class programmes can shape your future by registering your details today for personalised information about the University of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/chemistry:
Inspiring the next generation.
Building the future.
Providing impact and innovation for society.
Chemistry delivers.
Meet the members of the School of Chemistry.
Discover your undergraduate and postgraduate options.
EaStCHEM combines Scotland’s two leading Chemistry research schools.
Inspiring new generations of scientists through public engagement.
Creating an inclusive environment for all.
The highest ever total of 110 students graduated with an Honours degree in chemistry from St Andrews in 2025 as well as 29 postgraduates with a MSc or PhD.
A total of over 80 students graduated with an Honours degree in chemistry from St Andrews in 2024 as well as around 20 postgraduates with a MSc or PhD.
A total of 91 students graduated with an Honours degree in chemistry from St Andrews in 2023 as well as 18 postgraduates with a MSc or PhD.
School of Chemistry University of St Andrews North Haugh St Andrews KY16 9ST
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3800 Email: chemistry@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/classics:
With outstanding research and internationally renowned academics, discover why the School of Classics is top-ranked in the UK.
Parmenides: New Perspectives, edited by Alex Long and Barbara Sattler, was published by Oxford University Press in July 2025.
From the publisher’s website: Parmenides is one of the most widely studied and...
The School of Classics is pleased to offer four online careers sessions, each lasting an hour, where alumni will share their experiences of working in different professional sectors.
The events take place in the week...
The School of Classics at the University of St Andrews is pleased to offer a scholarship to a 2025 entrant postgraduate research (PhD) Classics student for the duration of their three-year course, with the aim of...
School of Classics University of St Andrews Swallowgate Butts Wynd St Andrews KY16 9AL
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2600 Email: classics@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/computer-science:
Computer science is more important than ever.
Be part of building a more intelligent world through computing technology.
Throughout July, the research group Open Virtual Worlds from the School of Computer Science was involved in digitalising the archaeological artefacts, historical sites, and natural landscapes in collaboration with their important partner, Timespan Museum in Helmsdale, Highlands.
Two PhD students, Junyu Zhang and Sharon Pisani, who are researching digital heritage and sustainability, were using 360 […]
Congratulations to Dr Di Wu for an outstanding achievement of third place in the inaugural IEEEÂ  IoT PhD thesis competition.
Di’s thesis, “Distributed Machine Learning on Edge Computing Systems” truly stood out among the impressive nominations.
The judging panel, comprising leading experts in the field, meticulously evaluated each submission based on the following criteria: Problem […]
11.30am – 12.00pm followed by “Ask Me Anything” in Jack Cole Coffee Area 12.00pm-1.00pm 3rd September 2025 JC 1.33A/B Join us for Innovation Insights, an interactive session designed to showcase how the University of St Andrews Entrepreneurship Centre supports staff and students to turn ideas into real-world innovation and impact.
The session will introduce the […]
School of Computer Science University of St Andrews Jack Cole Building North Haugh St Andrews KY16 9SX
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3253 Email: admin-cs@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/divinity:
Find out what this world-class department has to offer students and scholars.
Be part of a 500-year history that continues to shape the future.
St.
Mary's was founded in 1538 by a papal bull and really part of an attempt to reform the Catholic Church in Scotland, bring it more up to date, bring in influences from humanism.
It all came though a little bit too late and of course in 1560, the Reformation came in Scotland and the then Principal of St Mary's went with the reformers.
The buildings of St.
Mary's where students are still taught and lecturers have their room are essentially those which were there from the from the beginning from 1538.
It straddles the Reformation and it hasn't been that much changed really since then.
There are a variety of courses on offer at St.
Mary's.
You can have theology courses like the religious world of Dante and medieval monastic spirituality.
There are also biblical studies courses such as the atonement and the Gospel of Matthew in Greek.
In third and fourth year at least you can get to know staff much better than in first and second year.
You have smaller classes and really you can be in conversation with experts on a particular issue or topic.
Which is a privilege.
Graduates from St.
Mary's will go into a variety of careers some in teaching some in academia and further study.
Some in the ministry but also some in industries like financial and professional services.
I have come to St.
Mary's because of its reputation as a place where there is a real scholarly community a place by the edge of the sea where people go to do something special together.
And I think that's certainly been borne out in my experience these last one and a half years.
I think because we've decided to focus on divinity and theology as a living tradition.
We all feel that this is a tradition that we stand in and take forward together.
And the sense of taking something forward together, gives us immense energy and also friendship.
I think.
So when I teach I see my students certainly as people to whom I can impart knowledge.
But I also see them as partners in an enterprise people off whom I can bounce ideas about new book projects, about things that I'm working on, about the questions that I care about because I assume that they care about them as well.
Mary's College society is the social side of the college.
We hold regular lunches on a Friday which is a great chance to catch up with people as well as pub nights every other Monday and every year we hold a ball.
There's a really good vibe among the students and everyone likes hanging out together in the common room.
Pretty much everyday drinking tea and coffee and eating all of the biscuits.
Mary's College is a divinity school but it's very open and inclusive to people of all faiths and none.
And some students do choose to go to our weekly college worship services.
Awarded for outstanding PhD thesis
2026 Complete University Guide - Theology & Religious Studies
Research on Ancient Inka string writing featured in The Atlantic, IFLScience, BBC Science In Action, and Late Night Live
St Mary's College School of Divinity University of St Andrews St Andrews KY16 9JU
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2850 Email: divinity@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/earth-sciences:
Our research spans the formation of planets to climate change, and ranks 3rd in the UK for world-leading research.
Our teaching programmes have outstanding student satisfaction and graduate employability.
Dr Claire Cousins' research activities feature in two BBC documentaries
Congratulations to Dr Will Hutchison who has received a student led award at the University’s Teaching Excellence Awards!
Will is the recipient of the 2025 Outstanding Dissertation, Thesis, or Project Supervisor (UG)
The 2025 FRESH symposium will be focused on Mining Battery Metals: What, how, where, sustainable?
School of Earth and Environmental Sciences University of St Andrews Bute Building Queen's Terrace St Andrews KY16 9TS
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3940 Email: earthsci@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/english:
Study English literature and Creative Writing in a friendly, supportive and intellectually stimulating environment with a wide range of research topics to choose from.
Ranked 1st in the UK in The Times University rankings 2025.
I'm Dr Kristen Treen and I'm a lecturer in English here at the University of St Andrews St Andrews is one of the first universities in the world to teach English and today the School of English enjoys an international reputation as a centre for academic research, literary creativity and world class teaching.
Our lecturing staff includes researchers and writers whose work takes in a vast array of topics and interests from older Scots literature Renaissance romance and romantic women writers to Victorian poetry, post-colonial theory and detective fiction.
The School of English is home to award-winning poets, playwrights and novelists - practitioners who teach creative writing across the board.
The English degree at St Andrews is as diverse as it is rigorous.
During their first two years, our undergraduates study a very broad set of authors and time periods our four sub-honours modules are designed to give students an excellent working knowledge of English literature.
Before they go on to specialize at honours level, students can expect to cover texts from the medieval and early modern periods and the long 18th century right the way through to modern and contemporary fiction, poetry and drama.
In the first year we were doing EN1003 so the first broad module that we did.
I think that was Culture and Conflicts: 19th and 20th Century Literature that was, I think, initially just aiming to give us the knowledge of close reading and as many different authors and genres as we possibly could in the space of 12 weeks, and it was definitely beneficial to do such a sort of a broad grounding because I think a lot of the text I just never would have gone there myself like Lonely Londoners – I never would have gone there but…
I absolutely loved it - I think that is probably my favourite books.
That's one of my favourite books now, it's amazing!
I re-read it!
I first read the list of texts we were going to be studying and there were barely any that I knew.
I was just waiting for Wuthering Heights week, like this week I’m going to know what I’m doing and actually, I wasn't, you know, that wasn't my favourite text to study, so it was, you know, it was really nice to kind of get out your comfort zone because I'm definitely a bit of a creature of habit - it's Austin and Hardy really.
But I felt like that with Jekyll and Hyde - I studied that a few times before I was like I'm so ready for this and then like when we went into the lecture that took it from a completely different perspective from what we've been taught.
It did it from a sexuality perspective that you don't get in secondary school, that it really challenged my views.
It's really good.
So in the second semester we studied Explorers and Revolutionaries from 1680 to 1830 and I found that really interesting because there were quite a few texts that otherwise, again that you were saying, I wouldn’t really have come across or read.
During the first two years of the English degree our students will also experience a whole range of teaching methods and complete several different forms of assessment, while our small group tutorials and close reading exercises give students the opportunity to find their voices and really hone their critical skills, lectures and set essay tasks introduce them to the big picture and encourage them to ask big questions.
Tutorials is a very intimate group of people of about five or six and in these groups you can take what you learn in lectures and discuss it and it almost becomes like a group of friends because you’re all really interested in it and you can all like have a really in-depth discussion and have a chance to share ideas.
Yeah, I know, I definitely thought after the first couple of sessions and get to know everyone it's a really nice environment to kind of just share your ideas.
I was quite self-conscious about what people think of what I have to say and stuff but, yeah, it's really nice having a small group.
We only do two coursework essays so I um and in the EN1004 module we did a close reading and a more kind of analytical anyway but and in terms of essays what they're really looking for is no flowery language, like to use your words efficiently because you don't get too many words so basically to write kind of really pinpoint the argument referred to, like, the novel or the context of what you're studying but really to pinpoint the questions or use your words wisely.
What I actually really like is the way that their coursework essays and the exam actually went hand in hand during that so we had, as you said, a close reading and then one on the whole text and how that was also the structure for the exam, yeah.
Yeah and lectures were really good because the great thing about the English school is it puts novels much more in a historical context yeah and you feel like you're studying history so I, for the first time, became acquainted with the idea like the novel is a historical source rather just a piece of fiction.
Yeah.
So it's like old literature is, kind of, essentially a reaction to society or humanity so you're kind of really getting a specific perspective of society a certain time and that's really fascinating, you know?
Yeah exactly, I think that the thing that I really like about the English department is it has a really nice community and I genuinely really like the atmosphere itself and I've always felt very comfortable in lectures and in tutorials.
Yes, and it feels like the students and the staff are very much on the same page.
Yeah, exactly.
They get along really well.
It makes you write inspired to learn when you just you just like really enjoy not only, like, what you're studying and the course itself, but just the general environment and they're teaching staff.
By the time they meet honours in the third and fourth years our students are ready to specialize.
Whether they choose to take English as a single or joint honours degree, they have a huge variety of modules to choose from and among them they'll find offerings in old and Middle English, Celtic, American and world literature's, creative writing and the Victorian novel.
In terms of, sort of, the format, the big difference I think is once you get honours is you're in much smaller classes and the modules get a little more specific than in first and second year and you get a lot more – you get choice in what you're doing whereas in 1st and 2nd year everyone's doing the same things.
Third and fourth year you get to choose from it's like 40 different modules.
Yeah, you can go from Old English, like the very beginnings of the English language, until the 21st century experimental poetry.
Yes, what's so useful at honours is your tutor is an expert in that area so they're able to point you in the direction of all this useful secondary material that they…
Have studied really extensively, yeah.
Yeah, they know inside out.
Yeah, so as well as doing single honours you can do joint honours which I do, so I do English alongside History and I found that really great because they weave so seamlessly into each other.
You can bring knowledge…
Yeah, you can bring a lot of, especially because those subjects are so closely intertwined - you study the periods so extensively in English, yeah, you can bring a lot of knowledge from history into your English modules and vice versa.
Of course, there's no single way of studying English at St Andrews - we offer many different routes into higher study.
All of our students, whether they take the full-time, part-time, or evening degree, enter into their studies as members of the school’s supportive and intellectually stimulating community.
St Andrews is one of the few universities in Scotland that has such a wide range of ways of coming in to study through its flexible learning program and that's… which is how I choose chose to come in as an evening degree student.
Which gave me the opportunity to work full time, but also study in the evening towards, towards a degree.
To do some of the other subjects perhaps you have to think in terms of the flexible learning’s part time degree offering which is again another way that allows people to, to balance the studies with their other commitments in life, whether that's work or family.
We never fail to be delighted about the lectures in particular.
The numbers are much smaller in the evening degree course which made that you had this unprecedented opportunity, really, to be sitting in quite quite a small room, in a quite small number with these experts in their fields of knowledge about subjects and almost have a conversation.
It was a lecture but it was very much a conversation and quite often afterwards the, the lecture would finish and the conversation would continue after afterwards, which I don't think there's many students can have that, have that privilege to do.
And we did really think of it as a privilege.
Here at St Andrews we're also extremely fortunate to have access to a whole host of rare books and manuscripts - a huge archive which is growing all the time and our collections don't just generate new research.
Many tutors and lecturers use them for teaching too so during their time here, our undergraduates may well encounter some of the most remarkable texts in literary history.
Drawing on our resources here in St Andrews and further afield, we pride ourselves on our unique approach to research-led teaching.
From pretty much day one, our students are taught by some of the leading experts in that area or on in that period.
It also means they're exposed to a wide variety of different topics.
We have colleagues who are researching theatrical performance in Scotland, we have colleagues who are researching mermaids, for example, and all of these variety of topics make their way into the teaching syllabus.
We believe in research-led teaching.
For most of our colleagues our teaching and research is very closely aligned together.
As a result, students in the School of English are not just students in an academic department, they're members of an academic community.
You will be part of a wider project which we all share in and in which we are all passionate about, and that is trying to understand the relationship between literature in the world.
There's a great sense of community, I think, yeah, yeah, that was something that I was worried about as well because, before I decided to come here, I was thinking of going to a small, liberal arts college in the United States and this is definitely bigger than a lot of them.
A lot of them would be like 1,600 students and I was worried that there wouldn't really be that same sense of community but I've definitely found it here.
Also it is cozy, I think this is, um, I think you'd be surprised about the amount of things you could do here because I definitely was a little taken aback by, not even University-related, but it really does become a home away from home.
I consider this my home.
We're studying English and we look out the window and here is the sea.
Yeah, it’s lovely.
It's just, you just don't get that in many places, do you?
We walk out this building and then we've got a castle and then a beach.
It’s quite nice.
It's fantastic!
That’s another reason that St Andrews appealed to me, to be honest, and other than the sense of community, and the sense that everyone kind of knows you, you don't feel lost in the same way that I felt lost on open days for other universities.
Oh yeah.
It's also the sense of magic that I think the St Andrews brings.
One of the really unique things about St Andrews that not many universities have is being able to study and subjects like English and History in, like, historic buildings and, like, all the humanities departments very much occupy old buildings and it very much feels like you're kind of where it's at and at the centre of where the stuff was happening at the time.
Yeah, St Andrews, it just has this really nice feel to it and it just, it's really friendly and it's really welcoming, and I remember thinking, like, once I’d come, like two days in and I was like, I can see myself living here.
To find out more please visit the School of English website.
Events at the Edinburgh International Book Festival
Karen Solie's latest collection on Forward Prize shortlist
Last month, two English PGRs travelled to New York to present at the prestigious 19th Conference of the Early Book Society.
School of English University of St Andrews Castle House The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AL
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2666 Email: english@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/film-studies:
Join the Department of Film Studies, internationally renowned for innovative research in global film and media cultures.
Dr Aimaretti will conduct the research project "Global Feminist Methods/Local Interventions: Towards a Non-androcentric Historicisation of Argentine Cinema," in collaboration with Isabel Seguí
This week the Department celebrates our graduating students, including four PhDs.
Lucy Fife Donaldson’s work was selected as joint winner by the jury at Marienbad Film Festival.
Department of Film Studies University of St Andrews 101a North Street St Andrews KY16 9AD
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2206
Undergraduates: ugpafsadmin@st-andrews.ac.uk Postgraduates: pgpafs@st-andrews.ac.uk Research: researchpafs@st-andrews.ac.uk General enquiries: pafs-sch-coord@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/geography-sustainable-development:
Ranked =3rd in the UK by The Times Good University Guide 2025
MRes blue carbon scholarship available.
With immense pride and gratitude, our undergraduate students present the vibrant third issue of the Irvine Atlas Academic Journal: Making Waves.
The GG3210: Remote Sensing module, taught by Dr TJ Young, has been featured in a case study highlighting pedagogic innovation by BlueSky, the UK's leading aerial surveying company.
This fieldwork extended previous work in the Gulf of Kachchh region, to support a large-scale assessment of mangrove soil carbon storage which is currently understudied compared to mangrove forests in other regions.
School of Geography and Sustainable Development University of St Andrews Irvine Building North Street St Andrews KY16 9AL
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3493 Email: gsd@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/graduate-school:
Learn across subject boundaries, develop and apply practical skills, and be part of a vibrant and welcoming postgraduate community.
Over the course of 2025-26, St Leonard’s College will be merging with the Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies to bring together these two areas of postgraduate activity and create the University of St Andrews Graduate School at St Leonard’s College.
This is an exciting initiative to further enhance and develop postgraduate education, research and experience at St Andrews.
The new Graduate School will launch in August 2026, but you may begin to notice some changes to websites, branding or email addresses over this academic year.
Updates will be sent out to all students as the year progresses.
Congratulations to Dr Emilka Skrzypek on her Golden Dandelion Award!
In June, Hanyu Wang, a PhD student in Statistics, attended the fourteenth International Conference on Bayesian Nonparametrics at UCLA.
Phoebe MacIndoe, a PhD student from the School of English and St Andrews Institute for Medieval Studies attended The Early Book Society’s nineteenth Conference between 23 to 27 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/history:
Welcome to the School of History.
Learn more about internationally renowned research and teaching in history at Scotland's oldest university.
Dr Sarah Easterby-Smith co-organised a workshop at the RHS Lindley Library.
John H.
Arnold will be joining the Department of Medieval History, School of History at the University of St Andrews as the Bullough Fellow for the Martinmas semester.
The Department of Medieval History at the University of St Andrews invites applications for the Donald Bullough Fellowship to be taken up during either semester of the academic year 2025-2026.
School of History University of St Andrews St Katharine’s Lodge The Scores St Andrews KY16 9BA
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2900 Email: history@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/lifelong-learning:
IELLI offers postgraduate degrees and training in education, multidisciplinary pathway courses for international students, as well as innovative academic courses and support activities for all learners.
Find out more about the support we offer to existing staff and students, such as our Learning and Writing Centre, pedagogical support for teaching staff, and more.
If you are thinking about applying to our international foundation pathway, summer academic experience course, pre-sessional English or one of our specialist postgraduate qualifications, you can get the information you need here.
Details of recent developments and upcoming events at IELLI
What is IELLI?
How did we form, and what is our vision?
Further information and links such as our Education Blog, Saints Skills and more.
IELLI provides a range of support available to all of our students.
Click the links below to find what's suitable for you.
Email: ielli@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2255

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/international-relations:
The School of International Relations is ranked as the top IR department in Scotland and first in politics in the UK.
The School is recognised globally for its quality teaching, stimulating research, and leading academics.
Professor Phillips O’Brien briefed UK parliamentarians on the Ukraine war, addressing global impacts, European strategies, and conflict resolution, earning recognition for his efforts.
The University of St Andrews is celebrating a remarkable dual achievement, securing the prestigious titles of Scottish University of the Year 2025 and University of the Year for Student Experience 2025.
The School of International Relations is delighted to announce that Dr Laura Mills and Dr Roxani Krystalli have been honoured by the British International Studies Association (BISA) in their list of 2023 prize winners.
School of International Relations University of St Andrews The Arts Faculty Building The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AX
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2938 Email: intrel@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/mathematics-statistics:
Study Mathematics and Statistics in a School globally renowned for its teaching and research.
Pursue your studies and excel in a unique environment which celebrates critical thinking and creative learning for all.
Professor Ursula Martin, Honorary Professor in the School of Mathematics and Statistics, has been appointed a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to science and education in the King’s Birthday
We are now recruiting for a new Chair in Statistics, with closing date 21 July 2025.
The new chair will be part of our world-leading Centre for Research into Ecological and Environmental Modelling (CREEM).
We congratulate School of Mathematics and Statistics staff David Rees Jones and Lars Olsen who have received prestigious awards for their teaching excellence.
School of Mathematics and Statistics University of St Andrews Mathematical Institute North Haugh St Andrews KY16 9SS
General enquiries Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3744 Email: maths@st-andrews.ac.uk
Prospective student enquiries Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2344 Email: maths-admissions@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/modern-languages:
Welcome to the School of Modern Languages.
Internationally renowned research and teaching in languages and comparative literature at Scotland's oldest university.
The School of Modern Languages invites applications for the position of Office Coordinator.
Congratulations to Ana Barazal Barreira, Colette Lawson and Claire Whitehead on their academic promotions
Laura Albertini awarded 2025 Golden Dandelion Prize for commitment to sustainability in the curriculum
School of Modern Languages University of St Andrews Buchanan Building Union Street St Andrews KY16 9PH
Email: modlangs@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2961

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/philosophy:
St Andrews is one of the best places in the world to study philosophy and its history.
The Department of Philosophy at the University of St Andrews welcomes applications from outstanding Early Career Researchers to Fellowships and Schemes for 2025/2026.
Jens Timmermann's new book on Kant and the Supposed Right to Lie is now available online and in print.
The Department is delighted to announce the appointment of Jennifer Saul, Amie Thomasson and Stephen Gardiner.
The Department is delighted to announce that Alice Murphy has been appointed as Lecturer in Philosophy.
Department of Philosophy University of St Andrews Edgecliffe The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AL
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2206 Undergraduates: ugpafsadmin@st-andrews.ac.uk Postgraduates: pgpafs@st-andrews.ac.uk Research: researchpafs@st-andrews.ac.uk General enquiries: pafs-sch-coord@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/philosophical-anthropological-film-studies:
The School of Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies comprises the Departments of Philosophy, Social Anthropology and Film Studies.
The Head of School is Professor James Harris.
For more information about the School, see the Key Roles and About the School pages.
Undergraduates: ugpafsadmin@st-andrews.ac.uk
Postgraduates: pgpafs@st-andrews.ac.uk
Research: researchpafs@st-andrews.ac.uk
General enquiries: pafs-sch-coord@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/physics-astronomy:
New research from the University of St Andrews has found that giant free floating planets have the potential to form their own miniature planetary systems without the need for a star.
Graduation 2025
Undergraduate project prize winners 2025
School of Physics and Astronomy University of St Andrews North Haugh St Andrews KY16 9SS
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3111 Email: physics@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/psychology-neuroscience:
The School of Psychology and Neuroscience is unique in its ability to engage in world-leading research and teaching, which bridges the disciplines of psychology and neuroscience.
Dr Ilary Allodi from the School of Psychology and Neuroscience at the University of St Andrews has been awarded a place on the prestigious EMBO Young Investigators programme.
The EastBio partnership has been awarded funding by UKRI BBSRC to continue providing world-class doctoral training across the life sciences in Scotland, with the University of St Andrews being a major partner.
New research from the University of St Andrews and the University of Copenhagen has harnessed the power of AI to generate new insight into the progression of ALS.
School of Psychology and Neuroscience University of St Andrews St Mary's Quad South Street St Andrews KY16 9JP
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2157 Email: psych@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/social-anthropology:
92% of research carried out by Social Anthropology at the University of St Andrews is world-leading or internationally excellent according to REF2021.
Jules Skotnes-Brown’s Segregated Species: Pests, Knowledge, and Boundaries in South Africa, 1910-1948 has been awarded the Royal Historical Society’s First Book Prize.
Dr Bridget Bradley has been awarded an Impact Innovation Grant for the amount of £12,417 for her project "A Creative Toolkit for Coping with Climate Emotions".
The Department's teaching has been recognised in the recent 1416 Teaching Awards, with Dr Bridget Bradley winning two awards.
Department of Social Anthropology University of St Andrews 71 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AL

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/alumni/stay-connected:
No matter where life takes you after graduation, the Alumni Relations team is here to support you on your journey.
Stay connected with the University by joining our Saint Connect platform and events all over the world, in-person and online.
The University's alumni clubs around the world are here to keep a piece of St Andrews with you wherever life takes you next.
Events for alumni, parents, friends and donors around the world.
Join the networking and mentoring platform exclusively for St Andrews students and alumni.
Meet, mentor and inspire others.
St Andrews in the News and Chronicle.
Whether you want to trace a friend or update your details, it always pays to keep connected.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/alumni/benefits-and-support:
As a graduate of the University of St Andrews, you are entitled to a fantastic range of benefits and support.
These include career support for up to three years after graduation and access to the University Library.
There are also discounts at various shops and businesses, and the opportunity to submit your song to one of our Spotify playlists.
Support for alumni for up to three years after graduation.
See a selection of publications by St Andrews alumni – or submit your own for inclusion on the bookshelf.
Submit your song to one of our Spotify playlists.
Being a SPARC member entitles you to a range of benefits and discounts whenever you return to visit St Andrews.
Take advantage of our unique alumni offers.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/alumni/update-your-details:
Over the years, the University has inevitably lost touch with some of its former students who have forgotten to update us when they have changed address.
If you do not receive our annual alumni magazine, Chronicle , or any other correspondence from the University, then it is likely we do not hold a current postal address for you.
Similarly, if you do not receive the monthly St Andrews in the News e-newsletter, this indicates that Development does not hold a current email address for you.
You may therefore wish to supply us with your email address to enable us to update your record.
SPARC members can update on the SPARC website .
Non-SPARC members can use our online form .
You can email at alumni@st-andrews.ac.uk
or write to:
Alumni Relations Development 91 North Street St Andrews Fife, KY16 9AJ UK
Important: When emailing or writing please provide your subject studied at St Andrews, the year of graduation/leaving and your name at graduation (if different) to help us identify you.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/develop-2/alumni-profiles:
Browse our Alumni Profiles to learn from graduates about career paths, industries and student experiences.
If you would like to feature in our Alumni Profiles, please complete the online form .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/development/alumni/kaleidoscope:
Kaleidoscope Alumni Network (KAN) is an alumni network that celebrates the ethnic and cultural diversity of St Andrews graduates around the world.
All are welcome!
Through a kaleidoscopic lens we can see and – using our agency – change form, patterns and relationships.
Our graduates are successful thought leaders, changemakers and global citizens and our diversity allows us to perceive situations from a multitude of perspectives.
Visit the Kaleidoscope Alumni Network blog , featuring our articles, podcasts, videos, events and more.
Alumni Relations Crawford Building 91 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AJ
Email: stakan@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 47 6161

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/general-council:
Section 6 of the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858, states that the General Council is empowered to "...take into their consideration all questions affecting the wellbeing and prosperity of the University, and to make representations from time to time on such questions to the University Court, who shall consider the same, and return to the Council their deliverance thereon".
The General Council elects the Chancellor of the University, who also holds the role of President of the General Council, and nominates two Assessors to the University Court.
It is consulted on draft Resolutions and Ordinances, and may appoint committees to support it and define their powers, membership and quorum.
The General Council has particular responsibility for commenting on draft Resolutions and Ordinances referred to it by the University Court.
Ordinances and Resolutions that are out for consultation are made available on the Ordinances and Resolutions webpage , and are also sent directly to the General Council Business Committee.
The General Council meets twice yearly in Parliament Hall in St Andrews, on the last Saturday of June and November, where updates and briefings are provided on the activities of the University, and members can meet and exchange news over tea and coffee.
The General Council is supported by its Business Committee and by the Alumni Relations Office.
The current Registrar and Clerk to the General Council is Alastair Merrill, the University’s Vice-Principal (Governance).
You can contact the General Council by:
Convener of the Business Committee of the General Council General Council Office 91 North Street St Andrews KY16 9AJ
Automatic membership of the General Council is granted to various groups of the St Andrews community including all graduates of the University.
The Business Committee brings together representatives from the most active alumni clubs to support and strengthen the relationship between the University and the General Council.
The General Council meets twice a year usually in June and November.
Minutes from previous meetings can be viewed online once approved by the General Council.
The General Council holds responsibility for the appointment of a number of key figures within the University.
The membership of the General Council is governed by ordinance No.
96 of the University of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/community/living:
The town of St Andrews offers a wealth of services and facilities.
The University works hard to maintain a good relationship between all residents — from members of staff and their families, to students and the rest of the local community.
St Andrews residents can benefit from a number of University facilities available to them — even if they do not have a direct connection to the University.
Members of the public and alumni can take out a University Library membership.
Saints Sport Community Membership gives you full access to the main gym, the Saints Fitness class programme and facilities for casual use, including multi-sport courts and pitches, the indoor tennis centre and the climbing wall.
The Music Centre offers the opportunity to perform, listen to or learn about music.
The Byre Theatre hosts a varied and vibrant programme of University events plus professional touring productions of theatre, dance, musicals, music, opera and family performances.
Local residents may apply to the University’s part-time and flexible study courses.
Find out about the events and activities that children can enjoy in St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/chaplaincy/worship:
The University has two chapels: St Salvator's Chapel and St Leonard's Chapel.
These chapels – both of which date back to the 15th century – are the central points for most University services of worship.
Services in the University chapels are organised by the Chaplaincy team, headed up by the Chaplain to the University, the Rev Dr Donald MacEwan.
Students, staff and members of the public are welcome to attend services in the University chapels, whether or not they share the faith of the chapel.
For information about getting married in the University chapels, please take a look at the weddings web pages .
From time to time photography and filming of events and chapel services may take place to share on our social media channels and in future publicity material.
Images will be stored securely on University devices.
No personal details will be saved with these images, although you may be tagged in social media posts.
If you would prefer not to be photographed or filmed, please speak to a member of the Chaplaincy team, preferably in advance.
You can also email chaplaincy@st- andrews.ac.uk .
You also have the right to request that social media images be deleted should you withdraw consent at a future date.
The University invites all visitors to the chapel to share in its on-going life of prayer, whether by taking time to sit and pray, enjoying its silence or its music, or by joining in worship.
St Salvator's Chapel is open for general access Monday to Saturday 9am to 5pm via the cloister entrance.
Sundays outside term time only, 9am - 5pm.
There may be times during these periods when the chapel is not accessible due to chapel bookings and we recommend you check with the Chaplaincy office if you wish to visit the chapel on a particular date and time.
St Salvator's Chapel seats approximately 320.
The pews face each other across the Chapel in collegiate style in the main part, with chairs facing forward in the ante-Chapel, behind a decorative screen.
There is wheelchair access to the Chapel via the north entrance.
Find out about the history of St Salvator's Chapel .
Sunday worship services in St Salvator's Chapel are also available to view on livestream for those unable to attend in person.
View livestream Download the appropriate Order of Service from the list below to enhance your viewing experience and fully take part:
Sunday Worship: Alumni Sunday Worship Service - 29 June 2025 (PDF)
For the Graduation Services livestream link and service orders - please see the 'Graduation Thanksgiving Services' section above.
Join us for our weekly Sunday morning worship service at 11am, held throughout the academic year in both Martinmas Semester and Candlemas Semesters.
Martinmas: 7 September - 14 December 2025 Candlemas: 25 January - 24 May 2026 ( no service on 8 March )
These hour-long services often feature a visiting preacher.
You can find details on upcoming sermons and preachers through the Preacher and Sermon webpage , as well as access to past sermons.
Holy Communion will be offered after the service for those who wish to stay.
Following the service, all are invited to take part in the traditional ‘Pier Walk’ from the Chapel to the harbour.
Wearing gowns is welcome but not required.
Services are held in person and can also be viewed via livestream.
To join the livestream, please refer to the ‘Livestreamed Services’ section for the link.
Chapel Donations: You are welcome to donate both in chapel or online via this page, ' Donation ' Box.
Two-thirds of chapel offerings from the Sunday service are given to charity and one-third goes to the work of the Chaplaincy.
Begin your day with a moment of reflection and peace.
Join us for a short morning prayer service from 8:45 to 8:55 am.
Afterwards, enjoy refreshments at the Chaplaincy (3 St Mary's Place) and connect with others.
Weekly services during term time: Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays
Martinmas Semester: 16 September - 18 December 2025
Note: No services during Independent Learning Week: 21 - 23 October
Join us for a 45-minute service of Evensong, a service of prayer, both spoken and sung by choristers of St Salvator’s Chapel Choir.
Weekly services during term time: Wednesdays and Sundays at 5:30 pm, St Salvator's Chapel
Martinmas Semester: Dates to be confirmed
No services on:
Service of Welcome Sunday 7 September 2025, 11 am Opening Service Sunday 14 September 2025, 11 am
Remembrance Sunday Service Sunday 9 November 2025, 10:50 am
Alumni Carol Service Monday 15 December 2025, 7 pm Founders and Benefactors Sunday Service Sunday 22 February 2026, 11 am
Remembering Service Thursday 26 March 2026, 5:30 pm Easter Sunday Service Sunday 5 April 2026, 11 am
Situated within the grounds of St Leonards School, St Leonard's Chapel is a much smaller and more intimate setting than St Salvator's Chapel.
It seats approximately 60 people, and as it is built in a traditional mediaeval style, pews face each other in collegiate style.
Visitors should note that there is one small step into the Chapel.
St Leonard’s Chapel is accessible by appointment only, which can be arranged through the Chaplaincy office.
However, visitors are warmly invited to attend the following services and meetings.
Find out about the history of St Leonard's Chapel .
A peaceful and reflective end to the day with our Compline Service of night prayer, featuring music, spoken prayers, and moments of silence.
Lasting approximately 30 minutes, this service welcomes people of all faiths, cultures, traditions, and philosophies of life.
Weekly services during term time: Thursdays at 10 pm in St Leonard's Chapel, The Pends.
Martinmas Semester: 18 September to 27 November 2025
No services on: 23 October and 6 November
Orthodox services take place in St Leonard’s Chapel in Greek and English.
Details of when the next Orthodox Liturgies will take place can be found at Orthodox Liturgies .
Commemoration of St Leonard Thursday 6 November 2025, 7:30 pm
Nine Lessons and Carols Saturday 13 December 2025, 8 pm Carols by Candlelight Wednesday 24 December 2025, 2 pm, 4 pm and 6 pm
There are many places for private prayer and meditation in the University, for both students and staff.
St Salvator's Chapel is open from Monday to Saturday, 9am to 5pm during term tim e, and on Sundays, 9am to 5pm outside term time .
Please use the cloister entrance.
Note that the chapel may occasionally be inaccessible due to bookings.
If you are planning a visit, we recommend checking with the Chaplaincy office 48 hours in advance.
For inquiries, please email the Chaplaincy at chaplaincy@st-andrews.ac.uk The Multi-faith space on the third floor in Agnes Blackadder Hall on the North Haugh, accessible with staff and students ID cards.
Please be aware that during the summer, the space may occasionally be unavailable.
The Muslim brothers’ and sisters’ prayer rooms are located on the first floor of the Chaplaincy, Mansefield Building.
The Chaplaincy provides support for students of any faith or philosophy.
The Chaplain, Revd Dr.
Donald MacEwan , and Assistant Chaplains, Revd Giles Dove , Revd Samantha Ferguson and Bill Shackman , offer confidential pastoral appointments .
The Chaplaincy is situated across from the Students’ Association, in the Mansefield Building, providing a welcoming space for multi-faith events, whether they involve worship or social gatherings.
For more information about the building, its uses, and booking details, please visit the Chaplaincy, Mansefield Building webpage.
Contact chaplaincy@st-andrews.ac.uk for more information.
The Christian Union hosts prayer meetings and social events throughout the term.
For more information, please contact the Christian Union directly via Facebook or email christianunion@st-andrews.ac.uk
Meditation sessions organised by the St Andrews Buddhist Meditation Group are held during term time in the Chaplaincy, Lochnagar room.
An up-to-date timetable of events can be found on the Buddhist Meditation Group webpage along with contact details for new members.
Kabbalat Shabbat—Friday Night Prayers (Term Time) Chaplaincy, Lochnagar, 6 pm An egalitarian service with the traditional liturgy and an open discussion of the weekly Torah portion.
For further details please contact Assistant Chaplain, Bill Shackman , bs58@st-andrews.ac.uk or Honorary Lay Jewish Chaplain, Professor Emily Michelson , edm21@st-andrews.ac.uk
Jummah prayers will be held every Friday in the Victory Memorial Hall from 12 September 2025 to 22 May 2026 .
For the latest updates on timings , please check the St Andrews Muslim Student Association (STAMSA) Instagram page.
However, on the following dates, prayers will take place in the Chaplaincy Lochangar Room instead: Summer 2025 : weekly until Friday 6 September 2025.
Martinmas Term:
Between Friday 26 December 2025 and Friday 23 January 2026
Candlemas Term:
Email: chaplaincy@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2866
The Chaplaincy Centre Mansefield University of St Andrews 3 St Marys Place St Andrews KY16 9UY
Chaplaincy Facebook Chaplaincy Companionship blog Chaplaincy Instagram

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/community/weddings:
There are a number of charming venues across the University that can be used for wedding and civil partnership ceremonies.
From the grandeur of St Salvator’s Chapel through to the impressive glamour of Upper and Lower College Hall, the University offers a choice of location for your wedding ceremony, reception or celebrations.
There are a number of locations across the University which are available for wedding and civil partnership ceremonies.
St Salvator’s is the large University chapel on North Street.
In this chapel, you would have the option of adding bell-ringing and a choir to your booking, subject to availability.
It seats approximately 180 guests in the nave with an additional 110 in the ante-Chapel.
The pews face each other across the Chapel in collegiate style in the nave, with chairs facing forward in the ante-Chapel, behind a decorative screen.
The Chapel is equipped with wheelchair access and an induction loop.
For information about the availability of St Salvator's Chapel for wedding ceremonies, please take a look at the Chapel availability web page.
Details of wedding prices and any extra fees for ceremonies in the Chapel can be found on the Chapel price list web page.
The standard price covers the services of the University chaplain, where appropriate, and the University deputy organist; there are extra fees for a choir or bell-ringers.
Guidance on choosing organ music for your wedding can be found on the wedding music web page.
Find out more about the history and architecture of St Salvator's Chapel .
St Leonard’s Chapel is situated within the grounds of St Leonard’s School and is much smaller and more intimate than St Salvator's Chapel.
It seats approximately 50 guests.
It is built in traditional medieval style and, similarly to St Salvator's, the pews face each other across the Chapel in collegiate style.
Wheelchair access is fairly easy.
For information about the availability of St Leonard's Chapel for wedding ceremonies, please take a look at the Chapel availability web page.
Details of wedding prices for wedding ceremonies in the Chapel, which include the services of the University chaplain, where appropriate, and the University deputy organist, can be found on the Chapel wedding price list web page.
Guidance on choosing organ music for your wedding can also be found on the wedding music web page.
Find out more about the history and architecture of St Leonard's Chapel .
Upper College Hall holds a licence for civil ceremonies and can accommodate up to 162 guests.
In order to get married within one of the University’s chapels, you must have a connection to the University or to the local area.
This usually means that one or both members of a couple must be:
Wider access is occasionally allowed.
For further information on who is eligible to marry in a University venue, please take a look at the University wedding guidelines .
There are a number of other venues which may be chosen as civil ceremony venues within the University.
For more details of these, please email aceevents@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The University of St Andrews boasts a number of historic venues for wedding receptions and celebrations.
Find out more about booking a wedding reception in St Andrews .
The impressive Lower College Hall , which lies across the lawns from St Salvator's Chapel, is the perfect setting for exclusive wedding receptions and prestigious events.
Lower College Hall can accommodate up to 152 guests for a wedding reception and on summer days the manicured lawns provide a stunning setting for drinks receptions and wedding photographs.
Upper College Hall , which can be reached via a grand staircase, provides a wonderful venue for those wishing to dance the night away.
It boasts a large dance floor, an oak bar and an in-built PA system.
Parliament Hall , once home to the Scottish Parliament, features a grand oak panelled interior.
This historic venue, accessed directly from South Street, can accommodate up to 100 guests for drinks receptions and finger buffets.
University chapel weddings Email: chaplaincy@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2866
Deputy University organist Andrew Macintosh Email: ajrm@st-andrews.ac.uk
Reception Venues and Civil weddings Email: aceevents@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2509

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/community/student-support:
The University offers extensive support to all its students through Student Services and the Chaplaincy.
Acting as the first port of call for both undergraduate and postgraduate students, Student Services is tasked with helping students at St Andrews achieve the best university experience possible.
Student Services also manages communication with anyone who is concerned about a student at the University, from parents and guardians to those in the local community and external agencies.
The Student Services team coordinates four main functions, each committed to monitoring and enhancing the student experience.
St Andrews has a diverse student community, and Student Services staff are committed to ensuring that all students have the opportunity to get the most from their time at St Andrews – whether they are here for one semester or for their whole degree.
Find out more about the student experience at St Andrews .
Staff in Student Services can offer advice on any query, such as paying bills, obtaining an academic transcript, seeking advice on visas, making a complaint, personal issues, or any other student matter.
The team can also advise and support parents, guardians and others outside the University who have questions about a student or University life.
Find out more about the advice and support available to students at the University .
The University has a dedicated student conduct officer who deals with matters relating to student conduct and discipline.
Find out more information about student discipline , including expected levels of conduct and how to report misconduct to the University.
Each University hall of residence is home to a warden and a team of assistant wardens.
These teams are there to support the students in the residence, to foster an inclusive hall community, and to provide emergency cover for all students overnight and through weekends.
Discover more about the wardennial service in University halls of residence .
The front door for Student Services is the Advice and Support Centre (ASC) , located at 79 North Street, which gives information on any student matter and can organise appointments with Student Services.
Some members of Student Services are based at Eden Court, which is located on The Scores.
Find more information on the ASC , including opening hours.
Students are also welcome to contact the University Chaplain, Revd Dr Donald MacEwan, at dgm21@st-andrews.ac.uk ), or Assistant Chaplains, Revd Samantha Ferguson at sjf6@st-andrews.ac.uk , Revd Giles Dove at gwd3@st-andrews.ac.uk , and Bill Shackman at bs58@st-andrews.ac.uk , who offer non-judgmental support to students of any faith or philosophy of life.
This includes:
The Chaplaincy is situated in Mansefield, opposite the Student's Association.
Mansefield is used by a variety of student societies, notably by faith societies for prayer, worship, meditation and fellowship.
To find out more about the services offered, take a look at the Chaplaincy website .
Ask a question Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2020
Email: chaplaincy@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2190

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/community/cafes:
The University has a number of cafes which are open to staff, students and the general public.
Whether you’re looking for a coffee to take away or a filling lunch in a convenient location, the University cafes have a range of options available.
Situated just inside the Main Library, the Franki's Cafe is a bright and pleasant space to take a break or meet up with friends.
A variety of food is on offer — from healthy breakfast options to soup, baked potatoes, panini sandwiches, and salads at lunchtimes.
Snacks and a range of hot and cold drinks are available throughout the day.
Franki's Cafe is open from 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
For a break between studying or exploring St Andrews, why not visit Fairlie's Cafe in the Medical and Biological Sciences Building (MSB)?
Visitors can enjoy breakfast rolls, soup, baked potatoes, sandwiches, home baking, confectionery, and hot and cold drinks — all available to eat in or take away.
Fairlie's Cafe is open from 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
A range of lunch options and hot and cold drinks can be found at UPDATES Cafe in the School of Physics and Astronomy.
Visitors can choose to sit in for a quick lunch or grab a drink to enjoy elsewhere.
U‌PDATES Cafe is open from 10am to 2.30pm Monday to Friday.
The Students’ Association’s flagship cafe is a vibrant space located at the front of the Union building.
The Rector’s Cafe offers all visitors the chance to relax with a drink and watch the world pass by.
With a selection of sandwiches, cakes and other food available, this is the perfect spot to enjoy a leisurely lunch or grab a beverage to take away.
Find out more about the Rector’s Cafe .
The Students’ Association also runs the Old Union Coffee Shop, found close to the St Salvator's Chapel on North Street.
Offering a range of hot food options at both breakfast and lunchtime, you can either grab a bite to take away or settle in for a cosy afternoon.
Find out more about the Old Union Coffee Shop .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/museums:
Rewrite the Future explores how the choices we make today could rewrite tomorrow, for a future that's more sustainable and more just.
Open until Sunday 28 September 2025.
With stunning artworks, interactive experiences, a dynamic events programme and exhibitions that change regularly, the University's museums offer something for everyone.
Entry is free.
The Wardlaw Museum takes visitors inside the University, exploring its groundbreaking research, global impact and a programme of changing exhibitions.
The Bell Pettigrew Museum displays natural history specimens, taking visitors on a journey through the animal kingdom.
Learn more about the work of Museums of the University of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/community/community-fund:
Our University Community Fund enables the University to listen to ideas, adapt to local needs, and provide financial support to deliver tangible benefits for the wider community.
The Community Fund accepts applications of between £250 and £3000, including those which:
The deadline for applications is 5pm on Friday 15 August.
In the meantime, download the latest copy of Community Connections 2025 (PDF) , which showcases the many initiatives the fund has helped since its launch in 2020.
The contents of the document will be available as webpages in due course.
Over the financial year, there will be a total of £30,000 available directly from the University in the University Community Fund across two funding rounds.
In addition, our fund welcomes donations.
Applications will be accepted for a range of funds, from the minimum amount of £250 to a maximum of £3000.
Applications will be accepted from organisations and groups from across Fife.
Applicants will learn the outcome of their application within one month of the closing date.
We recommend anyone interested in applying read the full University Community Fund criteria to ensure their projects and organisations fit the criteria.
Round 2 of Year 5 is now open.
Please complete the application form University Community Fund application form (Word)
Please email community@st-andrews.ac.uk if you have any questions.
St Andrews is close to the hearts of many people within its community and beyond and is the academic home to all of our alumni.
For 600 years the University, the town, and the wider community of Fife have shared in each other's vulnerabilities and triumphs.
Now we have the opportunity to recognise the continuing bond of care.
This fund is supported by a core University donation of £30,000 with the opportunity of topping up the fund from donations.
Please consider supporting our wider community to continue the invaluable work they do.
Donate now (UK/ROW) Donate now (USA)
Thank you.
Find out more about the community projects that have received funding from the University Community Fund on our showcase webpages or download Community Connections 2025 (PDF) , the latest report on the fund’s activities.
While this PDF may not yet meet full accessibility standards, we are working to make all materials available as fully accessible webpages in due course.
Lesley Caldwell Head of Community Engagement and Social Responsibility
Email: community@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)7749 385943

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-services/tailored-courses:
The University can design and deliver tailor-made courses for groups of any age.
The content and structure of these courses are designed to match the specific requirements of partner organisations.
The University has extensive experience in creating courses for educational institutions, as well as other types of organisations.
Courses can include content from any of the University’s academic areas, as well as sports and cultural activities.
Where we do not cover a particular subject area, we may be able to pull expertise from a neighbouring institution.
The University can design and deliver blended and online courses, as well as residential courses.
Subject areas covered in previous tailored courses include:
For English language and international business and negotiations subjects, we may be able to accept individual participants on courses already arranged with partners.
Please email ielli@st-andrews.ac.uk for further information.
If you are interested in running a tailored course designed by University of St Andrews, please email ielli@st-andrews.ac.uk .
A member of University staff will then follow up with you to ask for more details.
Tailored courses team Email: ielli@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/careers/employers:
The Careers Centre is enthusiastic about working with employers to help them connect with our student body and attract the best talent.
You can explore ways to advertise your job, event or internship below.
If you would like to get in contact directly with the Careers Centre, the Opportunities Team is always keen to hear from you.
Get in touch by emailing employers@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The Careers Centre works directly with academic Schools and student societies to better understand our students’ career aspirations.
This allows the centre to better shape your engagement programme.
The Careers Centre can work with you to:
The Careers Centre is accessed by over 10,000 current students and around 2,500 recent graduates (who have graduated within the last three years).
Our students receive a world-renowned education that prepares them for working in a professional environment.
Across all subjects, students receive many transferable skills applicable to a variety of disciplines and sectors.
In addition, as part of the curriculum, students participate in practical work experiences from the moment they join us.
Our students join us from over 130 countries, allowing us to attract the best talent from around the world.
International graduates are now able to stay in the UK for longer, giving employers more opportunities to add more diversity and perspectives to their teams.
Take a look at the key events and timelines of the St Andrews academic year.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation-conferences-events/conferences:
A great conference starts with a great location.
The University of St Andrews offers world-class conference facilities, with venues for up to 900, over 1,300 en suite bedrooms and an unrivalled position within the ancient town of St Andrews.
Combine this with all that St Andrews can offer, like award-winning beaches, a medieval town centre and famous golf courses, and you will see why so many conferences return each year.
The conference team helps members of the academic community host conferences to raise the profile of departments, relevant associations and the University.
Arrange a conference with Accommodation, Conferences and Events and you will have over 90 meeting rooms to choose from, ranging from impressive historic venues which overlook St Salvator’s Quad to the Gateway, a contemporary landmark building in St Andrews.
For further information on our facilities or to make an enquiry please contact the Accommodation, Conferences and Events team by calling +44 (0)1334 463000 or email aceteam@st-andrews.ac.uk
Conference venues
The Accommodation, Conferences and Events (ACE) team offer a flexible, customer-focused service alongside high-quality venues and a range of integrated services that match the needs of conference delegates, sponsors and speakers.
This includes face-to-face, virtual and hybrid events.
The dedicated events team work with varied clients to ensure that conferences at the University are a complete success.
The team can help with the following services:
Additional charges may apply for some services.
The experienced professional conference organising team remove the stress and strain of planning a conference.
They can support you in various aspects of the event or the entire project, and aim to ensure all details are arranged to your requirements and budget.
These are some of the services provided by the professional conference organising team:
There is a range of flexible and fully inclusive conference packages to choose from.
Both premium and standard rates are excellent value for money, and the ACE team is happy to create tailored packages that meet your specific conference needs.
View conference rates
There is a range of dining options for those attending conferences.
The dining halls in the residences offer high-quality menus, with a choice of starters, main courses and desserts.
Healthy options are also available: salads and vegetarian dishes can be prepared daily.
Chefs are also happy to work with conference organisers to cater for any special dietary needs that delegates may have.
Buffet lunches can be served in, or near, meeting and exhibition areas.
As Scotland’s oldest university, St Andrews has many prestigious dining venues.
Lower College Hall, set within St Salvator’s Quad, is an impressive historic setting for conference dinners and welcome receptions.
There is a wide range of menus to choose from, from simple finger buffets to five-course banquets, and an extensive wine list.
A new collection of recently launched menus feature the finest local produce.
These menus ensure delegates can sample some Scottish delicacies whilst visiting St Andrews.
Please note that outside caterers are not permitted.
Delegates can find information about the University, St Andrews, accommodation options and emergency procedures.
Delegate information
Accommodation, Conferences and Events Walter Bower House University of St Andrews Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US
Email: aceteam@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3000

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/visiting/travel:
St Andrews town is located on the east coast of Scotland within the Kingdom of Fife, and can be easily reached from a number of nearby cities using public transport, road and private transfers.
There are a choice of airports to fly into from international locations, and all have good links with the town.
As a certified Cycle Friendly Campus , an e-car hub and a car share provider, the University of St Andrews is committed to promoting sustainable modes of transport at every stage of your journey.
For information about getting around St Andrews, take a look at the range of University maps available and the guide Travel to and around St Andrews .
St Andrews is well connected to a number of international airports within Scotland.
Around 50 miles from St Andrews, Edinburgh Airport is home to many domestic and international airlines.
It has good connections to the city of Edinburgh, including both a tram line and 24-hour bus link (the Airlink bus service) to the centre of the city.
There are a number of shuttle services that offer transfers directly to St Andrews from the airport by road, as well as a selection of car hire companies found within the airport.
Glasgow is home to two international airports: Glasgow Airport and Glasgow Prestwick.
Glasgow Airport is around 90 miles from St Andrews, while Glasgow Prestwick is slightly further from the city.
Both airports offer a number of bus routes into Glasgow, which connect with onward transport options to St Andrews.
Aberdeen Airport is around 80 miles from St Andrews.
There are a number of public transport links from Aberdeen Airport, including a bus connection from the airport to the nearby Dyce railway station.
A small number of airlines fly into Dundee Airport, which is around 15 miles from St Andrews.
Dundee has extensive transport links with St Andrews, including a regular bus service.
The nearest railway station to St Andrews is Leuchars, around six miles from the town.
The station facilities include 24-hour parking, a waiting room and taxi rank.
Those travelling to St Andrews by train should take the Edinburgh to Dundee or Edinburgh to Aberdeen line to Leuchars.
For those travelling from south of Edinburgh, the Edinburgh to Aberdeen line links up with the London North Eastern Railway (LNER) line from London to Edinburgh, which allows travel from London to Leuchars on a direct route.
The LNER line also calls at stops including York, Darlington, Newcastle, and Berwick-upon-Tweed.
Alternatively, the Edinburgh Gateway station links Edinburgh Airport to Leuchars on the rail network.
Those flying into Edinburgh may travel to the Edinburgh Gateway station and join a train for Leuchars.
The Caledonian Sleeper service is also an option, which runs between London Euston and Leuchars overnight.
From Leuchars, St Andrews is easily reached by bus, taxi or car.
St Andrews is easily accessible from across Scotland by bus.
Most bus services arrive and depart from the bus station in the centre of town.
There are a number of bus services that serve St Andrews and the local area.
Stagecoach in Fife offer a number of routes around the town through the 99 services, as well as routes that go through nearby towns and villages.
The Stagecoach in Fife 99 service runs from St Andrews to Dundee through Leuchars approximately every 15 minutes during the day.
The bus journey from St Andrews to Leuchars takes around 15 minutes.
You may also choose to take the Moffat and Williamson 92 service from St Andrews to Dundee, although this service does not stop at the bus station.
If you are looking to travel to or from Edinburgh look out for the X58, X59 and X60 Stagecoach services, which take around two hours.
Stagecoach also offers bus services to Glasgow, on the X24, X26 and X27 services, which take around two and a half hours.
The Stagecoach 787 bus service runs between St Andrews and Edinburgh Airport.
For bus travel to other destinations within the UK or Europe, you may wish to investigate the Megabus or National Express services.
Both leave from a number of locations, including the Seagate bus station in Dundee, and services depart for destinations including London, Newcastle, Paris and Amsterdam.
Driving to St Andrews is relatively simple.
The town is signposted from Edinburgh and within Fife.
Driving from Edinburgh takes approximately 1 hour and 20 minutes.
Driving from Glasgow takes around 1 hour and 45 minutes.
Driving from Dundee takes around half an hour.
Most major airports in the UK have car hire services available within the arrivals lounge.
There are also nearby car hire companies in Dundee and Cupar.
St Andrews is home to a number of taxi and shuttle firms.
They can offer a range of services, from airport transfers to collection from Leuchars station.
You can find taxi ranks in St Andrews on Bell Street, on South Street, and at the bus station.
St Andrews is a small town and a car is not always necessary to get around.
If you decide to drive around St Andrews, please be aware that parking is limited and that it can be difficult to find a space at certain times of year.
Much of the on-street parking in the centre of town is metered, and coins are required to pay.
There are a number of options for free parking in St Andrews, including the car park close to the Petheram Bridge roundabout, and car parks along the East and West Sands beaches.
Some streets in the centre of St Andrews also have free spaces, although these are usually quickly filled.
Information about the location of Blue Badge spaces can be found on Fife Council’s disabled parking map using the postcode KY16 9AJ.
St Andrews is on a number of cycle routes and can be easily navigated by bike.
A section of National Route 1, known as Coasts and Castles North, connects Edinburgh to Aberdeen through St Andrews.
Part of this route between Guardbridge and St Andrews is traffic free.
The Round the Forth section of National Route 76 meets up with the Coasts and Castles North section of National Route 1 to transport all the way from Dunbar to St Andrews, through Edinburgh and Kirkcaldy.
For information about cycling within St Andrews, take a look at the University walking and cycling map (PDF) .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/visiting/accommodation:
Visitors to St Andrews have a large range of accommodation options to choose from.
Over the summer months, visitors to St Andrews have the option of staying in University accommodation.
A number of the University’s halls of residences are transformed into great value summer accommodation, offering both self-catered and bed and breakfast options in a range of settings.
You can find out more about staying in University accommodation on the Accommodation, Conferences and Events website.
The town is home to a variety of hotels, from the luxury of a five-star suite with views over the golf courses, to a boutique bed and breakfast just a few steps from the beach.
For those looking for a private base, St Andrews also offers a number of holiday lets which can be rented for any length of time, from a few days through to an entire summer.
The Visit Scotland website has a comprehensive list of hotels and bed and breakfast options in St Andrews.
There are also a number of hotels and accommodation options outside of St Andrews that are within a short drive of the town.
During busy times of year, such as graduation and the start of orientation week, staying outside of St Andrews is often recommended due to the high number of visitors.
Towns such as Cupar, Leuchars, Glenrothes and Ladybank, as well as nearby Dundee are easily accessible from St Andrews and have large numbers of accommodation options.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/digital-standards:
Digital standards provide information about digital best practice along with digital policies, procedures and rules for the University of St Andrews.
The University is committed to making its website accessible for all users.
Guidelines for captions and subtitles in video and audio content.
The University is committed to ensuring that its visual and design identity is presented in a clear and consistent manner across all publications.
The house style should be followed to ensure stylistic consistency across all University communications.
The decision-making framework for the University website consists of four design principles.
The standards and management procedures for website content, including access rights and change requests.
Guidance on creating a University-affiliated profile, developing a social media strategy and best practice to follow.
Training and tutorials in Digital Communications topics and website content management are available for staff of the University.
All video created must meet the University's quality, branding and accessibility standards and be signed off by the Video Producer before being published.
Rules and guidelines for anyone involved in or working on digital projects at the University.
A resource for developers to ensure a consistent look and feel for all digital products at the University of St Andrews.
University standards for filenames, PDFs, images and videos.
All decisions relating to the content and design of the University’s website are data-driven to ensure that the website and University apps meet users’ needs.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/digital-standards/accessibility:
The University of St Andrews is committed to making the University website accessible to all.
To do this, webpages and apps must meet the international Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA accessibility standard .
Accessibility is a legal requirement .
Making a website or mobile app accessible means ensuring it can be used by as many people as possible.
This includes those with:
All public sector websites and mobile and web applications published after 22 September 2019 must be accessible.
This also applies to any PDFs or Word documents published online.
The Digital Communications team works to improve the accessibility of the University webpages.
Digital Communications can help you to create accessible content through writing for the web training.
Please email itservicedesk@st-andrews.ac.uk for details.
Teaching staff can also find advice and resources on creating accessible teaching materials .
There is an accessibility section of the Digital Communications blog.
This includes developments in accessible web design and guides to help you create accessible content.
Help and guidance to make the most of our site and digital services, listing the known accessibility issues.
Advice and resources to help staff make education modules accessible to all.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/advice/disabilities/student-study-toolkit:
Welcome to our Study Skills area.
This area is still in development, but we have released the completed sections.
We hope to complete it soon – although we will always be updating information to keep up-to-date with the technology.
Studying at University can be quite different to the way that you have learned in the past.
These pages are to help you develop new ways of working.
You will build on skills you have learned in school and life, but there are techniques and software which can make the time you spend studying much more productive and enjoyable.
Studying at University is, and should be, challenging, but the rewards can be great as you develop new knowledge and skills.
Learning to apply these is a key part of your studying.
You can use this short course however you want.
You can dip in and out, you can work through all of it.
You may find you want to revisit parts of it as you approach key hurdles in your studies.
The most important thing is to recognise that developing these skills and learning the right supportive software early in your time at university will help you in your studies.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/digital-standards/file-standards/pdf:
PDF, which stands for Portwocument Format, has for some time been a common internet file format.
It's useful for electronic distribution because it keeps the look and feel of the original document, including the fonts, colours, images and layout.
Previously, sharing a file in PDF format allowed anyone to view the document, regardless of which word processor was used to create it.
However, although PDFs are still useful for official documents like policies and contracts, the use of PDFs online has fallen out of favour due to their lack of accessiblity.
We are legally required to publish content on the University website in an accessible format, including files that can be downloaded such as PDF , Word, Excel and PowerPoint files.
The introduction of the Equality Act 2010 means that i f a document on a website does not meet accessibility standards the University could be fined.
More recently, the Public Sector Bodies Accessibility Regulations state that all new content published after September 2018 has to comply with accessibility standards.
Related Scottish Government guidance makes it clear that if we need to keep a PDF, we are legally required to publish an accessible version of the content alongside it, such as an HTML webpage.
D igital governance experts, Siteimprove, in an o verview of UK website accessibility laws , no organisations have been successfully taken to court under the Equality Act, but several cases against non-compliant websites have been settled out of court.
Non-compliant organisations are named and shamed by the Central Digital and Data Office , so there is a real reputational risk to St Andrews for not been compliant.
According to the UK government, creating new documents as PDFs should be a "last resort".
HTML should be the default format for publishing content as webpages ensure the widest accessibility.
Most of the PDF and other files currently available on the University website do not comply with accessibility standards.
We are in the process of removing unnecessary PDFs and replacing them with HTML pages where possible.
To help us tackle the problem we changed the T4 admin rights for all users on Monday 14 October 2024 so that only the Digital Communications team can upload a file.
If you absolutely have to upload a document rather than create an HTML webpage, we recommend you use Word, which is more accessible than PDF.
If you want a Word or other file uploaded to T4 you will need to complete a form in Unidesk , but please read these PDF standards before you make the request.
PDFs should only be used for documents intended for print, for example, a brochure or poster.
These documents should not be uploaded to a website, but should still be accessible and have passed WCAG 2.1 AA standards .
The preferred format for a document that is to be added to a website is Word.
The document should be clearly structured with, for example, easily readable fonts and appropriate headings.
You can easily check if a Word document is accessible using the 'Check accessiblity' button on the Review ribbon:
Before adding any document or content to the University website you should check:
All PDFs created by the University whether shared online or not should be accessible.
An accessible PDF requires expertise to ensure it meets the following requirements:
PDF/A is an open standard intended for downloading or long-term digital storage.
The 'A' stands for archiving and is not related to accessibility.
Saving your document as PDF/A means the document will continue to work for a long time after it is published.
It also improves document security by blocking scripts and macros in documents that might contain malicious code.
By default, Word will save a document in PDF/A format.
If your software does not, then another program will need to be used to convert it to PDF/A.
You can use a free PDF accessibility checker tool and the accessibility checklist created by 18F , the US government’s digital agency, to help you with your manual testing.
You should also test whether your PDF is accessible using a screen reader.
There is also an extension for Chrome by Siteimprove that can check the accessibility of PDF files already published on the website.
Please make sure that the filename meets the required standards .
You can use Adobe Reader to find out if your PDF document is correctly tagged and structured.
People using screen readers need these to be able to access your document.
Go to ‘Edit’ then ‘Accessibility’ and select ‘Quick check’.
To fix any issues, you’ll need to either fix the original document in Word or use Adobe Acrobat Pro.
Follow Adobe’s instructions on using Acrobat Pro to check if your PDF is accessible .
The PDF should pass the full check for WCAG Level AA without any warnings.
For Windows , use the open-source screen reader Non-Visual Desktop Access (NVDA) .
It can be installed on the desktop or run from a portable USB drive.
With NVDA running, open the PDF and use the following commands to check the PDF:
These commands will also work with the JAWS screen reader from Freedom Scientific.
All Apple Macs have VoiceOver built in.
Turn VoiceOver on (or off again) using Command + F5.
With VoiceOver running, open the PDF and use the following commands to check the PDF:
VoiceOver does not provide shortcut keys for navigating by headings or graphics.
The University is not liable for external web content and may not be aware when this content is changed or removed.s

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/terms/complaints:
The University's complaints handling procedure is composed of four documents, which can be accessed below.
You may wish to consult the Guidance document first, as that provides an overview of the complaints handling procedure.
If you have any questions about the University's complaint handling procedure, please email complaints@st-andrews.ac.uk .
The University has separate procedures for dealing with academic appeals.
The University is required to present a report to the SPSO annually on the operation of its complaints handling procedure.
At the beginning of each academic year, the University will present to the Audit and Risk Committee a report on the operation of its complaints handling procedures for the previous session.
The Audit and Risk Committee will review the effectiveness of the operation of University complaints processes.
Details of these annual reports will also be made known to the Scottish Public Service Ombudsman, in line with the implementation guidelines for the operation of the Scottish Higher Education Model Complaints Handling Procedure.
Mediation can be an alternative means to resolve complaints, outside the University Complaints Handling Procedure.
Mediation is a confidential, informal, voluntary, self-determined and without prejudice process.
It provides a framework within which participants can communicate their perspectives and find constructive mutually agreeable outcomes.
Contact mediation@st-andrews.ac.uk or find out more on the mediation webpage.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/terms/cookie-notice:
The University of St Andrews (‘the University’) uses cookies and similar technologies to support the effective operation of University websites.
The cookies that we use helps the University to understand how people engage with our websites and to provide personalised services.
The University websites also use services provided by third-parties such as X, which can also be supported by cookies.
This notice explains what cookies are used and to what extent individuals have control over their use.
Cookies are small text files that are downloadetd on to a device when a website is accessed.
Those cookies are then used to recognise and remember the device.
This helps to understand how best to provide services, in general terms, or to remind people of the choices they have made online such as what items were ordered and placed into a ‘shopping cart’.
Functions usually performed by a cookie can also be achieved by other means - where information is stored on an individual’s device for access at a later date.
This could include, for example, HTML5 local storage, Local Shared Objects and fingerprinting techniques.
Cookies usually contain the unique address of a website (the URL), the ‘shelf-life’ of the cookie (after what point in time does a website not need to recognise a device) and a random number.
This information is minimal; the University cannot identify individual users from cookie data as there are no means of linking a cookie to a person.
The University makes use of the following types of cookies.
Our Google tags use Google Consent Mode v2, which adjusts data collection based on user consent.
We use the parameters ' ad_user_data ' and ' ad_personalization ' to respect user consent preferences in adherence to EU privacy regulations.
The University uses Google Analytics to measure how our websites are being used.
This cookie data is anonymous with no information that can connect a person to a cookie collected.
The University uses Hotjar to measure how our websites are being used.
Clarity works with Google Analytics to measure how our websites are being used.
The University uses Siteimprove to measure how our websites are being used.
The University uses the LinkedIn Insight Tag to assist with advertising conversion tracking, website audiences, and website demographics.
Direct identifiers are removed from this data within seven days in order to make the data pseudonymous, and the remaining pseudonymised data is deleted between 30 to 180 days.
Other than the strictly necessary cookies , which must be removed directly within your browser, you can 'switch on' cookies that fall under the performance category.
When you first visit the University website, performance cookies will be switched off.
To accept or refuse performance cookies simply toggle the corresponding option in the provided cookie preferences tool - a link to open this is found in the footer of the website.
This tool complies with Google Consent Mode v2, ensuring that user preferences for data usage are respected in line with EU privacy regulations.
The cookie preferences tool is only available to users from within the EU.
Other visitors should control their cookie preferences directly in the web browser.
The University also makes use of software and services provided by third-parties on some of our web pages such as an embedded social media feed.
This third-party provider then may use cookies for that service.
You cannot delete third-party cookies via the University website cookie preferences tool.
However, you can control these by altering the cookie preferences directly in your web browser.
Most browsers can be configured to refuse cookies, or to provide a warning before they are accepted by your device.
The help function within your browser should tell you how to configure it to refuse cookies or to alert you to their use.
The University, as introduced above, makes use of software and services provided by third-parties, who in turn make use of cookies.
The categories of cookies used by third-parties via University websites are:
We use Gecko Engage to embed interactive forms on certain web pages to collect user’s submitted information - such as applying for a visiting day.
For information on how Gecko make use of their cookies, please see the Gecko Engage privacy policy .
We use Radius by Campus Management to embed interactive forms on certain web pages to collect user’s submitted information - such as applying for a visiting day.
For information on how Radius make use of their cookies, please see the Campus Management privacy policy
We embed SoundCloud on some web pages to show content from that service.
For information on how SoundCloud make use of their cookies, please see the SoundCloud cookie policy
We embed videos from our official YouTube channel using YouTube’s privacy-enhanced mode.
This may set cookies on a device once you click on the YouTube video player, but YouTube will not store personally-identifiable cookie information for playbacks of embedded videos using the privacy-enhanced mode.
For information on how YouTube make use of their cookies, please see the Google privacy policy
We sometimes use tracking pixels to assist with our marketing and delivery of online advertising.
By better understanding what our audiences are interested in, we can more efficiently promote the University.
For example if you have looked at certain pages on our website we might want to highlight our open days or give information about a particular course to you.
The technology to do this is made possible by cookies and as such we may place a ‘remarketing cookie’ during your visit.
We are unable to proactively reach out to you personally as the process is anonymised, but you can opt out of these cookies at any time.
The tracking pixels we currently use are for Facebook, X and Google Remarketing.
You can opt out of almost all advertising cookies by updating your preferences on the ‘Your Online Choices’ website.
It is worth noting that opting out of advertising cookies won't stop you seeing adverts, just that they won't be tailored specifically to you.
Opt out of advertising cookies on Your Online Choices website
The provided cookie preferences tool is also used to manage user preferences for HTML5 local data storage.
A link to open this tool is found in the footer of the website.
The categorisation works in the same way as it does with cookies, with only strictly necessary data being stored on initial visit to the website.
All other categories require user opt in before the data is saved in the browser.
Other visitors should control their HTML5 local data storage preferences directly in the web browser.
The University makes use of software and services provided by third-parties, who in turn make use of the following HTML5 local data storage.
We use this tool to provide visitors with intelligent prompts that link to additional information they may find useful.
The information stored on a visitor’s device is only ever accessed by the browser and is not sent to a server.
Page last updated: Wednesday 7 May 2025

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/principal/principals-office:
The Principal's Office is made up of the senior management of the University who hold responsibility for specific areas of the University, such as teaching, research or meeting business needs.
The Principal's Office serves the Principal and other key officials of the University .
The Deputy Principal and Vice-Principal for International Strategy and External Relations works closely with the Principal and other members of the senior management team shaping the University strategy, and is responsible for developing and managing strategic relationships locally, nationally and internationally.
Full biography
The Vice-Principal (Strategy) and Chief Operating Officer (COO) has oversight of the development and implementation of the University’s strategy and provides leadership in the overall development of the University’s professional services.
The Master of the United College is responsible for strategic leadership across the Academic Schools and is line manager to the 18 Heads of Schools and the Faculty Deans.
The Proctor is responsible for all strategy and practices related to learning and teaching within the University.
The Vice-Principal (Governance) is Secretary to Court and is responsible for all aspects of corporate governance, including oversight of legal services, risk management, security and safeguarding, business continuity, research ethics, information governance, and complaints and whistleblowing.
The Vice-Principal (Research, Collections and Innovation) holds responsibility for research within the University.
The Vice-Principal (Digital Education, Research and Environment) is primarily responsible for defining and delivering Digital St Andrews.
The Vice-Principal (People and Diversity) is responsible for delivery of the University’s ambition that equality, diversity and inclusion should be at the heart of the St Andrews experience and all that we do.
The Vice-Principal (Communications) provides strategic communications leadership to St Andrews’ resolve to be world-leading, diverse, entrepreneurial, digital, sustainable and socially responsible.
The Strategic Adviser (Finance) works closely with the Principal and other members of the senior management team to ensure the long-term financial health of the University.
The Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Arts advises the Heads of Schools in the Faculties of Arts and Divinity on aspects of University regulations and academic procedure as relevant to their remit, and offers informal counsel.
The Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Science advises the Heads of Schools on aspects of University regulations and academic procedure as relevant to their remit, and offers informal counsel.
The Assistant Vice-Principal (Strategy and Planning) provides positive, collegiate, proactive leadership and coherence to the University strategy and has oversight of assurance frameworks that underpin institutional planning, performance, risk management and change.
The University has four faculties, each managed by a Dean and supported by Associate Deans.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/administration/academicdatateam:
« Back to Admin A-Z
You are here: University » Administration A-Z » Academic Data Team
The chief function of the Academic Data Team is to safeguard the integrity of the student record and associated infrastructural academic data including the University’s portfolio of programme of study.
Members of the Academic Data Team provide data-related training, academic policy support and quality assurance of student record data.
FAQ and Staff Resources
Curriculum (Modules and Programmes)
Examinations
Transcripts
Registry
The Advice and Support Centre (ASC)
Graduation

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/academic/intervention:
You are here: University » Current Students » Academic matters » Academic intervention
To complement the academic alerts process, which is applied at a module level, the University operates an academic intervention process at an overall degree programme level.
The principle is to help students recognise when their academic progress may be at risk, at a sufficiently early stage that they have opportunities to take action to address any underlying problems.
The stages of academic intervention are:
See also:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/accommodation-conferences-events:
Managing the delivery of conferences, events and accommodation bookings.
The University of St Andrews offers great-value holiday accommodation during the summer.
The perfect setting for exclusive weddings and events.
Great discounts on accommodation bookings of 20 or more.
The University offers special package rates for summer schools.
Find out more about hosting a virtual or hybrid event.
Check for the latest booking discounts.
Get in touch with the Accommodation, Conferences and Events team.
St Andrews has lots to offer.
Come and explore.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/advice/disabilities/alternativeformats:
Updated on: 3 June 2025
Module tutors will prepare materials in a variety of formats, for example:
Some learners may have a preference for certain formats, for example, learners often prefer their work in Word format, where they can change the font, size, colours or add annotations.
For these students, making their own alternative format will best suit their way of working.
For students with certain disabilities, the files provided could be inaccessible without conversion.
For students who need their work in another format due to a disability, the University will work with them to find the best format and prepare their work in a way that meets their needs.
To request an electronic version of a text, email digital.access@st-andrews.ac.uk with details of the book or paper.
Any electronic text can be read with a text-to-speech reader .
Students and staff can convert files into a more accessible or useful format using Sensus Access, an online service operated by the University Library.
Files can be converted into an online book, a text file, audio and braille.
The files you create are for your own use and not for sharing on your course.
Examples of file conversion include:
The converted file will be emailed to your University email address.
Files uploaded to a Moodle course area can be converted into different formats.
A letter A with an arrow pointing down means that you can get the file in a different format.
Typically, this will include:
If you require any other type of alternative format, email a request to digital.access@st-andrews.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/faculties-deans/associate-deans-education:
The Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Learning and Teaching is supported by a team of Associate Deans who have responsibility for a range of learning and teaching matters.
The Associate Dean acts with full authority on behalf of the Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Learning and Teaching.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/faculties-deans/associate-deans-students:
The Assistant Vice Principal Dean of Learning and Teaching is supported by a team of Associate Deans who have responsibility for a range of learning and teaching matters.
The Associate Dean Students oversees the undergraduate academic advising process and has a number of other roles, including dealing with complex student cases.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/policy/planning-office:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Policy and governance » Planning Office
The Planning Office ensures coherence and collaboration across the institution to inform and strengthen strategic decision making.
We provide professional expertise for planning, external policy and data analysis, management information provision, timetabling, and risk management.
Analytical and statistical services, cross-sector analysis, survey analysis, ad-hoc information requests, league tables.
Placement of all university insurances, insurance advice, data collection, insurance legal compliance
Corporate risk management, operational risk projects, training.
Crisis Management, disaster recovery and business continuity planning, incident debriefs and learning, exercises and testing, training
Academic timetabling and ad hoc space allocation.
Planning Office
Walter Bower House Eden Campus Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: 01334 467350
Email: planning@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/print-and-design/binding:
For reports, projects, dissertations and theses the Print and Design team can provide six different forms of binding.
Available at St Katharine's West
Comb binding is a type of soft binding where all pages are punched down the left-hand side and held together with a plastic comb spine.
It has a clear acetate front cover and card back cover.
Available at 65 North Street
Fabric spine soft binding is a popular choice for dissertation binding and can be completed while you wait in the following options:
Hard case binding is mainly used for final submission of PhD and MPhil research degrees .
It is a type of hardcover book binding using Buckram, a hardwearing bookbinder's cloth.
The cover is printed with a gold foil block with the title of the document and the ‌author's name, which is also imprinted on the spine.
The pages are bound to the spine.
There are four options for hard case binding available:
The Print Unit can digitally produce A4, A5 and A6 stitch bind books, brochures and magazines from 8 pages up to 100 pages on 80gsm white or colour paper.
Contact printunit@st-andrews.ac.uk for more information.
Unibind is a type of soft binding in which all the pages are glued to the rigid, black spine.
This is a popular option for dissertation binding .
Unibinding is available with or without the acetate cover sheets.
If you choose not to use acetate, a sheet of black card will be added at the back as usual.
For dissertation printing, you should check first with your supervisor that this will be acceptable.
Wire binding is a type of soft binding where all pages are punched down the left-hand side and held together with a metal wire spine.
Print and Design St Katharine's West 16 The Scores St Andrews KY16 9AX
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3020 Email: printanddesign@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-intelligence:
You are here: University » Business Intelligence
The business intelligence team provides simple and secure access to decision support tools.
The team combines data from across the University in interactive reports and dashboards.
These dashboards let users view accurate and timely information without needing technical expertise.
Help the business intelligence team improve their products by sending feedback.
If you have a suggestion for a change or a new feature, the team would love to hear from you.
Please email bi-team@st-andrews.ac.uk
Business intelligence team University of St Andrews
Postal IT Services St Andrews Fife KY16 9AL Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work +44 (0)1334 46 2762
Email: Work bi-team@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-transformation:
Supporting the University in the identification, prioritisation and delivery of strategic change.
Business Transformation University of St Andrews Walter Bower House Eden Campus Guardbridge KY16 9UY
Email: businesstransformation@st-andrews.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 1700

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-transformation/board:
The University’s Business Transformation Board (BTB) is the governance body responsible for making investment decisions and monitoring progress of all initiatives within the Business Transformation Portfolio (BTP).
To find out more, download the BTB Terms of reference (PDF)
Find out about BTB meeting dates and times .
Business Transformation University of St Andrews Walter Bower House Eden Campus Guardbridge KY16 OUS

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/business-transformation/portfolio:
The Business Transformation Portfolio (BTP) is a segment of the University's investment in the transformational changes required to achieve its strategic objectives.
The BTP aims to enable the achievement of the University’s strategy by ensuring that:
These initiatives will take the form of either a hub portfolio, programme or project.
A summary of the initiatives within the BTP is provided within the initiatives register .
All BTP initiatives are subject to the business transformation policy .
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all Business Transformation initiatives are governed, developed and delivered in a consistent and controlled manner following principles of programme and project management best practices.
This policy also enables the prioritisation of initiatives by ensuring there is consistent information available to support decision-making.
Find out more about the BTP's remit and how to submit a business transformation proposal or the services offered by Business Transformation .
If you require support in relation to your initiative, contact the Business Transformation helpdesk .

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/tech/estates/carparking:
You are here: University » Current Staff » Tech and administrative services » Estates » Car parking

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/chaplaincy:
The Chaplaincy offers support and guidance to all students and staff regardless of their faith or philosophy of life.
Hi, my name is Donald McEwan.
I'm Chaplain to the University and let me take this opportunity to welcome you to St Andrews University.
You might be a new student or watching this video for any other reason.
And what I'm going to do now is introduce myself and some of the other people and things that we do here through the chaplaincy in this University, this beautiful University of St Andrews.
As I said, my name is Donald.
I've been chaplain for 13 years.
I can't believe how fast that time has gone.
I'm a Scot.
I'm from Glasgow.
I've lived in Ireland.
I've lived in Japan, but I've lived here in this part of Scotland in Fife for over 20 years.
And I absolutely love being chaplain here.
It's so much fun spending time with students, with staff.
Every day there is something new and different about this role.
Anyway, I'm not the only chaplain here in the University.
There are three assistant chaplains, Sam and Giles.
They're both also Christian ministers as I am, and they also help with pastoral care, listening to students and staff, supporting them, and also help with worship.
Speaking of pastoral care, every student and every member of staff is welcome to come and talk about any issue at all.
You don't have to be a person of faith.
We support people of every faith and culture and tradition and philosophy of life.
We do not impose solutions or religious narratives upon you.
We listen and we try to help you through whatever you're facing.
Alongside these chaplains, there's also Bill.
Bill Schachman is our interfaith chaplain, and he really supports all the faith societies from a huge range of religions and traditions.
He organises interfaith encounters where we can gather and talk about scriptures and other traditions.
Alongside Bill, there are honorary chaplains.
These are volunteers from across the spectrum of faiths and philosophies of life to support students in your journey.
I mentioned worship.
We are blessed with two beautiful medieval chapels, St.
Salvator's, St.
Leonard's in the University, and there are four choral services every week.
Three in St.
Salvator's Chapel, that's even sung twice, and the Sunday morning service, and once a week in St.
Leonard's Chapel Complain.
And at every one of these services, student choirs sing the most gorgeous music from across the centuries of spiritual song.
Everyone is welcome at these services regardless of your own faith, your own philosophy of life, and it would be lovely to see you at them.
Now you may want to discuss things, not just one-to-one, but with other students or other members of staff.
That's fine.
We have a number of discussion groups, most of which meet in this building where I am now.
This is called Mansefield, also the chaplaincy.
It's across the road from the Students' Union.
We have groups that discuss issues of faith and society, interfaith things.
We have a group that explores a call to ministry.
We have grief groups exploring bereavement, if that's been a factor in your life, and we have other discussion groups too.
We also have particular honorary chaplains that support international students for whom English is not their first language.
That's called Local Link, and we have an honorary sports chaplain that spends as much time as she can over at the Sports Centre supporting student staff involved in sport and exercise.
So as you can see, and I've actually just touched on some of the things, we in the chaplaincy are absolutely here for you and will help you in your journey, whatever that is.
Just get in touch.
You're totally welcome to.
The webpage that has got this video will have ways to email the chaplaincy, email me and my colleagues in the team.
You can call up.
You're probably going to bump into me.
I am six foot six, that's one metre ninety eight.
My hair is pretty red and I tend to wear this clerical collar, this uniform.
There's no one else.
You're going to bump into looking quite like this in St Andrews, so come say hi, say hello, say you saw the video, and it'll be great to get to know you.
If you are en route to St Andrews or have just arrived, congratulations on coming here.
I hope you have a fantastic time and if there's any way we can help, please just let us know.
All right, bye for now.
The University Chaplain, Revd Dr.
Donald MacEwan, is supported by Assistant Chaplains Revd Samantha Ferguson, Revd Giles Dove, and Mr Bill Shackman.
They are joined by a team of Honorary Chaplains who represent a diverse range of faiths and beliefs.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/osds:
You are here: University » OSDS
Organisational and Staff Development Services (OSDS) is the University’s central provider of professional development for all University staff, and is also responsible for a wide range of organisational development projects and initiatives.
OSDS works as a strategic partner with Human Resources to deliver the University People Strategy, to create greater efficiency and stronger synergies across each element of the employee journey, and to create the conditions where individuals and the organisation can achieve higher levels of performance.
New Staff Learning Portal
‌ Staff development
Leadership and management
‌ Organisational development
Walter Bower House Eden Campus Main Street Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sustainability/travel:
Most people in St Andrews move around on foot or by bike, and we want to do our part to support these sustainable travel options.
We work with cycling and car share schemes and share tips for moving around on foot and by public transport.
Active Travel Champions, St Andrews brings together and celebrates the power of collective local action for active and sustainable travel solutions across our communities.
You can be a part of one of the many St Andrews initiatives supporting sustainable travel:
We want to make it easier for you to cycle, so we provide the following services:
The University supports staff to travel to work in a more healthy and active way.
The cycle to work scheme is a salary sacrifice scheme that provides an Income Tax and National Insurance efficient way to pay towards the hire and eventual ownership of a bike, and associated cycling equipment, up to the value of £2500.
This is repayable to the University over a period of between 12 and 24 months .
How it works:
Cleaner, cheaper and quicker, public transport has many benefits.
From St Andrews, buses take you all over Scotland and the rest of the UK, whether to the Highlands or to cities like London and Glasgow.
University staff and students get 75% off bus travel with Stagecoach .
Megabus is another option for travel to the rest of Scotland.
The nearest railway station is Leuchars.
From there you can get a bus or taxi to St Andrews, and cyclists can use the cycle path that takes you right into St Andrews in about half an hour.
National rail provides details of train tickets and timetables.
There is a campaign underway for reopening the railway from Leuchars to St Andrews .
The railway would improve sustainable commuting between Edinburgh, Crail, St Andrews and Dundee, and make our roads less busy.
Save time, money and the environment by using the University's lift share scheme , which has many benefits.
You can save up to £1000 in fuel costs and emit significantly fewer emissions by taking part in lift share.
The University prioritises parking for staff sharing vehicles for their commute to work.
At Eden Campus, the parking spaces closest to the entrance are dedicated to shared vehicles, and we are looking to expand this initiative to the town of St Andrews.
The University supports the uptake of electric vehicles (EVs) and has installed a network of publicly available charge points across campus.
These can be accessed using ChargePlace Scotland .
Drivers can access charge points by using a ChargePlace Scotland RFID access card, through the ChargePlace Scotland smartphone app, or using the ChargePlace webpay link .
There is a charge of 50p per kWh to charge on University stations, with a £10 surcharge added after six hours of charging.
Cars must display a valid University car parking permit.
You can see a live map of charge point status and availability at Charge Place Scotland , which is also accessible through the Transition Travel Map .
Issues accessing chargers should be directed to ChargePlace Scotland using their Fault Reporting Form and the six-digit charge point ID found on the charge post.
Problems with car parking management, such as non-electric vehicles in charge bays, should be directed to the University’s Security Team by calling +44 (0)1334 46 8999 or emailing security@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Parking is regulated by the University's Car Parking Regulations 2007 .
The University has partnered with Enterprise Car Club to bring two cars into St Andrews.
These are located at:
If you are registered to drive hire cars on University business and wish to have the option to use the Car Club vehicles, sign up for the University’s Car Club account .
Staff who have downloaded the Enterprise Car Club app should not be able to reserve the vehicles using the app.
Bookings can only be made by authorised bookers on the Enterprise Travel Direct website.
Things you should know:
Travel is part of academic life and it can be challenging for research or professional staff who are climate aware to balance international network building opportunities with the requirement for air travel.
Colleagues at the Universities of Edinburgh and Strathclyde are testing a decision-making tool kit designed to help people reflect on their decision to fly to a conference.
The kit also offers advice on alternatives.
Download the Air Travel Justification Toolkit to help you decide whether or not you need to fly.
The University of St Andrews regularly surveys staff and students’ travel uses and behaviour.
You can find the most recent results in our 2024 Travel Survey Summary page.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/professional-services/data-governance-office:
The data community at the University is supported by the Data Governance Office (DGO) who co-ordinates and facilitates corporate data improvement activities and data issue resolution.
The DGO has overall accountability for monitoring the University’s data quality capability with specific responsibilities for corporate data held in the University's Data Warehouse.
The DGO is an advisory service for data-related activities and ideas while also acting to:
The Data Governance Office is led by the Head of Data Governance and reports to the Business Design Authority (BDA).
The BDA tasks and supports the DGO with activities defined by the University’s strategic plans .
Staff and students should engage with the IT Service Desk for data support .
This includes everything from what you see in MySaint, and in other University systems to updating a piece of centralised data held in the Data Warehouse.
Email: datagovoff@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/it-support/services/data-support:
Staff and students can engage with the IT Service Desk about all data-related queries and training needs.
This includes everything from what you see on ID cards to MySaint and other University systems.
Staff can log into Self Service and students can log into MySaint to update personal details, such as:
Contact the IT Service Desk to assist with changes to the following:
Staff using University systems have a responsibility to report the following issues to the IT Service Desk :
Examples include:
If you believe that any University system or data has been compromised, report it immediately to:

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/governance/faculties-deans:
The University of St Andrews has four faculties; the Faculty of Arts, the Faculty of Divinity, the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Science.
The University's Schools and departments all belong to one of the four faculties.
The Faculties of Arts and Divinity are led by the Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Arts and Divinity , the Faculty of Science is led by the Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Science and the Faculty of Medicine is led by the Dean of Medicine .
In addition, the Provost of St Leonard's College is supported by a number of Associate Deans and two Associate Provosts.
Prospective students looking for more information about the University's faculties can find out more on the Study at St Andrews website .
The Faculty of Arts oversees all University Schools and departments covering the arts and humanities.
The Faculty of Divinity is home to the School of Divinity and related departments.
The Faculty of Medicine oversees the University's School of Medicine as well as related research groups and departments.
The Faculty of Science is home to all of the University Schools and departments relating to science subjects.
The Deans of Faculty provide guidance and governance to all University Schools and departments within a specific faculty.
The Assistant Vice-Principal Dean of Learning and Teaching is supported by a team of Associate Deans who have responsibility for a range of learning and teaching matters
The Assistant Vice-Principal (Provost) is supported by the Associate Provosts who have responsibility for a range of learning and teaching matters

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/advice/academic/onlinepart-timestudy:
You are here: University » Current Students » Advice and support » Academic advice » Online/Part-time study
If you are studying outside of St Andrews, including Study Abroad or studying online, there are still a broad range of Student Services available.
Any St Andrews student who is not currently in St Andrews can access these services.
Similarly, our services are also available to students on exchanges to St Andrews.
If you have any questions about your studies or related issues, then please contact Student Services.
We can give advice by email or can arrange to call you at a time that suits you if that would be easier.
Including concerns relating to disability, health, immigration, money, or personal matters.
If you are unable to study full time due to illness/family commitments/work commitments you should contact the appropriate Registry Support Officer .
Although many degrees can be studied part-time, the structure of some courses makes satisfying the requirements of the degree difficult if studied part-time.
You should also visit Student Services for advice on the financial implications of part-time study.
If you require a VISA to stay in the UK (if you are a non-EEA national), then you cannot study part-time.
Your VISA has been issued based upon your full-time study.
Therefore if you are not studying full-time, your VISA is invalid.
For more details, contact the International Student Adviser at studentservices@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Part-time students are expected to complete their studies in double the time it takes a full-time student.
Therefore they would be expected to take around half the credit load of a full-time student.
For undergraduates, this would be between 60 and 80 credits per year.
It is important to check with your adviser that you are taking all the required modules for your intended course because some modules may not be available every year.
Since part-time students are still fully matriculated students, access to the Athletic Union, Students’ Association and student discount schemes are the same as for full-time students.
Your matriculation card does not display whether you are a part-time student or not.
One aspect which may be affected is Student Accommodation.
Part-time students are not normally offered accommodation in University Residences.
Please contact Student Accommodation for further information.
There are several ways in which part-time studies can impact your finances.
Part-time fees are determined by how many credits you are taking.
You can view the tuition fee structure and you may also be eligible for a Part-time Fee Waiver or Individual Learning account.
You will need to carefully check the terms of any loan, scholarship, bursary or sponsorship you are receiving as part of your study to see if it will be affected by a change to part-time study.
As a part-time student, you will be required to pay Council Tax.
However, you may claim Council Tax Benefits based on your income.
There may be other benefits that are affected by a change to part-time status.
To check these through, contact the Money Adviser ( money.advice@st-andrews.ac.uk ) at Student Services.
If you have a disability and want to go part-time, you are recommended to go and have a chat with a Disability Adviser ( disabil@st-andrews.ac.uk ) at Student Services.
The University has an obligation to provide you with the necessary support therefore in most cases the Disabled Student Allowance will be unaffected.
If you are currently a part-time student and feel that you are able to take on full-time study, you should contact the Registry Support Officer .
You should also contact the Money Adviser ( money.advice@st-andrews.ac.uk ) at Student Services.
The ASC University of St Andrews
Postal 79 North Street St Andrews Fife KY16 9AL Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work +44 (0)1334 462020
We welcome feedback about your experience with Student Services.
Please contact Ellen Mackintosh ( ebm1@st-andrews.ac.uk ) or Dr Penny Turnbull ( pt28@st-andrews.ac.uk ) to tell us what we've done right or where we could have done better.
Please also be aware that the University has a Complaints Handling Procedure for formally addressing concerns.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/professional-services/education-and-student-experience:
Education and Student Experience supports the delivery of the University’s Education and Student Experience Strategy working closely with the Vice-Principal Education (Proctor), Assistant Vice-Principal (Learning and Teaching) and Provost, the Decanal Team and other Professional Services.
The Education and Student Experience team provides the following services:
Education and Student Experience is managed by Ros Claase (Director of Student Experience) and Nicola Milton (Head of Education Policy and Quality).
Meet the Education and Student Experience Team .
Education and Student Experience University of St Andrews Eden Campus Guardbridge St Andrews KY16 0US

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/education/staff/academic-monitoring/enhancement-led-institution-review:
The Quality Assurance Agency Scotland (QAA) carries out enhancement-led reviews of all higher education institutions in Scotland.
A new enhancement-led external institutional quality review method has been developed for 2024-25.
An Institutional Liaison Meeting (ILM) was undertaken in 2022/23 and a Quality Enhancement and Standards Review (QESR) in 2023/24.
The University’s QESR took place on 31 January 2024.
The main purpose of the review was to provide assurance about the University’s management of its responsibilities for academic standards to inform the new enhancement-led institutional full review; provide assurance about the University’s management and enhancement of the quality of learning opportunities for students to inform an enhancement-led full review; report on any features of good practice; and make recommendations for action.
Following the one-day review, the QAA published its report and expressed confidence in the University's progress in continuing to monitor, review and enhance its higher education provision to enable effective arrangements to be in place for managing academic standards and the quality of the student experience.
The University received three commendations and one recommendation.
An action plan has been developed to address the recommendation and this will be published on the QAA website on 11 September 2024.
The report and action plan submitted to the QAA can be found at:
The Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) has formally announced a new tertiary external review method – which all universities and colleges will participate in – known as the Tertiary Quality Enhancement Review (TQER).
The purpose of TQER is to review, consider and investigate the way in which the institution supports and undertakes quality assurance and enhancement against the Tertiary Quality Enhancement Framework (TQEF), with key areas covering the quality of the student learning experience, the management of academic standards and the mechanisms for enabling student success.
The University will provide two constituent evidence types to support the review team in their findings: an Advance Information Set (AIS) and a Strategic Impact Analysis (SIA).
The University will be visited by an external QAA review team in March and April 2025, where there will be an opportunity for staff and students to meet and engage with the review team and the TQER process.
Following this, a final TQER report will be provided to the University, outlining the review judgement and findings, listing any findings of good practice and required recommendations, including a statement in relation to each of the principle areas of the TQEF.
The University is committed to ensuring that staff and students are able to engage, learn and participate in TQER, with a series of key communications underway to report on our journey throughout the review process.
Please take a look at some FAQs about the TQER process .
If you would like to meet the review team their bios can be found here .
For more information, please contact Nicola Milton ( nam6@st-andrews.ac.uk ), Ros Campbell ( rc42@st-andrews.ac.uk ) or Connel Greenhorn ( cjg28@st-andrews.ac.uk ).
Previously, the external review process used by QAA Scotland was the Enhancement-led Institution Review (ELIR) which was carried out on a five-yearly cycle.
The fourth iteration of the ELIR process (ELIR 4) ran from 2017-22.
The University’s ELIR 4 review was held in 2020 and the key documents relating to the review are:
Nicola Milton Head of Education Policy and Quality
Email: nam6@st-andrews.ac.uk
Ros Campbell Karen Murphy Academic Policy Officers (Quality)
Laura Palmer Administrator
Email: academicmonitoring@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/ehss:
You are here: University » Environmental, Health and Safety Services
Here you will find advice on all aspects of accident prevention and risk management.
Please feel free to contact the team with questions relating to any of these areas.
Fire Safety
Measuring Health and Safety Performance‌
Radiation Protection

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/study-abroad/turingscheme:
You are here: University » Current Students » Study abroad » Turing Scheme
The Turing Scheme is a programme that provides funding for UK educational providers to support students in study and work placements around the world.
The scheme is managed by the Department for Education (DfE) and aims to help participants from all backgrounds develop new skills, gain vital international experience, and boost their employability.
The University was successful in securing Turing funding for the academic year 2024-2025.
The Turing scheme has now been confirmed until 2025-2026 and St Andrews will continue to bid annually.
Turing scheme funding is available for students on study and work placements which are an integral part of their degree whether optional or compulsory.
We are also able to fund additional activities including short term research placements for post graduate students.
We will contact all confirmed study and work abroad students early in the calendar year to invite applications and will open applications for other cohorts throughout the cycle if funding allows.
We also offer a range of University of St Andrews scholarships and bursaries.
These are subject to their own deadlines and application processes and we are committed to continuing our exchange programmes and supporting our students on their placements.
Awards for Turing are made based on our institutional application, which are submitted annually in March.
The Global Office will circulate a call for applications each year from students participating in study or work abroad opportunities, and the University will then communicate results directly to students who have responded to the internal application for the scheme once we have our institutional award which is usually received at the end of the summer.
Bank details on MySaint must be up to date for the funding to be processed.
Please be aware that the mobility start date is not the date on which you arrived at your placement, but the first date on which you must be in attendance at your placement.
Placements can only be funded from 1 September onwards.
Extra funding may be available for students from disadvantaged backgrounds or who meet the UK government's special education needs or disabilities criteria for additional support.
Contact us at outbound@st-andrews.ac.uk for more details.
The University will apply for this uplift in funding on your behalf if you have indicated to us that you may be eligible.
Please note that you must provide evidence to demonstrate your eligibility as part of the application process to the Global Office.
Students are required to sign and return documents before, during and after their time abroad.
For more information, please refer to the documentation webpage .
For all funded students.
Timeline :
Please note that any Turing Funding received by a student is not a loan – it is a grant administered by the University on behalf of the British Council who run the scheme for the UK government.
Extensions to periods that are initially identified in the award letter are not guaranteed due to the parameters of the University’s funding award, but the Global Office will aim to add to periods in that letter if informed about them before it is initially signed.
We are happy to receive requests for extensions during a placement as long as we receive the request one month before the original end dates of the placement.
The Turing scheme will operate until at least the end of the 2025-2026 academic year.
The University will normally apply for funding in March for the following academic year and we normally hear the result in July.
Current student finance arrangements remain in place.
We advise that students contact their student finance company directly for further information at present.
Please note: the University of St Andrews is unable to guarantee Turing scheme funding in any given year.
Turing scheme funding is awarded each year on the basis of our application as a University.
We will invite applications from students participating in study or work abroad placements and other activities such as volunteering and summer placements and will apply on your behalf.
We will approach students with additional calls for applications throughout the year depending on funding.
We cannot guarantee that our applications for funding will be successful, we will usually notify you of the outcome of our application funding in August prior to the academic year in which your activity will take place.
As part of the Turing programme, eligible students will be issued with a Turing award letter which must be returned to the Global Office.
This contract or award letter will serve as a guarantee of funding.
Exchanges and Study Abroad studyabroad@st-andrews.ac.uk
Phone:  +44 (0)1334 46 2245
Student consultation hours and appointments
Study and Work Abroad Coordinators
Global Office Blog
Instagram

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/about/professional-services/estates:
Estates is managed by Mark Simpson (Director) and Helen Mackie (Assistant Director Facilities Management).
Estates University of St Andrews KY16 8LA
Office hours - Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 3999 Out of hours for emergency repairs Phone +44(0)1334 46 8999

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/subjects/non-degree-courses/evening-language-courses:
Please check the timetable for details of courses available and times.
If you have a valid student matriculation number and username, please go directly to our enrolment form .
If you are not a student at the University (including staff members) please submit a details form so that we can generate a student I.D.
and allow you to proceed.
The details form will close on Monday 15 th September.
For in-person teaching, bookings will close at 9 a.m.
on the day that classes begin.
For online courses they will close at 9am on the day prior to the classes starting.
Please note, that courses can fill up, or can be cancelled if there are not enough participants, so early booking is advised.
The University of St Andrews offers evening language courses throughout the academic year.
Courses are offered to students at all levels of study, from beginners to advanced learners.
The evening language courses last for ten weeks, and as a student, you will attend one class per week.
All classes last for 2 hours.
Students should note that the modules offered in the evening language courses are not part of any degree pathway and may not be used as credit counting towards a degree programme.
Follow these steps to book a place in one of our evening language courses:
If you do not have a University username and a student ID number, you must complete the evening languages registration form .
We will email you a username and an ID number in two working days to allow you to book your place.
Book your place
Students who have successfully completed one of our courses should simply continue to the next one (e.g.
from elementary 1, move to elementary 2 or from elementary 2 to intermediate 1 and so on).
Anyone who is not a beginner should try and judge their level against the Common European Framework.
If the result is still not clear, we can arrange for you to discuss your level with a tutor.
Please email eveninglanguage@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Although not directly aligned with the Common European Framework, our courses can be looked at as falling into the following levels:
This is a measure of proficiency in different skills, designed to give a coherent picture of a learner’s language capacity.
It is used for placement and the design of syllabi.
The levels are usefully summarised in the self-assessment grid .
For a step by step guide to finding your own personal level, please use the tool to self-evaluate your language skills .
Language courses typically available, include:
The evening language courses are extremely popular, and the University tries to respond to this demand with the courses and levels that are offered.
However, due to timetabling restrictions, not every level of study is available for every language each semester.
There are four different levels of study for students of differing abilities.
These levels correspond to various levels on the common European framework:
When you enrol for an evening language course at the University of St Andrews, you should think carefully about which level of course best suits your current knowledge of the language.
It is important not to choose courses that will either be too easy or too difficult for you.
You may enrol in any of the levels listed above even if you have not previously attended our classes.
The course fee for Semester 1 (2025-2026) is £150.
Generally, withdrawals are not permitted.
There is no facility for ‘sampling’ classes.
While the module can be removed from a student’s transcript, this does not remove the obligation to pay.
There may be some exceptions as noted below.
No refunds will be made should a student enrol for a level that is unsuitable (for example, a beginner enrolling for an elementary class, or an advanced student for an intermediate group) simply because there is no group available at a more appropriate level.
All teachers have different teaching styles, and some languages (particularly those which require the learning of a non-Roman alphabet) require different approaches.
The teachers will conduct their classes according to the course descriptions on this website.
Should any participant feel that this is not the case and that the teacher is deviating from the course description, the procedure for complaint is as follows:
On investigation of any complaint, it may be necessary to have a meeting with the complainant, the teacher and the course director to decide on any future action.
Email: eveninglanguage@st-andrews.ac.uk
Email : eveninglanguage@st-andrews.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/registry:
You are here: University » Registry
About Registry
Student Change of Circumstances
Scholarships
Projects and Continuous Improvement

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/sustainability/food:
Local ingredients, more plant-based meals and less waste are our priorities for a more sustainable future.
Learn what we do within the University, what initiatives there are in town, and how we work globally to make it easier for people in St Andrews to consume sustainably sourced food and use environmentally friendly products.
This practice is good for the environment and for our small community.
It helps us understand the growth and impact of food.
Contribute to a more sustainable future by supporting local farmers and educating yourself by getting involved.
Our town offers:
Join this society to help run an organic and local food co-op.
This initiative is part of Transition St Andrews and is entirely student-run.
There are many ways to get involved, either in a committee position helping with operations and communications, or with volunteer work at The Tree's weekly stall.
Start by emailing thetree@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Residential Business Services has worked to:
Through food we make choices about climate, social justice, equality and much more.
We work with the Scottish Fair Trade Forum and Fairtrade to buy sustainable food while educating and prompting the market to make a change.
Students and staff can get involved by emailing environment@st-andrews.ac.uk .
To date, we have:
Our Fairtrade Action Plan aims to:
Read our Fairtrade Action Plan (PDF).

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/students/money/fees:
You are here: University » Current Students » Money matters » Fees
Tuition fees
You should expect to pay fees for every year you are in attendance and be aware fees are subject to revision and may increase annually.
Accommodation fees
Find out:
If you are externally funded (this includes payment from SAAS, SLC and other private companies), see the externally funded page for more information.

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/ehss/firesafety:
You are here: University » Environmental, Health and Safety Services » Fire safety
Fire is the hazard which presents the most serious danger that any person in the University may foreseeably ever have to face.
It can break out anywhere and can be life threatening in a matter of minutes.
The Fire (Scotland) Act 2005 and the Fire Safety (Scotland) Regulations 2006  set legal requirements for fire safety within workplaces and must be complied with by the University.
The University Fire Safety Guidance document (2011) can be found at the University Fire Safety Policy and Guidance (PDF, 814 KB)
Carrying out regular fire safety routines is the most effective means of reducing the risk of fire.
The value of the nightly routine of switching off and unplugging electrical equipment (unless the equipment concerned is designed to run continuously), checking that gas taps are turned off, and closing the doors to all rooms and staircase enclosures, cannot be over-stressed.
Fire is more likely to occur in laboratories and workshops where flammable liquids and gases are often used.
Stringent precautions are required in these areas to ensure that no sources of ignition occur.
the presence of a bunsen burner or sparking thermostat may be quite sufficient to start a fire.
Welding and cutting equipment should never be used near flammable liquids or combustible materials, unless adequate precautions are taken to prevent ignition occurring.
Information on particular hazardous areas within a School/Unit such as solvent, chemical and cylinder stores, should be available to the fire brigade.
Advice on all aspects of fire prevention may be obtained from the University Fire Officer.
All groups of staff and students should be instructed in the action to be taken should a fire break out.
The University fire routine procedure is published in the form of a notice entitled "Fire Action" and is applicable to all University buildings.
Copies of the Fire Action notices should be posted in appropriate prominent positions throughout University buildings.
Three types of fire extinguishers are provided in University premises, water, carbon dioxide and dry powder.
Each has a specific range of use.
Fire blankets are also provided in many locations and should be used for smothering fires involving flammable liquids or burning clothes.
Note: Only persons who have received appropriate training should use fire fighting equipment.
All fire fighting equipment must be inspected annually.
This requirement is managed centrally by Environmental, Health and Safety Services.
It is essential that the fire alarm system and pre-arranged plan specific for the evacuation of each building should be tested at least annually within each University building.
It is a legal requirement that all employees should receive suitable and sufficient training in fire safety.
Fire Safety Training, covering all aspects of fire safety, is provided at regular intervals to all members of staff by the University Fire Officer
The Head of School/Unit should ensure that:
The Fire Safety Adviser undertakes a wide range of activities.
and provides advice on:
From time to time, Schools and Units may be notified that Fife Fire and Rescue Service wish to inspect their property and we would be grateful if any School or Unit facing this situation could notify us immediately.
We will then help you prepare for the visit, in terms of making up to date documentation and progress reports available.
Where possible we will accompany the inspection to assist you on the day.
Mr Bruce Jackson, Mr Gary Wood and Mr David Sharp (Part Time)
Environmental, Health and Safety Services Walter Bower House Eden Campus St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland United Kingdom
Phone: +44 (0)1334 46 2771 Email:
Occupancy Numbers for University Venues (PDF, 369 KB)

New sentences found on https://st-andrews.ac.uk/hr/gradingrewardandconditions/frameworkagreement:
You are here: University » Human Resources » Grading, reward and conditions » Framework Agreement
The framework agreement for the modernisation of higher education pay structures responded to a widespread view within the higher education sector that the national collective bargaining arrangements in the sector needed to be reformed.
The agreement recognises the vital contribution which staff at all levels make to the continuing success of UK higher education and the need for staff to be rewarded properly.
It also recognises the need to modernise pay arrangements to:
The details the agreement reached between the University of St Andrews, AMICUS, UCU, and UNISON on the development, design and implementation of the new pay and grading structure and related principles.
Information and copies of communication statements issued during the implementation phase of the framework agreement project can be obtained by contacting framework@st-andrews.ac.uk .
Postal University of St Andrews Walter Bower House Guardbridge St Andrews Fife KY16 0US Scotland, United Kingdom
Tel: Work +44 (0)1334 463096 Fax: Fax +44 (0)1334 462570
Email: Work framework@st-andrews.ac.uk