# Site: https://www.stir.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 499
# --------

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk:
Undergraduate Open Days
Book your place
More than 170 flexible undergraduate degree courses.
On campus and online Masters courses with multiple start dates.
Find out about our PhD, MPhil and Professional Doctorates.
Welcome to all new students!
Discover everything you need to do before you arrive and explore the welcome activities to help you make a great start to life at Stirling.
Discover life as a student at Stirling.
Join us to find out about our courses and explore our beautiful campus.
Our Strategic Plan sets out the University’s direction to 2030.
We are confident it will enable us to deliver our ambition to be the difference, to make an impact on people’s lives and be a force for good in the world.
Our research makes the difference.
Explore our research themes, programmes and spotlight articles to find out how we’re impacting the world.
We deliver the best for Scottish sport through the powerful combination of sport and education.
Follow us
Popular links
Site information
Contact us
© University of Stirling

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses:
Filter your results
My favourite courses
Recommended
Visit us
Browse our subject areas
Join a webinar
Scholarships
Research degrees

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects:
Browse our subject areas to learn more about our areas of expertise and find the right course for you:
We have more than 170 undergraduate course combinations and 90 postgraduate degrees for you to choose from, but we offer you much more than just a qualification.
Join Stirling and you’ll discover a welcoming and thriving student community on a stunning 330-acre campus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study:
Study at Stirling and you'll graduate with more than a qualification.
You'll be immersed in knowledge and opportunities that will encourage you to grow and succeed.
You'll grapple with big ideas and be encouraged to think differently by academics whose research is changing the world.
Our flexible degree courses will help you to be the difference in your chosen career, by providing you with the knowledge, expertise and lifelong employability skills to ensure you stand out from the crowd.
Our postgraduate courses are focused on helping you to be the difference in your chosen career and equipping you with the lifelong employability skills to stand out from the crowd.
As a postgraduate research student, you’ll be given an insight into that research –and will also earn the opportunity to make key research contributions of your own.
Discover our wide range of continuing professional development (CPD) courses which can benefit your career or business.
From coaching at Arsenal FC to launching their own hospital, Stirling graduates are making their mark on the world in incredible ways.
See some of the inspiring careers, achievements, and stories of our diverse alumni community—proving that a Stirling degree is just the beginning of something wonderful.
96% of our graduates
were in employment or further study 15 months after graduation
Graduate Outcomes 2020-21, HESA
Be the difference and join our global community.
Get more information about studying at Stirling, English language requirements, pathway programmes and more.
You can also get information specific to your country or region.
Get all the tuition fee information for undergraduate and postgraduate study along with funding opportunities and cost of living advice.
See all the details of important aspects of studying at the University of Stirling including terms and conditions, the Student Code and policies.
You can study many of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses part-time.
We also offer flexible, online postgraduate courses.
for Teaching, Employability, Global Engagement, Research, Facilities, Environmental Impact.
QS Stars University Ratings 2024
Our range of secure and affordable accommodation includes over 2,000 rooms right on our beautiful campus, as well as easy-to-reach off-campus residences.
We’re here to equip you with the skills you need to make a positive start to your career.
From discussing career plans to supporting you with job-seeking skills, our Careers Consultants can help you.
We encourage prospective students, their families and supporters to visit our beautiful campus, learn more about the University and see our first-rate study, sport and social facilities for themselves.
Get our latest undergraduate or postgraduate prospectus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international:
The University of Stirling is a prestigious, international University and we're home to students and staff from around the world.
With a global reputation for high-quality teaching and education, join us to discover our diverse and vibrant international community.
We have 140+ nationalities represented on our Stirling campus and deliver degrees in locations around the globe.
With more than 300 courses to choose from and a beautiful 330-acre estate, Stirling is the perfect place for you to call home.
We're ready to help you excel in your studies and welcome you into our community.
Search for your region to discover information specific to where you're from including entry requirements, English language requirements, scholarships, useful contacts and more.
Discover why our International Summer School offers the perfect place for you to grow as a person.
You can also take a workplace internship as part of your experience.
We offer once-in-a-lifetime study abroad and exchange opportunities.
With university partners across the world, you can spend up to a year studying in another country.
Explore campus right now with our virtual tour – and see for yourself why so many students from around the world make Stirling their home.
Improve your English language
Teaching, Employability, Global Engagement, Research, Facilities, Environmental Impact
QS Stars University Ratings 2024

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research:
At the University of Stirling, our researchers are truly making a difference.
We’re working to improve the lives of people with dementia, feeding communities through sustainable aquaculture research and finding creative ways to inspire better health and wellbeing.
Our challenge-led research is conducted to the highest standards of quality and integrity, allowing us to support and improve life across the world.
We work towards the UN's Sustainable Development Goals to create a better and fairer world.
Find out about our impact.
Our research is encompassed within three overarching themes: Cultures, Communities and Society; Global Security and Resilience; and Living Well.
Alongside our overarching themes, our research programmes further highlight our broad areas of expertise in 12 distinct areas.
See what we're working on.
Staff in our five academic faculties are the starting point and driving force behind the research taking place at the University of Stirling.
AI powered glasses could be a gamechanger for people with hearing loss
Couples who meet online are less happy in love according to new study
Report warns of accessible homes crisis
The Conversation is an independent source of news and views, sourced from the academic and research community and delivered directly to the public.
For more than 30 years, our scientists have been improving water quality globally through Earth observation in an ever-changing world.
Find out how our research has been critical to implementing major new policies to repair tens of thousands of water bodies across Europe.
We find innovative solutions to the challenges of ageing and dementia that are enabling older people to live independent lives, for longer.
Our experts dissect some of the popular subcategories of the functional water market, separating myth from reality to empower consumers with evidence-based insights into optimal hydration practices.
Our research seeks to explore new ways in which free mental health awareness and intervention can create positive outcomes and new care pathways for patients struggling with depression or at risk of suicide.
Our expertise has attracted major investment that positions the University at the heart of regional growth and research innovation.
Plans are in place for a new £17 million Aquaculture Hub and £5 million International Environment Centre at the University as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal.
We are also leading the Forth Environmental Resilience Array – a multi-million-pound project that will use sensors, satellite data and artificial intelligence to provide vital information on water quality and other critical factors that will drive sustainable economic recovery on a local, regional and ultimately global scale.
In order to promote a healthy research culture across the University, we are engaged in a wide range of activities designed to ensure everyone's voice is heard and everyone's efforts are recognised.
We believe that a supportive culture of collaboration and teamwork will allow all of our staff to achieve their potential, and we encourage staff at all levels to act as good role models and demonstrate fair, collaborative and supportive behaviour.
Read and download our most popular research papers.
You can also explore the entire catalogue of University of Stirling publications .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about:
At the University of Stirling, being the difference is in our DNA – providing education with a purpose and carrying out research that helps to shape society.
We are an international university with pioneering spirit and a global reputation for high-quality teaching and research.
We are passionate about creating impact in everything we do.
Stirling is a place where ability – not background – is valued.
The core strength of the University of Stirling is our people.
To build on our success, we invest in the best staff from around the world to deliver on our ambitious strategies for research, teaching and our international partnerships.
At Stirling, we are always on the lookout for people who have the talent and the skills to make a real difference to society.
Could that be you?
The University of Stirling is organised for learning, teaching and research into five faculties, each of which comprises multiple departments, institutes and centres.
There are also a number of professional services directorates within the University.
University of Stirling Stirling FK9 4LA Scotland UK
If you have any questions about studying with us at the University of Stirling please get in touch using our 'Ask a question' form.
Go to our contact page for useful phone numbers and email addresses throughout the University.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life:
Studying at the University of Stirling is an unforgettable experience, but don’t just take our word for it.
We're 1st in the UK and top 3 in the world for our campus environment (International Student Barometer 2022).
We’re a close-knit community with a global outlook, and no matter where you’re from or hope to end up, we think you’ll like it here.
1st in the UK, top 10 in the world for campus environment
International Student Barometer (ISB) 2024
Our 330-acre campus is an inspiring place where cutting-edge ideas fuse with breathtaking nature.
Your award-winning Students' Union is right at the heart of university life.
Take a closer look at the Union's venues and services.
Make friends for life and share your passions in one of our 120+ clubs and societies.
Whatever you're into, you'll fit right in.
As Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence, we aim to make sure every student can enjoy our world-class sports facilities.
Discover a range of online events, resources and activities designed to keep you connected with the University community.
1st in the UK, 2nd in the world for sport facilities
In Stirling, you’ll find all that’s good about Scotland – vibrancy, history, energy and a wealth of opportunities.
What will you discover?
Scotland was named the world's most beautiful country and favourite destination by The Rough Guide in 2017.
Stirling’s central location means getting across Scotland couldn’t be easier.
Accommodation
Our range of secure accommodation includes over 2,000 rooms right on our beautiful campus, as well as easy-to-reach off-campus residences.
Student Support
We offer an extensive range of support services to help you fulfil your potential and make the most of your time at university.
Careers Service
Our Careers Service consultants are here to help equip you with the skills you need to make a positive start to your career.
Our state-of-the-art library houses more than 500,000 books and has plenty of space for research and study.
With an independent cinema and theatre on campus, there's always something new to see.
The central hub of campus life is home to restaurants, shops, pop-up stalls and much more.
When you begin your student life at the University of Stirling, you’ll be in good company.
Find out more about how we prepare you for your future career and what courses we offer.
Study at Stirling
Welcoming the world
Your future

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing for 2025 is open.
Complete our quick form to secure your Clearing place at Stirling.
Our team will review your request and if you meet the entry requirements, we'll email you a provisional offer.
If you'd prefer to chat with one of our Clearing advisers you can call us on +44 (0)1786 466166 .
We're open 9:00 to 17:00, Monday to Friday.
Call our Clearing team now on +44 (0)1786 466166 to secure your place at Stirling.
As a result of high demand for our courses, we only have Clearing places available for students from Scotland on our Adult and Mental Health Nursing courses starting in September 2025.
All other undergraduate courses are not in Clearing for Scottish students.
If you're interested in one of our Nursing courses, call our Clearing team now on 01786 466166 or use our live chat to secure your place at Stirling.
So how does Clearing at university work?
Answer: it’s super easy.
If you’re waiting for your exam results in August, you can apply through Clearing as soon as you have them.
However you can register for Clearing updates right now and get email updates with tips, clearing advice and support.
Our Clearing advice hub has all the information you need to help you find your place.
Join Stirling and discover a welcoming and thriving global student community on a stunning 330-acre campus with iconic sports facilities as well as fantastic social, learning and study spaces.
The city of Stirling combines the charm of a historic destination with the friendly buzz of a young population.
It's a short train ride away from both Glasgow and Edinburgh, and is a gateway to the Scottish Highlands.
Our campus tours let you see our fantastic facilities and beautiful campus, giving you a sense of what it will be like to live and study at Stirling.
They run every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
See what it’s like to be at Stirling, no matter where you are in the world.
Take our virtual tour to have a closer look at what makes the University of Stirling so special.
Hear about what our students have to say about their Clearing experiences, how they navigated the Clearing process, and why they chose the University of Stirling.
1st in UK for sports facilities
International Student Barometer 2024
1st in the UK for campus environment
Get in touch and talk to our admissions team about Clearing.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships:
If you have the talent, ability and drive to study with us, we want you to make the most of the opportunity and we can help you with your finances.
We offer a variety of funding opportunities to encourage and support ambitious students from all backgrounds, and from around the world, to come and study at the University of Stirling.
If you would like a more interactive way of filtering our scholarships please enable JavaScript in your browser to use the form below.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news:
History teachers go back to school as they reshape Scots’ role in the Empire
University of Stirling specialists are teaching the teachers how to share a new version of Scots emigrant history.
New guidance to help people with poor mental health and substance dependence get out into nature
University athlete set for World Athletics Tour race, hosted on campus
Gender pay gap underestimated in official statistics
If you are a journalist looking for an academic to provide expert comment, opinion and analysis - or give a background briefing on a story - please go to our Research Hub to find a relevant expert .
Events
See what's on at the University including public lectures, open days, exhibitions, graduations and more.
Our Communications team is the main point of contact for media organisations wishing to find out more about how the work of the University is making lives better across the globe.
Meet the team

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events:
Filter events
You are viewing the events
                                archive.
These events have passed.
If you or one of your guests have mobility issues or other special requirements, please let us know as we will make the necessary arrangements.
Parking charges apply to all campus car parks and affect all who park on campus.
Find out more about visitor parking .
Accommodation is available on campus at the Stirling Court Hotel .
Refresh and recharge at one of our many cafés and restaurants .
Discover movies, live theatre and much more at Stirling's cultural hub, right here on campus.
Image by Tommy Ga-Ken Wan

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/favourites:
Anything you’ve marked as a favourite on the Stirling website such as courses, accommodation and scholarships, will appear on this page.
You can share your list with others by generating a unique link using the Generate Share Link button below.
Remove any item by clicking on the heart or use the Clear favourites button to remove them all.
Share link
The following share link has been copied to your clipboard:
https://www.stir.ac.uk/shareaccommodation/NTc0Nyw1NzQ2LDU3MDA=

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/contact-us:
See contact details for a range of services at the University of Stirling, including media enquiries, studying, conference bookings and more.
You can get in touch with the University of Stirling by calling +44 (0)1786 473171 .
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact the University of Stirling via contactSCOTLAND-BSL, the online British Sign Language video relay interpreting service.
Find out more on the contactSCOTLAND website .
You can also chat to our student ambassadors about any aspects of student life such as accommodation, nightlife, the best places to eat and drink, and what’s on in Stirling.
If you have any questions about undergraduate course choices or how to apply please get in touch with our Student Recruitment team.
recruitment@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0)1786 467046
If you have applied to study at the University of Stirling and have any questions please get in touch with our Admissions team.
admissions@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0)1786 467044
If you have any questions about applications, entry requirements, raising a confirmation of acceptance for studies or visas contact our graduate admissions team.
postgraduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0)1786 466655
If you're an International student you can get in touch with our recruitment team for advice and support.
international@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0)1786 466681
Media Enquiries
Our Communications team is the main point of contact for media organisations wishing to find out more about how the work of the University is making lives better across the globe.
How to make a complaint
We’re committed to providing all our users with high quality services and aim to do so fairly and efficiently.
If something goes wrong or you are dissatisfied with our services, please tell us.
Freedom of Information
Find out how to make a Freedom of Information request or request Environmental Information from the University.
Data Protection
If you would like to make a Subject Access Request to the University i.e.
request information the University holds about you, please read our guidance.
Our award-winning conference venues and facilities for short holiday breaks are managed by Stirling Venues.
Our dedicated conference team will see your event through from initial enquiry to its successful conclusion.
Go to the Stirling Venues website for more information .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/search:
Looking for a course?
Clearing 2025: Find your place
See more University news
Contact the Communications team
What's happening
See all our public events
Open days
Graduation
Art Collection
BeConnected events for students and staff
Research Hub
Staff guide to profile updates
Spotlight on REF 2021
Our research
Research resources for staff

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate-open-days:
An Undergraduate Open Day is your golden opportunity to find out everything there is to know about life at the University of Stirling.
Whether the Open Day is on campus or online, our students and staff are here to welcome you.
You can find out about our courses, learn about the application process and explore our beautiful campus.
If you can't make an Open Day, you are welcome to drop in and join a campus tour .
Tours take place every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, subject to availability.
On-campus Open Day
Saturday 20 September 2025
Virtual Open Day
Wednesday 8 October 2025
Saturday 1 November 2025
Read our guide on what to expect and how to explore everything we have to offer.
Find out more about what happens at our open days and how to prepare.
Prospective students, applicants and their families can visit the campus every Monday, Wednesday and Friday (subject to availability).
Our campus tours, led by trained Student Ambassadors, will last up to 90 minutes.
The tours allow you to see our fantastic facilities and beautiful campus for yourself, giving you a sense of what it will be like to live and study at Stirling.
Booking is compulsory.
Spaces on tours are limited, so please book a minimum of five working days prior to your preferred visit date.
You can also step into the University of Stirling and start exploring today with our virtual tour .
1st in the UK for sports facilities
If you've got any questions, don't hesitate to get in touch.
We're always happy to help, and we can't wait to welcome you onto campus soon!

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
With over 170 single and combined courses to choose from, our flexible degree courses will help you to be the difference in your chosen career, by giving you the knowledge, expertise and lifelong employability skills to ensure you stand out from the crowd.
To apply for a full-time undergraduate degree, you should apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
There are alternative application options for January and part-time entry, Forth Valley College degrees and international students.
Each student needs to meet the course-specific entry requirements listed on each undergraduate course page.
See the wide range of qualifications we accept.
The cost of studying at the University of Stirling depends on where you live and the course you choose.
We have many available scholarships and bursaries, which can support you in your studies.
At Stirling we offer you much more than just a qualification.
Join us on our stunning 330-acre campus to discover an amazing student experience, with a strong community feel and opportunities to help you grow personally and professionally.
Our on-campus open days let you explore our beautiful campus, check out our range of courses and spend time with staff and students.
It’s your opportunity to get a taste of what life as a Stirling student is really like.
The University of Stirling believes that everyone has the potential to succeed and actively encourage applications from student groups such as care experienced students, young or adult carers, estranged students, and students living in a priority postcode area.
As a widening access student you can get support throughout your university journey.
From coaching at Arsenal FC to being a television producer creating shows for Netflix, Stirling graduates are making their mark on the world in incredible ways.
Our students gain more than a degree - we ensure our students graduate as confident and career-ready individuals prepared to make a difference in their chosen field.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Complete one of our Masters courses in just one year to achieve your career objectives and realise your life ambitions.
We have 90 postgraduate degrees for you to choose from.
At Stirling, we’re all about choice.
We offer a range of qualifications including MSc, MA, MRes and MBA.
Most of our Masters courses take one year to complete.
We offer Master of Philosophy (MPhil), Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Professional Doctorates.
See which research degree is right for you and your career ambitions.
Get more information about our wide range of postgraduate loans, scholarships and funding opportunities.
Once you’ve found the perfect postgraduate course for you, the application process couldn’t be easier.
Our online postgraduate courses offer a great level of teaching and support, and are perfect to fit in around a busy lifestyle.
Take your career to the next level, or in a new direction.
If you’re an international student and don’t meet the required academic or English-language criteria for entry onto one of our postgraduate course, our pathway programmes and English language courses can help you reach your potential.
Find out more about what makes Stirling a great place for Masters study and how we'll help to boost your career prospects.
Take a closer look at how a Masters degree from Stirling can set you on the path to future success.
If you have any questions about entry requirements for our postgraduate courses just get in touch with our Graduate Admissions team.
For all other questions you have about postgraduate study please use our enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees:
At the University of Stirling, we truly believe that great ideas and ground-breaking research can transform our society and help to enhance economic, social and cultural connections across Scotland, the UK and the entire world.
Research is a critical aspect of our learning and teaching.
As a postgraduate research student, you’ll be given an insight into that research – and will also earn the opportunity to make key research contributions of your own.
PhD subject areas
We offer PhD supervision in a wide range of subject areas.
See a full list of available programmes.
How to apply
See our step-by-step guide to applying for a research degree at Stirling.
Our world-leading academics are experts in their fields, whose work is centred on making an impact.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), 87% of the University's research was assessed as having an outstanding or very considerable impact on society.
Each of our faculties host sector-leading research groups.
They serve as crucial information hubs for researchers from all over the world, and have evolved to establish strong and internationally recognised reputations.
Whether it’s working to prevent cancer, advising governments on policy or improving food security, our researchers work together to be the difference and solve real-world problems.
You’ll have access to the Institute for Advanced Studies: Postgraduate Research Zone which offers you 24/7 access to a range of valuable resources that will help you in your studies and research.
Fees and funding
Find out how much your research degree may cost and how to get funding for it.
Our aim is simple.
We want our research to change lives and tackle the global issues of our time.
So we provide the best conditions for our thriving community of 3,800 UK and international postgraduate students studying with us.
Collaboration is at the core of our approach – not just working across disciplines but also with business, other universities, the public sector and government.
Our academics are experts in their fields, internationally-recognised and shaping research groups and hubs.
See what Stirling is all about .
Postgraduate research degrees can open up a range of opportunities for graduates.
It is a period of intensive training and intellectual challenge, which allows students to build upon their existing knowledge within a certain subject area, and push the boundaries of current research.
Using this experience, our graduates have gone on to pursue successful careers in a range of sectors, including health and sport research and development, clinical and industry practice, the government, research councils, and further academia.
Typically, a full-time PhD course in the UK lasts between three and four years, but the duration depends largely on the funding stream.
The University and Faculty have a number of initiatives to help you stick to your planned research timetable and meet your milestones throughout your study.
There is an active postgraduate research community, where the level of peer and supervisory support is second to none.
Stirling has developed strong relationships, and participates proactively, with the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership Scotland and the ESRC Scottish Doctoral Training Centre, also known as the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) and the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS).
The SGSAH and SGSSS offer additional training opportunities for postgraduate research students, allowing them to benefit from the latest learning and teaching in research, and connect aspiring researchers to a vast network of leading academics in their fields.
These two national graduate schools are fully funded by two leading UK Research Councils: the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
For research students funded by the National Environment Research Council (NERC), Stirling also has established links with the IAPETUS Doctoral Training Partnership.
In addition, our own Institute for Advanced Studies participates regularly in UK Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE) events to ensure our students are up to date with wider postgraduate research sector developments.
Normally, a Masters-level degree – or international equivalent – is required to progress to a research degree.
However, it can sometimes be possible to transfer directly from your undergraduate studies if you are interested in pursuing further study.
Regardless of your subject preference, it is expected that you will have achieved at least an upper second-class bachelor’s degree in your undergraduate studies.
For students who are keen to progress to doctoral study but do not have a Masters, we offer more than 100 postgraduate taught courses across a range of disciplines at Stirling to bridge the required knowledge gap.
All of our taught courses include an element of research-based learning, but the Master of Research – commonly known as MRes – in particular offers students an intensive training in research methods, and will put graduates in good stead for PhD study.
Read more on our How to apply for our Research Degrees page.
There is no minimum requirement in order to graduate.
Students may publish one or two papers during their studies, but there is a large variance in this area.
Although it does not affect your ability to graduate, high-quality publications will make you more competitive in the job market, particularly if you plan to follow an academic career.
Students who do not have a Masters qualification but are passionate about progressing to PhD research can apply for an integrated 1+3 degree programme.
This study option allows you to complete a full year of taught study and, providing you meet the necessary progression criteria, move immediately on to three years of PhD research.
Securing an integrated Masters and PhD programme will not only provide you with an excellent route into doctoral research; it also gives the added security of knowing your research funding is taken care of before you begin your studies.
Yes, lots!
Many of our students travel overseas for training and research purposes.
They go to Canada, Alaska, the Tropics; they participate in exchange programmes in Australia, Germany and Spain.
The opportunities are endless, and the extent to which a student can travel during their PhD studies is very much up to the individual.
You can apply for specific exchange programme grants, utilise an existing relationship between a supervisor here and collaborators abroad, or you could be a part of a specific joint project with another institution overseas.
At Stirling, we encourage our students to think outside the box and explore as many different perspectives and contexts as possible, in order to solve some of the world’s most pressing challenges.
Yes, and it is very much encouraged to ask for that if you feel you need it.
Our job is to ensure that you come into a research environment that allows you to fulfil your research potential.
So, if needed, we have made it very easy to change supervisors – although this rarely occurs.
In an effort to ensure our students have the best guidance from the outset, all PhD students at Stirling are assigned two supervisors: one primary and one secondary.
This gives you two points of contact at any time during your studies and should ensure all of your research needs are catered for.
Absolutely, there are lots of students from around the world who choose to relocate with their families in order to pursue a PhD qualification.
As this can be a big commitment for your loved ones, the University of Stirling aims to ensure the transition is as easy as possible.
Staff within our Psychology department run a dedicated nursery programme, allowing young ones to integrate early on and make new friends.
We also offer dedicated family accommodation on campus, allowing your family to relocate without the stress of finding a new home.
There are regular coffee mornings and informal clubs – set up by partners of PhD students – which create a safe, friendly environment for you to quickly set up roots in Stirling and feel at home in Scotland.
If you have any questions about Postgraduate Research at Stirling, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome:
We're really excited that you're joining us at the University of Stirling!
Here you'll find lots of information to help you make the best start to your studies and life at Stirling.
Get ready for a jam-packed schedule of welcome events designed to help you feel right at home.
From fun social activities to campus tours and opportunities to discover our amazing clubs, societies, and sports.
Check out our full line-up of events and dive into campus life from day one.
You'll find course-specific welcome events on your personalised timetable.
Before you arrive
You're so close to starting your Stirling journey!
There's a few things you need to tick off on your to-do list to ensure you hit the ground running and make the most of your time here from day one.
Your first week
Starting university is a very exciting time, and we're here to help you navigate your way through your first few weeks.
Late arrivals
If you are delayed and arriving after the start of semester, it’s important you complete a few key tasks to help you settle quickly into your studies.
Get all the info you need to get started on your academic life including semester dates, timetables and student learning services.
See what life is like at Stirling - get to know your campus, see how you can get involved and start exploring the city of Stirling.
You are now part of our diverse community of students, academic staff, support staff, partners and visitors.
See our advice on how to feel part of life at Stirling.
We know how important it is for you to get online and up and running with our IT so we've got a quick start guide for you.
We offer an extensive range of support services to help you fulfil your potential and make the most of your time here.
Welcome to our thriving Postgraduate Community.
Find out more about postgraduate study at Stirling.
Make sure you get the most out of your experience at the University of Stirling.
There's lots of opportunities for you to get ahead.
We take pride in offering a truly global education on a diverse, welcoming campus.
Before you get settled in, there are a few preparations you should make.
Welcome to Your Students’ Union!
Everything we do is aimed at making students’ lives better.
Students taking our online courses can also access all the services and benefits available to on-campus students.
See how to make the most of your online learning experience.
Get in touch
If you have any questions about starting at the University of Stirling or any aspect of student life please get in touch.
We're here to help you.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan:
"Everywhere is local – excellence is our standard"
What we do here – in the heart of Scotland – is transforming the lives of people across the world.
Proof that we make a difference can be demonstrated across the University, and in independent evaluations of our research and the quality of our teaching.
This strategic plan sets out the University’s direction to 2030 and beyond.
It builds on the strong momentum and success of our previous strategic plan, and it reinforces our ambition for excellence in all we do.
Our mission
"We strive for excellence in all we do, delivering world-leading teaching and research, supporting students to discover new knowledge and develop their skills, and making a difference to our region and the wider world."
We will be guided in our mission by our institutional values:
Ambition for our people, our institution, our city, region and the global community to be the best they can be.
Integrity in how we behave – being recognised as open, honest and trustworthy.
Respect and care for each other, harnessing inclusivity to enrich what we do and how we do it.
To make an impact on people's lives and be a force for good in the world.
Three key pillars underpin the delivery of our vision:
People: Our community supports one another to deliver excellence in all we do.
Place: From our roots in Stirling, we are making an impact regionally, nationally and globally.
Purpose: We are driven by our ambition to enhance lives and be a force for good in the world.
We will deliver our ambitions by maximising our resources and prioritising five focus areas:
Focusing on personal and academic growth to cultivate creative, responsible, skilled and resilient graduates.
Enhancing our culture of support for one another, enabling colleagues to develop and sustain fulfilling careers while delivering our ambitions individually and collectively.
Producing world-leading research and innovation with national and global impact.
Partnering with key players to make a difference in our city, region, nation and the wider world, and harnessing the power of our global alumni network to support the University’s mission.
Investing in our people’s physical and mental health, and enhancing society’s health and wellbeing through world-leading research and education.
If you want a sense of what Stirling is about, then the words of novelist and philosopher Iris Murdoch are worth considering: she said, education “opens our eyes, our ears”.
Murdoch believed “the educated mind” is liberating and transformative.
We know this to be true from the experience of seeing more than 110,000 Stirling students graduate.
Although we are a young university, our research and teaching is making a tangible difference to the world.
At Stirling we value ability, not background.
Hear more from Professor Sir Gerry McCormac about our strategic plan >
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac Principal and Vice-Chancellor

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling:
Get involved, get active and achieve your goals with sport, health and wellbeing at the University of Stirling.
Whether you’re a high-performance athlete, or just dipping your toe in the water, our world class facilities, wide range of sports courses and inclusive community will give you the motivation and inspiration you need to achieve your goals.
We are now officially an affiliated HYROX Training Club.
No matter your experience or abilities, HYROX training is a great way to reach new fitness levels in a fun and supportive environment.
See our membership options for students, staff and the community.
Book a class, session or facility.
Check opening times for the sports centre and view the swimming pool timetable.
Our health, fitness and wellbeing programme offers a comprehensive timetable of classes, workshops, clinics and personalised support to help you get active and enhance your physical and mental wellbeing.
Find out more about sports scholarships, see our range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and discover how sport research at Stirling is changing the game.
A range of scholarships are available for our world-renowned high performance sport programme – which offers you the opportunity to balance training and competition sport with your studies.
Our student sport programme has opportunities for everyone to get involved through a range of sports clubs and our recreational Just Play Sport programme.
Your sports facility in your pocket.
Make bookings, check schedules, get notifications and more.
Our sports facilities are ranked 1st in the UK and 2nd in the world (International Student Barometer 2024).
Take a closer look at what's on campus, including our gym spaces, swimming pool, tennis courts, sports halls and outdoor facilities.
University of Stirling Head of Golf set to lead Great Britain and Ireland into transatlantic battle
Podium place at major European triathlon competition

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties:
Our structure allows us to collaborate across disciplines, bringing fresh ideas and creativity to our research and thinking.
Our largest faculty has earned a reputation for delivering some of the most highly-rated Arts and Humanities courses in the country .
We’re the premier research-intensive education provider for nurses, midwives, health and sports professionals in Scotland.
If you want a career in natural sciences we'll inspire you to be the difference.
Our courses are highly-rated for their flexibility, practical training, and student satisfaction.
We’re a leading Faculty of Social Sciences and our rankings reflect this across our subject areas.
With a diverse range of globally recognised courses and a number of them accredited by leading industry bodies, we’ll help you to be the difference in your chosen career.
Institute for Advanced Studies
The Institute for Advanced Studies supports our growing and thriving postgraduate research community with resources and networking opportunities.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services:
Our professional services provide the highest level of support to our students and staff, enabling them to concentrate on learning and teaching.
Business and Enterprise
We offer a range of support services for business creation, development, innovation and growth.
Commercial Services
Commercial Services carry out a range of customer focused activities aimed at generating revenue for the University.
Communications, Marketing and Recruitment
We enhance and promote the University’s reputation for excellence, telling our stories across a wide range of communications channels to attract students to Stirling.
Estates and Campus Services
The team is responsible for looking after the University’s properties and grounds – from the longer-term development of our estate to the provision of day-to-day services.
Finance Office
We're responsible for the production of the University’s financial statements and for the administration of financial processes within the University.
Human Resources and Organisation Development
The team incorporates Human Resource Services, Organisation Development and Academic Development.
Information Services
Our Information Services' pages include details on how to access our online research repository, IT support, public library memberships and more.
Internationalisation and Partnerships
We are building strategic international partnerships, to promote research and teaching excellence with a global impact.
These partnerships are fundamental to sharing our core values with similar worldwide organisations.
Research, Innovation and Business Engagement
We provide wide-ranging support for the University's research community, like, helping with the acquisition of funding European initiatives, policy development and strategic matters.
Student, Academic and Corporate Services
We provide integrated and proactive professional services.
Our areas include Academic Registry, Student Skills and Employability, Student Services Hub, and Policy and Planning.
Sport
We’re at the heart of Scottish sport, transforming lives and society through sport and wellbeing for students, staff and local residents.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni:
Since the University of Stirling opened its doors in 1967, our alumni family has grown to more than 110,000 people in 180 countries.
The Development and Alumni Relations Team are dedicated to friend- and fund-raising through building relationships with alumni, friends, retired staff and benefactors to inspire support for a world-class research institute that prepares the leaders of tomorrow.
Our fundraising activities support students, widening access, employability, internationalisation, research, capital projects and the University Art Collection – all of which continue to improve the Stirling student experience.
Explore the links below to update your details, get in touch with old friends, discover the perks of being a Stirling graduate, or make a contribution that will benefit the students following in your footsteps.
Find out how your fellow graduates and other supporters are helping the University today.
From discounted gym memberships to life-long careers support, being a Stirling graduate entitles you to a wide range of benefits.
Join the thousands of University of Stirling graduates who are already connected on our official Facebook alumni page.
Make professional connections and network with fellow Stirling alumni on LinkedIn – our official group has over 5,000 members and counting.
Connect with alumni near you.
We have alumni ambassadors from Mexico to Mauritius, and events taking place all over the world.
Keep in touch
If you’d like to hear from us and take advantage of alumni benefits, please make sure we have your latest contact details.
Get help organising a reunion and take a look at the range of events open to University of Stirling alumni.
See what your classmates are up to now, read about notable alumni and discover more of the University's history.
Get a unique insight into the history of your University with a collectable 50 th anniversary book.
Our annual magazine updates you on events at the university and shares how students, staff and alumni are impacting the world.
Read it online or sign up to our mailing list to receive a hard copy.
Follow our alumni X and Instagram accounts for the latest information about what's going on at the University and beyond.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/work-at-stirling:
The essence of the University is its great people: its staff (1,800), students (18,000+) and alumni (100,000+) are helping to shape the world.
In 2021, the University retained its five-star QS rating, awarded to world-class universities.
With 140+ nationalities represented on campus, Stirling is a truly global university of distinction and an employer of choice.
From nurturing local Stirling talent to supporting global experts in their fields, our people are our most valuable asset.
At Stirling, we offer more than just a job.
We offer rewarding and exciting careers, and we encourage ambition, reward excellence and foster innovation.
Work at Stirling and help us make a real difference to society.
Find out more about the wide range of benefits you'll enjoy working at Stirling.
View all our current vacancies and create job alerts.
The strength of Stirling is its people.
We value ability and aim to retain and attract talented individuals and assist them in realising their full potential.
The level of engagement and enthusiasm shown by our students, staff and members of the global university community in developing this Plan, gives us the confidence that together we will achieve our future ambitions.
Eileen Schofield , Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary
Five-star rating
for teaching, employability, global engagement, research, facilities, environmental impact
World-leading
80% of research activity rated either world-leading or internationally excellent
REF 2021
We are proud to hold an institutional Athena Swan Silver Award .
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact the University of Stirling via contactSCOTLAND website , the online British Sign Language video relay interpreting service.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/getting-here:
The University of Stirling’s campus is just two miles from the centre of Stirling in central Scotland.
We're served by excellent fast public transport links from Glasgow and Edinburgh, and are easily accessible by bus, foot and bike from Stirling city centre or Bridge of Allan.
If you cannot access this map, you can call or email us for directions.
Our campus is a pleasant walk from both Stirling city centre and from Bridge of Allan.
On exiting Stirling Rail station turn right and follow Goosecroft Road until its junction with Wallace Street.
Turn right into Wallace Street (you will pass a large Tesco Store on your right).
At end of Wallace Street follow the underpass footpath and then cross the historic Old Stirling Bridge over the River Forth.
Carry straight on until you reach the pelican crossing at the junction of Cornton Road/Causewayhead Road.
Cross over at the crossing and then proceed straight along Causewayhead Road (A9), passing under the railway bridge and, on the right, the entrance to Stirling County Rugby Club.
Continue straight on up Causewayhead Road until reaching the Causewayhead roundabout.
Turn left at the Causeway head roundabout and follow the path along until reaching the pelican crossing at Wallace High School where you should cross to the pavement on the opposite side of the road.
Continue on the A9.
Thereafter you can opt to either access the University by:
From the train station make your way up to the A9 main road (road bridge crosses over the railway line).
Once on the main road, turn right and make your way into the town of Bridge of Allan.
Cross the road at the pelican crossing, located at the Allanwater Café, and then continue to make your way through the town.
Follow this route all the way through the town and out the other side.
The main entrance to the University of Stirling is located approximately one mile after leaving Bridge of Allan.
Our Stirling campus is easily accessible by bicycle and there are 433 bicycle spaces across campus.
Our campus has been awarded Cycling Friendly Campus status.
Campus cycling map
Cycling from Stirling train station to campus Cycling from Stirling train station to the campus couldn't be easier with the new cycle lanes.
Watch TESOL student Aiman on Facebook or Instagram as she follows the route from the station to the University and highlights some useful bike tools freely available on campus.
Bike repair stations
There are three outdoor bike repair stations at Willow Court, Sports Centre and under the Link Bridge.
There is also a repair toolkit, pump and puncture repair kits at Queens Court Security Reception.
Nextbikes run by Santander Cycles Stirling is a bike share scheme with locations throughout Stirling, Bridge of Allan and on our campus.
The University funds a corporate subscription with nextbike which allows all staff and students free use of the scheme and free rental of a bike for the first 30 minutes of every ride.
A small charge (50p per ½ hour) will apply for bike rentals longer than 30 minutes.
Sign-up today and find out where you can hire a bike from Nextbike locations within Stirling and elsewhere around Scotland and the UK.
University of Stirling staff can save over 25% money on the purchase of bikes and accessories and spread the costs through Cyclescheme .
Young people under the age of 22 who live in Scotland are entitled to free nationwide bus travel.
Find out more at freebus.scot .
Visit the Traveline Scotland website , Scotland's national public transport information service, to help plan your journey to and from campus by bus or coach.
Stirling is well connected by Scotland’s coach network and Stirling’s bus station is next to the train station.
You can check timetables on the Citylink website and find out more about Edinburgh Airport Bus Connections .
The University of Stirling has excellent bus links from Stirling city centre and some from Bridge of Allan.
The Unilink shuttle bus between Stirling centre, the train station and the main University campus is one of the handiest and most regular services.
A night bus service also serves the campus.
Most bus services to the campus run from either just outside Stirling's Rail Station or a two-minute walk away, in Murray Place.
Visit the Midland Bluebird website for the most up-to-date timetable information.
Buses to and from the campus and surrounding area are also operated by the providers listed below.
Visit their websites for the most up-to-date timetable information:
Stirling is at the heart of Scotland and enjoys excellent rail services to Scotland and the rest of the UK.
Regular services run between Edinburgh, Glasgow, Inverness, Aberdeen and Dundee.
Visit Scotrail or trainline.com for fares, timetables and journey information.
Bikes will be transported free of charge on most Scotrail services.
Find out More Scotrail information about transporting your bike on the train.
Our Stirling campus is a 40-minute walk from Stirling city centre or train station, and 30 minutes from Bridge of Allan train station.
Stirling train station is the easiest option to complete the journey by bus or taxi.
Bridge of Allan train station is the easiest option to complete the journey by walking or cycling.
From the East, South or West, take the M9 to Junction 11.
At the junction, there is a roundabout which marks the end of the M9.
From here you should take the exit for Bridge of Allan, follow the road through the town itself, and after about 200 metres you will find the University entrance on the left.
From the North take the A9 to the same roundabout and follow the same route through Bridge of Allan as above.
Park in a designated parking space.
Possession of a valid permit does not guarantee a parking space.
You can fly to either Edinburgh or Glasgow Airports from a wide range of international and domestic airports including regular shuttle flights from London airports.
At Edinburgh or Glasgow Airport regular buses or trams can take you to the city centres where you can then access frequent train services to Stirling.
Find out more at:
You can also pre-book a taxi in advance with Stirling Taxi s .
Driving from the airport
Glasgow Airport is approximately an hour drive to the University campus while Edinburgh Airport is a 45 minute drive.
Arriving via Dublin?
There is no routine passport control between Dublin and the UK.
This means that you may not pass through passport control in the UK if you arrive from Dublin.
If you arrive from Dublin with a Student visa you should keep your flight confirmation emails/papers about the Dublin-UK flight and carry them with you the next time you travel.
You will have to leave the UK and re-enter within three months of arrival so that your student visa can be activated.
This can obviously be costly so any savings made arriving in Dublin initially may be lost.
If you are traveling from Northern Ireland you can take advantage of the frequent sailings between the ports of Belfast and Cairnryan.
The drive from Cairnryan to the University of Stirling campus is approximately two and a half hours.
Parking charges apply Monday to Friday, 9.00am to 5.00pm , all year round (excluding Christmas and New Year's Day).
If you have a query about any aspect of car parking on campus, please contact the Car Parking Office, Cottrell Room 4Z2, +44 (0) 1786 466065.
Car parking information for visitors
Staff and students wishing to park on campus must purchase and display a valid car parking permit or purchase a valid parking ticket through the RingGo app or over the phone.
Car parking information for students
Car parking information for staff

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/students-union:
Helping to ensure students’ voices are always heard here at the University of Stirling, our Students’ Union exists to champion the causes that matter most to you.
The Union is a democratically elected body led by students, for students, and works to enhance your experience and opportunities at uni and beyond.
From offering academic representation and support, to overseeing clubs and award-winning facilities, the Students’ Union plays a key role in creating a positive, inclusive environment for all.
Take a closer look at the Union’s venues and services, see an A-Z of clubs and find out how you can get involved at the Stirling Students' Union website.
Students' Union website
Grab a coffee, meet friends for lunch or plan a big night out in our lively Students' Union venues.
Check out what's coming up in the Students' Union event calendar.
There's always something to look forward to.
University of Stirling merchandise
Our Students’ Union shop is home to branded clothing, sportswear and a range of unique gifts.
Shop online or drop into the store on campus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/policy-legal-and-cookies:
Thank you for visiting the University of Stirling ("the University") website.
The website is to be used by individual persons for their own personal use only.
Your use of this website is subject to the terms and conditions set out below and your accessing and use of the website constitutes your agreement to abide by such terms and conditions.
If you do not agree to these terms you should leave the website immediately.
The University reserves the right in its sole discretion to modify, alter or otherwise update these terms and conditions and its web pages at any time without further notice and you agree to be bound by any modifications, alterations or updates to these terms and conditions.
If you have any questions concerning the terms and conditions please write to the University Secretary at the address specified in paragraph 3 above.
© The University of Stirling.
All rights, including copyright, in the content of this website are reserved by the University of Stirling.
In accessing these Web pages, you agree that any downloading of content is for personal, non-commercial reference only.
No part of this website may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior consent of the University.
For rights clearance please contact the Web Team at webteam@stir.ac.uk , ​Communications, Marketing and Recruitment.
The content of the University’s external website is maintained by the Web Author.
At departmental and other levels, content is maintained locally.
Whilst every attempt is made to ensure that information is accurate and up-to-date, some information is subject to change.
The University will not be held liable for information that is subject to change and reserves the right to alter the content of the external website at any time.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/accessibility:
The University of Stirling is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This accessibility statement applies to the www.stir.ac.uk website .
It does not cover subdomains such as site-name.stir.ac.uk as these sites should be covered by their own accessibility statement.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and the exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
There are currently no known accessibility issues.
There are around 300 inaccessible documents still on our website that were created before 23 September 2023.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
However, we are aiming to phase out and replace these documents by the middle of 2025.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add an alternative format for pre-recorded audio published before 23 September 2020, because this is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Third party content displayed on our website that's under someone else’s control and which we have not paid for or developed is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Examples on stir.ac.uk include feeds from social media channels, DiscoverUni widgets on Undergraduate courses, Altmetric research publication feeds and social 'like' buttons.
This statement was first prepared on 19 December 2019.
It was last reviewed on 3 September 2024.
This website undergoes automated testing against the W3C WAI Web Content Accessibility Guidelines using the automated Siteimprove tool.
This tool scans 100% of our web pages every few days, and tests against all the criteria in the guidelines which are possible to automate.
The web team uses Siteimprove to assess the website for this accessibility statement.
The web team is responsible for the accessibility of stir.ac.uk.
The team is part of the Communications, Marketing and Recruitment directorate.
You can contact the web team with any queries or feedback on webteam@stir.ac.uk.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC ) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/modern-slavery-statement:
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ('the Act').
It aims to inform the University Court, our staff, students, and the public about the steps the University has taken, during the financial year ending 31 July 2024, in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking.
The University acknowledges that it has a duty to take a robust approach towards eradicating slavery and human trafficking in its business and throughout its supply chains and recognises that modern slavery is a significant global human rights issue.
This requirement is consistent with the shared vision and distinctive values which are at the heart of our Strategic Plan 2030.
We are a signatory to the SDG Accord , the University and College Sectors response to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The University is committed to running our business responsibly and ethically.
We are opposed to all forms of slavery and human trafficking and support the government's efforts to legislate against it.
We continually examine all our operations and practices to ensure that no one is subject to any form of slavery.
Our annual statement reports the actions the University has taken in the last financial year and explains what we are going to do in the future.
The University of Stirling is committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in its activities and supply chains.
The University procures a wide range of goods, services, and works from a diverse supplier base.
We acknowledge that modern slavery risks can be found in contracts and suppliers of all sizes and in any industry and economic sector.
The risk of modern slavery in the University’s direct and local activities is however low due to the mitigating measures that we have in place.
However, we recognise the potential risks linked to certain global supply chains.
Many of the University’s bought-in products and services are sourced through collaborative contracts and framework agreements.
We therefore work with the relevant contracting bodies and framework owners to ensure due diligence measures are employed during their procurement processes, as well as in our own.
The University’s supply chain consists of circa 15,000 unique suppliers.
Major non-pay spend categories are utilities, construction and maintenance, IT, professional services, lab equipment and consumables, and travel.
The University implements the UKUPC Sustain Code of Conduct (‘the Code’) for contracted suppliers as part of its standard requirements in its invitations to tender.
Section 1 of the Code prohibits forced, involuntary or underage labour.
The University's terms and conditions of purchase inform our suppliers of our expectations in respect of human rights and the elimination of modern slavery and human trafficking in their supply chains.
The University takes account of suppliers’ approaches to ‘Fair Work First,’ including the Living Wage, in line with the Scottish Government’s statutory guidance.
Measures included within the Public Contracts (Scotland) Regulation 2015 are embedded in all our procurement activities.
Every regulated procurement process undertaken by the University requires tenderers to disclose whether they, or any member of their organisation with decision‐making powers, has been convicted in the last five years of any offence under Part 1 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015 or under any provision referred to in the Schedule of the Act.
The University is a member of APUC and supplements its own efforts with support from that sectoral Centre of Expertise.
(See the APUC Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking statement).
APUC’s Responsible Procurement Policy informs a clear commitment to responsible procurement.
The University is an associate member of Electronics Watch (EW), an independent monitoring organisation working to achieve respect for labour rights in the global electronics industry through socially responsible public purchasing in Europe.
The procurement policies provide a broad regulatory regime under which all procurement activity must operate.
The procurement procedures translate these policies into processes and procedural standards.
Both the policies and the procedures take full cognisance of the legislative framework for public procurement in Scotland.
These policies collectively reinforce our adherence to Section 54 of the Act.
The risk of modern slavery occurring in the University’s workforce is mitigated by ensuring that staff are recruited following robust recruitment policies (including right to work pre-employment screening undertaken prior to all appointments being made).
We rigorously check that all new recruits have the right to work in the UK.
The University is committed to the highest standards of openness, probity, and accountability.
This policy is designed to encourage staff and other members of the University to speak up if they have any concerns at work.
Thereby, the University is able to promptly address any issues and improve the way we operate and the services we provide to students and other stakeholders.
The University continued to address modern slavery directly by setting minimum standards, using ‘fit for purpose’ specifications and by means of appropriate contract management.
Procurement managers continued to analyse ‘at risk’ supply chains as part of their ongoing category management activity.
Additional mitigating measures were adopted as appropriate.
APUC’s SCM (Supply Chain Management) tool is used by Procurement Services.
Through SCM, suppliers are asked to provide details of measures they take in relation to modern slavery in their supply chain, including any third-party accreditations and assessments to evidence this.
Procurement Services continued to raise awareness of modern slavery and human trafficking issues across the University community through its ongoing customer and stakeholder engagement.
In the reporting period, over 11% of our non-pay (and non-influenceable) spend was conducted with businesses that are monitored by the Ecovadis supply chain sustainability platform.
In financial year 2023/24 there were no requirements to terminate business with any suppliers on the grounds of contravention of the Modern Slavery Act.
We will implement and develop the following action plan to identify and mitigate any risks that modern slavery and human trafficking are present in our business and in our supply chains:
In March 2025, the Procurement Strategy will be revised.
This will reaffirm our commitment to mitigating the risk of modern slavery occurring in our supply chains.
A new policy will be drafted during 2025 which sets out the University’s commitments and responsibilities in relation to modern slavery.
The University is seeking to become an accredited real Living Wage employer.
When an organisation achieves real Living Wage accreditation, it commits to ensuring that workers, including in scope contractors, subcontractors, and staff hired through agencies, are paid at least the real Living Wage.
Procurement processes for certain services will require to be reviewed and revised as appropriate.
Procurement Services will continue to use the EcoVadis supply chain sustainability platform to access better corporate social responsibility (CSR) data on our supply chain.
EcoVadis assess suppliers across twenty-one sustainability criteria in four themes, environment, labour & human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement, based on leading international standards.
We will seek to increase the number of our suppliers that are monitored by Ecovadis.
We will investigate if/how we can better encourage our students to think of slavery and other human rights violations.
We will explore how modern slavery is addressed in our teaching offer and in our academic research and what collaborative (i.e.
faculties-professional services) working opportunities might exist.
This statement will be reviewed annually.
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac, Principal and Vice‐Chancellor

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug:
Come to an open day
Scholarships for Undergraduate students
Clearing 2025: find your place

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/pg-taught:
Postgraduate open days
Scholarships for Postgraduate students

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us:
Our stunning 330-acre campus is located in the centre of Scotland and attracts students and their families to the University from all over the world.
But don't just take our word for it.
There's lots of different ways you can come and see if Stirling is the place for you:
Check out our diverse range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses and chat to staff and students to get a taste of what life as a Stirling student is really like.
Our Postgraduate Open Day on 26 March 2025 gives you the perfect opportunity to find out more about studying at Stirling.
Our Undergraduate Open Days let you find out about our courses, learn about the application process and explore our beautiful campus.
We are offering the opportunity for prospective students, applicants and their families to visit the campus.
Visits take place every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, subject to availability.
Campus tour dates may be subject to change, however, we will endeavour to give as much notice as possible should a tour have to be cancelled.
If you're ready to start exploring campus right now, our virtual tour lets you take a closer look at what makes the University of Stirling so special.
Our student recruitment team attend many different events and exhibitions across the UK.
Come along and meet the team to ask any questions you have about the University of Stirling or higher education.
Meet us at UCAS exhibitions throughout the year.
Our recruitment team are here to help you with any aspects of Higher Education or the University of Stirling.
We visit schools, colleges and universities, and attend events throughout the UK.
Get in touch with the team to find out if we’re attending one near you, or if you have an event you would like us to attend.
All undergraduate offer holders will be invited to our Offer Holder Day on Saturday 5 April 2025 which gives you a taste of life as a Stirling student.
You can find out more about your course and chat to staff and students.
You'll also be able to explore our beautiful campus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/webinars:
Join one of our course specific webinars or general webinars to find out more about studying at the University of Stirling.
Our course-specific and general webinars cover a range of topics.
If your course of interest is not listed, or you have any other questions abut applying, please contact us to find out more.
We're always happy to help, and can't wait to hear from you!
Get in touch.
Ask us a question

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/accounting-and-finance:
Accounting and Finance is part of a fast-paced financial industry, and with the advances in technology being utilised it has a real influence on the modern world.
It is concerned with the theories around money, business and management.
Areas of study include accounting, banking, finance, economics and investment analysis.
Studying Accounting and Finance courses at the University of Stirling allows you to prepare, present and interpret financial information for a wide range of businesses and organisations, empowering investors, lenders, management and others to make key decisions based on financial facts.
Courses labelled  are available for online study only.
Economics
We offer a variety of scholarship and funding options to help you finance your studies at the University of Stirling.
See more undergraduate scholarships
See more postgraduate scholarships
The University of Stirling is accredited by AACSB International in recognition of our excellence in business education.
This puts the University of Stirling Business School among the top 6% of business schools globally.
Our Accounting and Finance courses give students a firm grasp of the theoretical and analytical skills needed in the industry.
Graduates are well positioned to follow a career in a range of business roles such as: banking, fund management, security dealing, investment analysis, financial market regulation, treasury management, corporate finance, financial engineering and corporate finance work within merchant banking firms.
Stirling graduates work for many different financial and banking organisations across the globe, including:
Many of our courses are accredited and recognised within the industry:
Demonstrating the University of Stirling Business School’s strong international focus is our membership of the following organisations:
We have an international reputation for producing top class research and teaching, with two global partnership hubs:
Our Accounting and Finance research is recognised as being academically excellent, policy relevant, and of benefit to society.
It aims to improve sustainable and responsible governance and reporting, the financial well-being of individuals, and market efficiencies.
The public interest is pursued by exploring and improving the interaction and the discharge of accountability between organisations, individuals and society.
Find out more about Accounting and Finance research .
The Accounting and Finance Division at Stirling offers a stimulating environment in which to study towards a PhD.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Accounting and Finance.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/aquaculture:
Aquaculture, or aquatic agriculture, is the cultivation and farming of fish, crustaceans, aquatic plants, algae and shellfish in freshwater and marine environments.
Aquaculture is one of the fastest growing food producing sectors in the world, producing 50 percent of all fish for human consumption.
The Institute of Aquaculture , based at the University of Stirling, is an international centre and the largest of its kind in the world.
Their pioneering work tackles the global problems of food security, hunger and sustainability through aquaculture.
In 2021, The Institute of Aquaculture ranked 1st in the UK for research impact in Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science (REF 2021).
With our global reputation for teaching and world-class research, our innovative aquaculture degrees and CPD courses teach you everything you need to know for a career in aquaculture, marine biology and related areas such as pharmacy and biotechnology.
Aquaculture and marine science graduates are well equipped to work in a wide range of careers in the fast growing aquaculture industry.
In Scotland, salmon aquaculture revenue alone is now estimated to be worth £1.86 billion annually to the economy and supports over 8,300 jobs.
The level of industrialisation within the sector is still rather underdeveloped in terms of technological applications of nutrition, genetics, health and technology.
As a result, there are a multitude of career opportunities available, including:
Aquaculture degrees also open up a wide range of more general graduate employment opportunities to you, such as working with biotechnological companies, bioinformatics, health and clinical sciences, forensic science, medical sales and marketing, science journalism and teaching.
The Institute of Aquaculture has secured funding for a major redevelopment of its facilities.
The Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal is providing £17 million for a new Aquaculture Hub .
Currently, we’ve four research facilities providing a range of environmental conditions: marine, freshwater, temperate and tropical.
The Institute of Aquaculture provides consultancy, scientific collaborations and expertise to develop new technology and practice in aquaculture.
We work extensively with global aquaculture businesses as well as governmental and regional decision-making bodes.
Our marine and freshwater facilities are available to conduct commercial research and we offer a commercial analytical service for the feed and food sector.
We're a global leader in Aquaculture research , supporting the development of aquaculture worldwide.
The Institute of Aquaculture was awarded the UK’s most prestigious academic honour, the Queen’s Anniversary Prize, in honour of its pioneering work in the world’s fastest-growing food production sector in a bid to tackle global hunger .
Our experts are working to tackle global problems of food security, hunger and sustainability through aquaculture.
Their research focuses on:
Aquaculture research is at the forefront of one of University’s research programmes Global Food Security .
The University of Stirling is a global leader in aquaculture research and teaching, supporting the development of aquaculture worldwide.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Aquaculture and Aquatic Veterinary Studies.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/biology:
Study Biology and you study life.
Biology degree courses explore the full scope of life: from bacteria to blue whales, from enzymes to ecosystems.
The University of Stirling Biology courses train you in laboratory and field skills across the entire scope of biology, from cell biology through to ecology.
Biology degree students develop sound practical skills and become involved with our research, giving them the opportunity to contribute to important biological discoveries.
Stirling is the perfect place to study Biology with wild landscapes and habitats on our doorstep.
We are a hub for conservation activity in Scotland and link up with many environmental and conservation organisations across the world.
Environmental Science
Our Biology graduates progress to successful careers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agricultural industries.
Many find employment in:
In addition, there is a wide range of more general graduate employment for Biology graduates, which includes:
About one third of our recent Biology graduates have continued their studies to obtain a further qualification, such as a Masters degree or PhD.
Our campus is a conservation hub for organisations including the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, Scottish Natural Heritage, British Trust for Ornithology and the Bumblebee Conservation Trust.
We work closely with these and other organisations, such as the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, in conducting research, arranging placements and field training, and developing our Biology courses.
We also have links with environmental science organisations throughout the UK and overseas, including the International Union for Conservation of Nature, European Environment Agency, Gabonese National Parks Service, and the Norwegian Institute for Nature Research.
We’ve worked with Scottish employers to develop our Applied Biological Sciences course, to help solve skills shortages in the life sciences sector.
We’re world leaders in Biological and Environmental research.
We seek to understand the fundamental processes driving the evolution and maintenance of biodiversity – from how environments and ecosystems have changed over time, to predicting and mitigating the future impacts of anthropogenic change and natural hazards.
We’re involved with many international projects around the world, including in Malaysia, Botswana, Nigeria, Iceland, Norway, Greenland, Ukraine, Hungary and China.
We consistently attract major research grant support from the Natural Environment Research Council, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, the Leverhulme Trust, charitable trusts and industrial sponsors.
Our key areas of research:
Study for a Biology, Ecology or Environmental Science PhD or MPhil at the University of Stirling and you’ll be supervised by experienced and expert staff.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Biological and Environmental Sciences.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/business-and-management:
Business and Management is a wide and varied field focused on how organisations operate and innovate to meet global commerce demands and challenges.
Core areas include Data Science, Business Administration, Behavioural Science, Human Resource Management, Marketing, International Business, Sport Business, Sustainable Business and Social Enterprise.
At the University of Stirling Business School our internationally recognised academics deliver an industry-focused curriculum.
We have a diverse range of business and management courses with many of them being accredited by leading industry bodies, so you can gain both the knowledge and practical skills you need to become a successful business professional.
The University of Stirling Business School offer executive education programmes to organisations and businesses to help you make an impact with your industry.
Accounting and Finance
Marketing and Public Relations (PR)
Our Business School helps you to maximise your career after graduation.
Everything you do while studying here is designed to help you build the personal skills that will make you stand out to future employers.
Business and Management graduates from the University of Stirling are working in many countries around the world for companies and public sector organisations such as:
Sectors that Business and Management graduates can take up roles in include:
University of Stirling Business School is accredited by the Small Business Charter (SBC) for our work to support small businesses, local economies and student enterprise.
Research in the University of Stirling Business School covers all aspects of contemporary Business and Management.
We’re leaders in retail research, including town centre regeneration and community retail enterprises.
Our wellbeing and ageing research, as well as our privacy and surveillance research has helped in shaping government policies.
The main areas are:
As a globally-connected and research-led school, we have a thriving multidisciplinary research community and offer a wide range of research degrees.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Management and Organisation and our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Marketing .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science-and-software-engineering:
Our modern world works because of computer scientists.
They develop the systems that are the foundation and glue of our society, and transform our experiences in communications, business, entertainment, gaming and healthcare.
University of Stirling Computing Science and Software Engineering degrees will teach you how to design, build and analyse computer systems alongside creativity, logical analysis, problem-solving and how teamwork builds complex systems.
You’ll study practice and techniques for real-world software design and associated programming technologies.
Our degrees are highly practical to address skill shortages and help you step into your career.
Our undergraduate courses offer three-month and one-year placements with local small and medium enterprise businesses as well as large corporates.
We are top 5 in Scotland and top 20 in the UK for Computer Science and Information Systems (The Guardian University Guide 2025).
Our Computer Science and Software Engineering graduates are in high-demand in the many fields in which computer systems are extensively used and developed.
Jobs directly related to a Computer Science or Software Engineering degree include:
Our graduates emerge from our courses with a wide range of IT skills and knowledge.
Recent destinations for our graduates include KANA, Logica, Microsoft, Agilent, DERA, Marconi Systems, Adobe Systems Inc., Xerox, Google, HSBC, and Scottish Power.
We have strong links with Scottish industry through its Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) – with members from both Scottish and international companies such as IBM, HSBC and Adobe.
We are a member of The Data Lab, which is an innovation centre with the aim of developing data science talent and skills required by the industry in Scotland.
Our Computing Science and Software Engineering undergraduate courses are accredited by the British Computer Society.
Our BSc (Hons) Software Development with Cyber Security course was developed with our business partners in the IT sector to help solve their skills shortages.
We provide a stimulating and lively environment for students, research fellows and visitors.
Our Computing Science division is part of the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) - a Scotland-wide pooling initiative to exchange research and knowledge.
We develop and deploy new computational and mathematical approaches to tackle complex real-world problems.
Our research explores the interfaces between computer science, mathematics, life and health sciences, as well as management, finance and social sciences.
As a PhD student researching Computing Science at Stirling, you’ll benefit from the support and expertise of leading academics who encourage you to think outside the box and tackle real problems affecting industry and society.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Computing Science and Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/criminology:
Criminology studies crimes and their causes, effects, and social impact.
Learn how to ‘think like a criminologist’ and apply Criminology to the context of modern life, social diversity and inequalities in society.
Criminologists are interested in how activities are defined as criminal, explanations for crime and social reactions to crime.
We're ranked 1st in Scotland and Top 15 in the UK for Criminology (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Our Criminology courses explore fascinating questions surrounding the criminal justice system, the social contexts of crime, and the relationship between behaviour and punishment:
Law
Our Criminology graduates are in demand for a wide range of roles throughout the private, public and voluntary sectors.
The skills you’ll learn in critical thinking, analysis, and problem solving are highly valued by employers and will give you the edge in the job market.
Criminology can give you a career in areas such as:
We have strong links with organisations situated on the University of Stirling campus.
These include the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research , The Scottish Institute for Policing Research , and the Salvation Army Centre for Addiction Services and Research .
We are involved in the Drugs Research Network for Scotland .
The network aims to develop collaborative research across disciplines, organisations and countries to generate high-quality evidence that will inform developments in police and practice.
Criminology research is carried out in the Faculty of Social Science.
Underlining the expertise of our staff, we scored highly in the recent Research Excellence Framework 2021 – a UK-wide assessment of universities’ research output.
In the Social Work and Social Policy unit of assessment, we ranked 3rd in Scotland and top 25 in the UK – with 100% of our research environment and 88% of our research deemed world leading or internationally excellent.
The Crime and Justice Research Group
Research activities are focused thematically around four key areas:
Our research findings have been shared widely, making significant contributions to knowledge and informing policy and practice development within Scotland and internationally.
We work with policymakers, practitioners, communities and the public to collaboratively build just societies.
Our research group and the Faculty of Social Sciences co-host the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research (SCCJR) , a partnership between the Universities of Glasgow, Stirling, Edinburgh, and Strathclyde.
We also host the Salvation Army Centre for Addiction Services and Research (SACASR) and are a member of the Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) consortium.
Our world-class teaching is underpinned by leading-edge empirical and theoretical research in a vibrant, multi-disciplinary environment which welcomes and supports PhD researchers in achieving their goals.
See all our PhD opportunities in Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/data-science-and-data-analytics:
Data Science and Data Analytics are related subjects but they have distinct differences.
Data Science is a broad term for developing and using scientific methods, processes and algorithms to analyse large sets of raw and structured data such as big data.
Data scientists look for answers to questions that businesses and organisations don’t know, or establish solutions to problems that haven’t yet been thought of.
Data Analytics is more focused and concentrates on carrying out statistical analysis on existing data sets.
It can be used to measure events in the past, present, or future.
Data Analytics tends to be more business and strategy focused.
Core skills needed in Data Science and Data Analytics include programming, machine learning, statistics and statistical analysis.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is also becoming important due to advances in data driven AI.
Hear from Dr Kevin Swingler, Senior Lecturer, explaining how the University of Stirling’s Data Science courses will equip you to play a vital role in the future of data.
As a graduate in Data Science or Data Analytics you’ll be equipped for roles such as Data Analyst, Data Scientist, Data Engineer, Enterprise Architect, Machine Learning Scientist and Business Intelligence Developer.
A wide range of sectors need data specialists including:
We are a member of The Data Lab , which is an Innovation Centre with the aim of developing data science talent and skills required by the industry in Scotland.
We also work with the Scottish Informatics and Computing Science Alliance (SICSA).
Our MSc Data Science for Business degree is endorsed by The Data Lab and is the first in Scotland to be developed with inputs from SAS, a global leader in business analytics solutions, leading financial services organisation HSBC and The Data Lab to ensure it meets industry needs
Our team of academics from the department of Computing Science and Mathematics are involved in research in areas including complex systems modelling, computer vision, machine learning, optimisation and artificial intelligence.
See more about our Data Science and Intelligent Systems research .
Postgraduate research opportunities
Our Professional Doctorate Data Science is the first industrial doctorate of its kind, and is supported by The Data Lab.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Computing Science and Mathematics including Data Science.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/economics:
Economics is a social science which examines the production, distribution and consumption of goods and services.
Studying economics lets you understand how people interact with others and their surroundings.
You’ll also investigate worldwide issues within a historical and philosophical context, and learn how to apply your knowledge for the good of business and society.
At the University of Stirling Business School , our economics courses are taught in an innovative new way through our commitment to the CORE Project – “Economics for a Changing World”.
We place great emphasis on applying economic thinking to real world business and policy challenges.
You’ll gain strong analytical skills along with the knowledge and practical skills you need to gain success in your chosen career.
University of Stirling Business School offer executive education programmes to organisations and businesses to help you make an impact with your industry.
Business and Management
University of Stirling Business School helps you to maximise your career after graduating with an Economics degree.
Everything you do while studying here is designed to help you build the transferrable skills that will make you stand out to future employers.
Your career prospects are also enhanced by our excellent links with business and policy think tanks.
Graduates with a degree in Economics are highly employable and pursue careers in many different areas.
The types of roles our graduates enter include:
Our Economics research has a focus on public and social policy outcomes.
We use behavioural science approaches to increase our understanding of how people and firms make decisions and to inform how environmental, energy and health policy can be made more effective.
Our key areas of interest are:
Our researchers work across many areas and contribute to the work in interdisciplinary research centres.
Our Economics PhD programme is affiliated with the prestigious Scottish Graduate Programme in Economics and is accredited by the Economic and Social Research Council.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Economics.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/english-and-literature:
Text and works of literature are all around us.
From books and plays to magazines and web content, you can learn how to analyse these works by studying English or Literature.
Finding meaning within texts is a highly-valued skill required in many job professions.
Our English and Literature courses cover a wide range of areas, such as:
At the University of Stirling, you can study literary works from the medieval period to the present day.
You can also learn about linguistics, develop your creative writing skills and delve into the history of the English language.
Stirling English and Literature degrees are highly regarded.
We're ranked 1st in Scotland for Literature in English (National Student Survey (2024), and top 20 in the UK for English (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024).
English and Literature courses at the University of Stirling provide you with a solid grounding for a wide range of positions.
Many of our graduates go on to careers in areas such as:
Others have gone into specialist areas like linguistic consultancy and speech therapy.
Former English Studies graduates from the University of Stirling include novelists Iain Banks and Alan Bissett, journalist Grace Dent and Scottish poet laureate Jackie Kay MBE.
Research in English and Literature at the University of Stirling encompasses creative practice and the study of global literatures, languages and cultures from the medieval period to the present day.
The research interests of expert academic staff cut across other disciplines within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and include:
The Faculty of Arts and Humanities offers a diverse range of opportunities for research students interested in pursuing a PhD by research, publication or by practice.
See our English and Literature PhD and MPhil opportunities.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/environmental-science:
Environmental Science combines physical, biological and chemical sciences to study the environment and discover solutions to environmental problems such as climate change, pollution, loss of biodiversity and the sustainable provision of energy, food, and clean water.
Our Environmental Science courses blend scientific knowledge and technical training.
You'll gain the analytical, field and laboratory skills to understand the complex interactions between people and the environment.
Our research-led teaching ensures you are up-to-date with the latest knowledge.
Stirling is a superb place to study Environmental Science with a proud history of innovation in environmental research and study.
We were one of the first UK universities to introduce an Environmental Science course.
Stirling is also a hub for conservation and environmental organisations and we’re ideally located for diverse landscapes and industrial sites.
Biology
Our Environmental Science degrees focus on scientific knowledge and technical training to create genuine career opportunities with a wide range of organisations, including water authorities, research institutes, renewable energy companies, conservation bodies, businesses, local authorities and government agencies.
Graduates from our Environmental Science degrees enjoy successful careers around the world in areas such as environmental consultancy, transport planning, waste management, environmental protection agencies, education and ecotourism.
Jobs directly related to an Environmental Science degree include:
Many of our Environmental Science degrees are accredited by the Institute of Environmental Sciences (IES).
Our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science degree course is also accredited by the Committee of Heads of Environmental Sciences.
On our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Outdoor Education degree, students have the opportunity to gain the Mountain Leader Award, endorsed by the Mountain Training Association.
The University of Stirling is a hub for conservation activity in Scotland.
Several organisations have offices on our campus, including the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, Scottish Natural Heritage, British Trust for Ornithology and the Bumblebee Conservation Trust.
We work closely with these and other organisations, such as the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, in conducting research, arranging placements and field training, and developing our Environmental Science courses.
We also have links with Environmental Science organisations throughout the UK and overseas, including the International Union for Conservation of Nature, European Environment Agency, Gabonese National Parks Service, Norwegian Institute for Nature Research.
The Stirling Controlled Environment Facility is a world-class experimental facility for conducting experimental research investigating the impacts of climate and climate change.
We also have 11 specialist laboratories supporting a wide range of research interests from ecology to analytical chemistry to thin section and micromorphology.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), 100% of our Biological and Environmental Sciences research was rated as having either outstanding or very considerable impact – ranking us joint 12th in the UK for Geography and Environmental Studies research.
We consistently attract major research grants and our research impact positions us as leaders in the area of Environmental Science, Environmental Protection and Biological Conservation.
Postgraduate research students in Environmental Science will join a vibrant research environment in which we seek to understand the fundamental processes driving the evolution and maintenance of biodiversity, from the molecular to the ecosystem level.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Biological and Environmental Sciences including Ecology.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/film-and-media-studies:
Film and media is one of the most popular art forms across the world and is one that is constantly evolving.
It can inform, shock and entertain us in a way that few other creative art forms can.
Film and media helps to represent local, national and global cultures as well as giving individuals a platform for expression.
Film and Media Studies is a dynamic subject area, bringing together theory and practice.
Topics include:
Film and Media courses at Stirling are consistently ranked among the best in the UK.
We're ranked 2nd in Scotland for Media and Film Studies (The Guardian University Guide 2025).
We work with industry to develop course content.
By striking a balance between practical training and critical thinking, we help to prepare you to meet the challenges of a career in digital media, broadcasting, television, film and more.
The rapidly changing industries of television, film and media need graduates with the cutting-edge skills that can be readily applied in all types of roles.
Many of our graduates have established successful careers in the media in areas such as:
Some of our Film and Media graduates are currently working for the following organisations:
Our close partnerships with industry offer excellent opportunities for networking and industry experience.
Many of our Film and Media courses have been designed in conjunction with industry practitioners.
Students study in a stimulating environment with access to state-of-the-art kit, a modern suite of media facilities for radio and television production.
There’s also opportunities to be part of our campus television, filmmaking and radio stations.
Film and Media research at the University of Stirling is carried out by the Communications, Media and Culture research group .
100% of our research environment and 88% of our overall research in Communication, Cultural and Media Studies was classed as world leading or internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework 2021, positioning us 2nd in Scotland overall for our research.
Our work encompasses research into screen and print media, digital and social media, public communication and promotional culture, heritage and archives.
Film and Media Studies postgraduate research students benefit from all our academic expertise – and play a key part in contributing to it in a supportive, vibrant research environment.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Communications, Media and Culture.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/geography:
Geography is the study of the shape and features of the Earth’s surface along with the complex relationships between people and their environments.
Environmental Geography degree courses at the University of Stirling seek to make sense of our changing world.
Studying Environmental Geography helps you to make sense of the world we live in by bridging physical geography and social sciences; developing expert knowledge and skills to research, analyse and communicate how natural and human-mediated environmental change affects the well-being of the planet.
Our courses are designed to give students essential intellectual and reasoning skills, field- and laboratory- based skills and geo-spatial skills which are all highly valued by a wide range of employers.
University of Stirling Geography degree graduates are equipped with a unique combination of subject-specific and transferable skills.
Our combined approach will allow you to enter a wide range of relevant careers in education, conservation and environment professions, science and technology professions, travel and related occupations, and sports and fitness occupations.
Our graduates have found employment as:
We’ve strong links with environmental employers working with businesses, government and charities on a range of environmental issues to provide real-world experience for all of our students.
We have well-established course links with the University of Guelph in Canada.
Environmental Geography undergraduate students may spend either one or two semesters during Year 3 giving them the opportunity to broaden their geographical and cultural experience.
Geography research at the University of Stirling is carried by the Biological and Environmental Sciences research group.
They have a unique focus on the relationships between people and the environment and our research findings are used to inform policy makers and practitioners in conservation and environmental regulation, planning and management.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), 100% of our Geography and Environmental Studies research was rated as having either outstanding or very considerable impact – ranking us joint 12th in the UK.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/health-and-allied-subjects:
Health and Allied Health subjects cover a broad range of areas which all share the common aim of improving the health and well-being of society.
As the world is continually evolving, so do healthcare and social needs.
Studying health or an allied health subject allows you to make a difference in the lives of individuals, patients, carers and communities.
Health and Allied Subjects offered at Stirling include:
At Stirling, our Health and Allied Subjects courses integrate academic learning, research and professional practice.
You learn the most up-to-date advances in healthcare through our innovative, research-led courses.
We partner with healthcare professionals and providers to ensure our courses give you the practical and modern skills needed to excel in your career.
Our CPD and short course portfolio includes modules from our BSc Professional Practice and MSc Advancing Practice courses, which can be studied as stand-alone modules for the continuing professional development of qualified nurses, midwives and allied health professionals.
Nursing
Studying Health and Allied Health Subjects can lead to a rewarding career in healthcare and social sectors.
Many of our courses provide a professional pathway to your chosen career.
With a Health or Allied Health Subject degree you could go into the following areas:
We work with many different partners and collaborate with them on course content and delivery:
One of the University’s key research themes is Living Well which looks at improving global well-being by helping people maintain, achieve or regain good health.
In REF 2021, 100% of our research environment, 80% of our research impact and 83% of our overall research in Allied Health Professions and Nursing was classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
We have number of health research programmes including:
Study for a Health Sciences PhD or MPhil at the University of Stirling and you’ll join a friendly postgraduate health science community.
Our PhD students are supervised and supported by leading academics who have outstanding multidisciplinary research records.
Our Clinical Doctorate is the only one of its kind in Scotland, tailored to the needs of nurses, midwives and allied health professionals.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Health Sciences.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/history:
To really understand the modern world you need to unlock the patterns of the past.
Studying History and Heritage helps you to do just that by journeying through the major events and periods that have shaped society.
There are so many types of history to delve into, including political, social, cultural, gender, environmental and digital.
History courses at Stirling let you explore your passion for history while gaining the theoretical and transferable skills needed to help you in your chosen career.
You’re taught by history and heritage experts who are leaders in their field.
Areas of study include Scottish, British, European, American and African history alongside cultural, environmental and digital heritage.
Graduating with a History degree from the University of Stirling opens up many career opportunities in a range of sectors, from museums and heritage trusts to arts management and the civil service.
Jobs directly related to a History degree include:
The transferable skills gained throughout our History courses can also support your career development in areas such as archaeology, tourism, creative industries, journalism and marketing.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021, we ranked in the top 15 in the UK for research impact and 3rd in Scotland for outputs and impact.
83% of our research impact in History is classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
Find out more about our History research .
Study for a PhD or MPhil in History at the University of Stirling and you’ll be part of a dynamic culture where collaboration is key, international links abound and the desire to make a meaningful contribution to society is always at the forefront of our minds.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in History.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/journalism-and-publishing:
Journalism is all about keeping the world informed through information sharing.
The digital age has transformed the way news is reported and consumed, with more media platforms available than ever before.
Publishing was traditionally concerned with the distribution of printed media such as books, newspapers and magazines.
However with the rise of digital media it now includes electronic publishing such as eBooks, blogs and websites.
With over 30 years of experience in researching and teaching Journalism and Publishing, we have established a reputation as one of the UK’s top institutions in the field.
We're ranked 2nd in Scotland for Journalism, and 3rd in Scotland for Marketing and Public Relations (The Guardian University Guide 2025).
The University of Stirling’s Journalism and Publishing courses cover both theoretical and practical aspects, and offer an in-depth, critical understanding of the practices.
We encourage our students to undertake work experience, which many have done in national and regional media organisations including the BBC, Channel 4, Harper Collins, the Herald, Publishing Scotland, the Daily Record and the Sunday Mail.
Our Journalism and Publishing courses open the door to a range of careers where creativity, writing, communication and research skills are invaluable.
Many of our graduates have established successful careers in the media and publishing in areas such as:
Our graduates have won many awards in a variety of media specialisms.
These awards include BAFTAs in investigative reporting, programme production and scriptwriting; Sony Gold Radio Academy awards for BBC Radio 1 documentaries; and Emmy awards for visual effects production in film and TV.
The University is the host for the annual Focus on Scotland Factual Television Festival .
The festival brings together leading decision-makers and experts from the industry with our students for workshops, lectures and invaluable opportunities to connect and share ideas.
Journalism and Communication research at the University of Stirling is carried out by the Communications, Media and Culture research group .
Their work encompasses research into screen and print media, digital and social media, public communication and promotional culture, heritage and archives.
The Stirling Centre for International Publishing and Book Cultures was established in 1982, and has since developed a global reputation for its research activities, and its industry links.
The centre focuses on book, magazine, journal and digital publishing.
Through their research, the centre critically analyses the past, present and future of publishing.
As a Journalism or Publishing research student at the University of Stirling you'll work with research specialists in journalism and public relations in addition to researchers working on many aspects of media representation, media institutions, media and communications policy, and also on numerous relationships between media, culture and society.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Communications, Media and Culture including Journalism

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/languages-and-tesol:
Globalisation, ease of travel and technological advances bring the world closer to everyone.
Studying Languages opens up a world of opportunity for you.
Languages at Stirling include French and Spanish.
Studying Languages is not just about learning how to speak, read and write the language but also immersing yourself in the culture through film, history, politics, art and music.
At Stirling, you'll study Spanish with Latin American Studies.
You'll also get the chance to spend time studying abroad.
TESOL stands for Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages.
Our Masters courses at Stirling provide advanced training and professional qualification in TESOL.
Our courses are suitable for people already teaching English as a foreign or second language, and people who are new to TESOL and looking for a career change or professional development.
We have on-campus and online courses available.
Dr Adnan Yilmaz, TESOL Programme Director, talks about studying TESOL at Stirling.
Our language courses are highly rated.
We're ranked 2nd in Scotland and top 10 in the UK for Iberian languages, and 3rd in Scotland and top 15 in the UK for French (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
We're also members of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting (ITI) .
Graduates can use language skills in almost any career.
Multilingual candidates are highly sought after by employers, so a language degree will unlock a world of opportunities.
Recent language graduates at Stirling have gone on to work in publishing, journalism, television, advertising, translation, interpreting, commerce, civil service, law and teaching.
Our students in TESOL can start teaching as soon as they graduate, with the knowledge, skills and confidence to work both at home and overseas in:
Some graduates have found positions with the British Council or private language schools.
Our MSc TESOL international graduates are also well prepared to sit all three modules of the in-demand University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations TKT.
Literature and languages research at Stirling opens up many new possibilities for students and researchers in numerous related areas, including Religion and Translation.
100% of our research environment in English Language and Literature is classed as world leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
TESOL is part of our Education research group .
Study for a PhD in French and you’ll benefit from our international partnerships and broad and deep specialisms in Francophone Studies, especially Africa and Canada/Quebec, as well as metropolitan France.
In Spanish postgraduate research you’ll benefit from our international partnerships and broad expertise in film and visual cultures, literary writing and theory, postcolonial studies and more.
See all our PhD and MPhil opportunities in literature and languages including French and Spanish.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/law:
Law is the system of rules a community or country uses to regulate the behaviour of its citizens, and how justice is brought within society.
The subject of Law encompasses many areas, including Criminal Law, Public Law, Legal Systems, Contract Law, Family Law, Property Law, Commercial Law, Human Rights, Energy Law and more.
Law courses at Stirling can help you take the first step in becoming a lawyer or entering a range of other prestigious professions.
You’ll gain a firm grounding in essential subjects and enjoy the freedom to specialise in the areas that interest you most.
Our Law courses are highly rated.
We ranked Top 5 in Scotland for Law (Complete University Guide 2025).
Criminology
Our LLB Law degree is accredited by the Law Society of Scotland and the Faculty of Advocates.
Our Human Rights and Diplomacy programme is taught in partnership with the leading training body of the United Nations: the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR).
Law is recognised as one of the most useful degrees for a wide range of career paths and is highly valued by employers.
Law courses at Stirling give you a host of legal and professional skills that can be used in your chosen field.
Graduating with the Stirling LLB will enable students who want to become Scots lawyers to apply for entry to the Diploma in Professional Practice, the next step to becoming a lawyer.
Our Law graduates are well-placed to pursue careers in:
Our Law School has a strong reputation for excellence in research, with 100% of our research impact and 82% of our overall research in Law classed as world leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
Research is centred around a number of areas, reflecting staff expertise: Private Law, Environmental and Energy Law, Public Law, Competition Law, Intellectual Property and Legal Philosophy.
Find out more about our Law research .
Postgraduate students undertaking a PhD or MPhil in Law at the University benefit directly from our vibrant, interdisciplinary research environment.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in law.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/marketing-and-public-relations-pr:
Marketing and Public Relations (PR) are closely aligned subjects.
The main difference is that marketing focuses on selling or promoting a product or service, whereas PR is concerned with maintaining a positive reputation for a company, organisation or person as a whole.
Marketing is a wide ranging subject including areas such as digital marketing, brand, advertising, retail, marketing communications, research and analytics, supply chain and consumer behaviour.
PR includes public communications theories, strategic public relations planning, media relations, public diplomacy and strategic communication, digital media, public affairs and advocacy, and research methods.
Marketing and Public Relations courses at Stirling help you to prepare for a career in the rapidly-shifting professional landscape in an age of 24/7 connectivity.
Our range of courses include Marketing, Retail Marketing, Event Management and PR, with many offering work experience or consultancy project opportunities.
Graduates can head towards a specialist career in marketing, PR or events management, or can take a more general route to a management career in the public, private or voluntary sectors.
The skills gained from a marketing or PR course at Stirling give you a wide range of analytical, problem-solving and professional skills which are highly valued by employers.
Graduates from Stirling have gone into roles such as:
Our graduates have gone on to work for organisations such as Adidas, Tesco, Heineken, Scottish Media Group, Marks and Spencer, BBC, Nestle and Hewlett Packard.
The University of Stirling has joined up with The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) to give Marketing students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM Graduate Gateway.
The University of Stirling Business School is accredited by the Small Business Charter (SBC) for our work supporting small businesses, local economies and student enterprise.
The University of Stirling’s research in Marketing and Retail looks at consumptions patterns and consumer behaviour in an evolving social landscape.
The Consumers, Cultures and Society research group specialises in bringing the experiences of consumers (and those driving the market) to wider audiences through the evolving character and social structure of the 'consumer society'.
The Institute for Retail Studies is involved with local, national and global research, exploring topics such as how the retail brand has evolved, the processes involved in retail internationalisation and different retail spaces.
They carry out many research projects for public and private sector bodies.
Public relations research at the University of Stirling is carried out by the Communications, Media and Culture division.
They are committed to wide-ranging research which crosses boundaries between arts and humanities, social sciences and management.
Our Marketing and Retail PhD programme is accredited by the Economic and Social Research Council and is affiliated with the prestigious Business and Management Pathway of the Scottish Graduate School.
Our expertise in Public Relations has helped us build strong links with industry, giving PhD students the chance to both learn from and contribute to the latest thinking in the arena.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Marketing and Retail and our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Public Relations.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/mathematics:
Mathematics, simply put, is the study and science of quantity, shapes and arrangement.
Mathematicians find and understand patterns which can solve real-world problems or explain phenomena.
Maths fundamentals include:
At the University of Stirling, you will study real-world applications of both mathematical and statistical techniques.
Our Maths degrees are highly rated.
We're ranked top 3 in Scotland and top 20 in the UK for Mathematics (National Student Survey 2024).
Studying Maths helps you develop skills in logical thinking, problem-solving and decision-making.
Our graduates are industry-ready, with skills sought-after by employers across many job sectors.
A degree in Maths from Stirling gives you the theoretical background and the quantitative skills needed to work in many different fields.
There is a growing demand for graduates with mathematical skills in areas such as business, research and science.
Industries may include health, business, space science, government, pharmaceuticals, engineering, finance and information technology.
Jobs related to a Mathematics degree include:
Our Mathematics computing laboratories are an integral part of the learning process, making studying as much experimental as theoretical.
Our department of Computing Science and Mathematics produces internationally excellent research.
As a PhD student researching Mathematics at Stirling, you’ll benefit from the support and expertise of leading academics who encourage you to think outside the box and tackle real problems affecting industry and society.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/nursing:
Nursing is a challenging and rewarding profession that offers a wide range of roles in caring for people and promoting health.
Stirling is a superb place to study for your Nursing degree and learn skills that are valued worldwide.
We offer courses in Adult Nursing (caring for adults aged over 18) and Mental Health Nursing.
The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) approves all our Nursing courses, and we’re ranked top 5 in Scotland for Nursing (The Guardian University Guide 2025).
Our Nursing degrees are taught by world-leading academics with strong and established research records, expertise in nursing practice and a wealth of world-class publications.
You will leave us as a confident practitioner, fully equipped to register with the NMC and join a healthcare team upon graduation.
Students from our courses have repeatedly won Student Nursing Times Awards.
Study Nursing in Scotland and make a difference caring for people.
Health and Allied Subjects
Our Nursing courses are approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Our Nursing courses will prepare you for a modern profession, and provide the best possible patient care in a range of settings.
Some of our nursing graduates focus on practice - consolidating their learning by working in roles such as a staff nurse in a hospital, community setting or care home - while others progress to postgraduate studies.
These experiences can develop a career pathway, leading to specialised areas such as palliative care or advanced nurse practitioner roles.
Nursing graduates mostly find roles within the NHS, while others have found employment in other areas of the public sector-as well as with private healthcare providers and the voluntary sector.
We work with NHS Forth Valley to ensure that our Nursing courses remain clinically excellent and that you’ll receive the best possible practical training.
The Forth Valley University College NHS Partnership is an ambitious collaboration between the University of Stirling, Forth Valley College and NHS Forth Valley, which aims to improve patient care and treatment for communities across the region for years to come.
In the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport we have a research-intensive environment responsible for pioneering research in a number of important fields such as Nursing, public health, primary care and mental health.
Our research is world-leading and has been recognised internationally for making a positive and demonstrable impact on the health and wellbeing of individuals and society.
In REF 2021, 100% of our research environment, 80% of our research impact and 83% of our overall research in Allied Health Professions and Nursing was classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
Study for a Nursing or Health Sciences PhD or MPhil at the University of Stirling and you’ll join a friendly postgraduate health science community.
Our degrees include a Clinical Doctorate in Nursing or Midwifery which is the only one of its kind in Scotland.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in Health Sciences and Nursing.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/philosophy-and-religion:
Philosophy is concerned with studying general and specific questions about existence, knowledge, values, logic, mind and languages.
Studying Philosophy lets you try to make sense of the world around us, other people or ourselves by using rational arguments.
Religion spans history, influences cultures and plays a major role in shaping today’s political landscape.
Explore how the meaning of “Religion” differs around the world, and how it is practised in society.
Philosophy courses at Stirling give you breadth and variety by studying many different topics such as metaphysics, individual philosophers, moral philosophy, rationalism, and environmental ethics.
We're ranked Top 5 in Scotland for Philosophy (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Religion at the University of Stirling is studied as a combined degree with one of 10 other subjects including philosophy, professional education and history.
Studying Philosophy or Religion will help you to develop a strong set of critical, imaginative and informed reasoning skills.
If you have taken the Higher in Religious, Moral, and Philosophical Studies, then a good way to pursue an interest in religion, morality and philosophy further would be to take Philosophy and Religion as a combined degree.
At University level, ethics and morality are standardly taught as part of philosophy.
A degree in Religion or Philosophy opens up a broad range of career opportunities.
The key transferable skills gained will make you a valuable asset to employers in whatever career path you choose.
You’ll graduate with a greater knowledge of cultural differences and alternate perspectives, greatly enhancing your ability to manage or work with others.
Stirling graduates with a Philosophy or Religion degree have gone on to a diverse range of careers in areas such as:
Our MLitt Philosophy course is part of the St Andrews and Stirling Philosophy (SASP) Graduate Programme which is Scotland's leading centre for graduate study in Philosophy.
Philosophy research at the University of Stirling falls broadly within the analytic tradition, and is organised around three clusters:
Our Religion research uses a distinctive “Critical Religion” methodology to interrogate the historical construction and limitations of the term religion, and to ask positive but searching questions about the place of religious discourse – and discourse on religion – in contemporary societies.
There are three main themes:
We offer a range of postgraduate research opportunities in Philosophy through our collaboration with the University of St Andrews.
The St Andrews and Stirling Graduate programme in Philosophy (SASP) is regarded as one of the top Philosophy programmes in the United Kingdom.
Our postgraduate researchers in Religion work with a range of scholars at the cutting edge of critical engagement, with key themes in religion, politics, gender, philosophy, economics and more.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/politics:
Politics enters every aspect of our lives.
It can shape our opinions, inform our decisions and help us to understand people's motivations.
Politics is concerned with the theories, ideologies, political systems and policies of civil society locally, nationally and globally.
It explores issues of power, alliances, conflict and peace on a global scale.
Politics can let you make a meaningful contribution to society.
Politics courses at Stirling allow you to follow your passion for politics while gaining key knowledge and practical skills needed to help you in your chosen career.
You’ll be taught by experts who have an interdisciplinary focus that engages with the work of others, particularly in the fields of global security and the policy of civil society.
Studying a Politics course at the University of Stirling helps you develop theoretical, communication and analytical skills that are highly valued by employers.
From social and political research to journalism, marketing and HR, our Politics courses open up a wide range of career options to you.
Potential employers include global organisations such as the UN, the third-sector, the civil service, local and national government, lobbying organisations and commercial businesses.
Jobs that are directly related to a Politics degree include:
Politics research at Stirling looks at the impact of and interplay between internal pressures upon liberal democracies, such as devolution or the accommodation of minorities.
Our research also explores external challenges associated with the development of the European Union and the relationship with neighbouring countries outside of the EU.
Study for a PhD or MPhil in Politics at the University of Stirling and you’ll be part of a dynamic culture where collaboration is key.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in the areas of History and Politics.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/psychology:
Psychology is the scientific study of mind and behaviour.
It plays an important role in the world helping to understand complex questions around human behaviour.
Our psychology research at Stirling addresses big questions around fundamental psychological themes:
Psychology courses at the University of Stirling will allow you to gain an in-depth knowledge of human (and animal) behaviour while developing research and analytical skills that employers highly value.
We cover a diverse range of topics including cognition, developmental psychology, social behaviour, health psychology, animal behaviour and clinical psychology.
Many of our psychology courses include practical placements.
Many of our undergraduate and postgraduate Psychology courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society.
The wide range of skills and knowledge gained from a Psychology degree can open up many different career paths to you.
Jobs that are directly related include:
There are also many areas that value Psychology skills including human resources, marketing, emergency services, careers advice and teaching.
We have a number of high-end specialist psychology labs for students and researchers that involve:
We also have a pre-school kindergarten where students will have the opportunity to study aspects of child development.
Our Psychology Single Honours, and all Psychology Combined Honours degree courses, are accredited with the British Psychological Society (BPS).
They confer eligibility for Graduate Basis for Registration, provided the minimum standard of a Second Class Honours is achieved.
This is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Our MSc Health Psychology meets the British Psychological Society’s requirements for Stage 1 training in Health Psychology.
The MSc Psychology of Sport is accredited by the British Psychological Society.
It satisfies Stage 1 training and enables progression onto Stage 2 on route to becoming a sport and exercise psychologist.
Psychology research at Stirling is of a very high standard.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021, we ranked 2nd in Scotland for research impact in Psychology.
100% of our research impact and environment, and 87% of our overall research in Psychology is classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
Our academic staff have a diverse range of research interests from animal behaviour to social psychology.
We have a collegiate working environment that provides excellent support and mentoring to early career researchers, making Stirling the perfect place to study for a PhD or MPhil in Psychology.
See our MPhil, PhD and Doctorate opportunities in the areas of Psychology including Health Psychology.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/social-studies:
Social Studies is concerned with understanding society.
It looks at how contemporary society across the globe functions and the major challenges facing it.
Social Studies also includes the processes and outcomes of the welfare of society.
Studying subjects within Social Studies such as Social Work, Social Policy, Sociology, Housing Studies, Social Research and Substance Use, give you an opportunity to have a significant and positive impact on people’s lives.
Our Social Studies courses are designed to equip our students with the practical and transferable knowledge necessary to meet the complex demands of professional practice.
We are top 5 in Scotland and top 20 in the UK for Social Policy, and top 5 in Scotland for Sociology (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Social studies graduates work in the private, public and voluntary sectors.
Successful completion of our BA (Hons) Social Work degree or the MSc Social Work Studies allows you to register as a qualified social worker across the UK.
Common areas that social studies graduates enter include:
Our Social Work degrees are run in partnership with statutory and non-statutory agencies across Scotland.
Many of our courses are recognised within the industry:
Underlining the expertise of our staff, we scored highly in the recent Research Excellence Framework 2021 – a UK-wide assessment of universities’ research output.
Our academic researchers in Social Studies engage with communications around the globe and their research makes a positive difference to society.
Theoretical and applied research is carried out in many different areas including:
Find out more about research in the Faculty of Social Sciences .
Join our dynamic and research-led Faculty of Social Sciences to address key challenges in society.
See our Social Studies PhD and Doctorate opportunities in the areas of:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/sport:
Sport is in our DNA - Stirling has been Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence since 2008.
Our mission is to deliver the best for Scottish sport through the powerful and inspirational combination of sport and education.
We’ve developed an international reputation for delivering Sports degrees that get results.
You can choose to study a Sport degree focused on sports science, performance, business management or psychology.
Our Sport courses are integrated with the University's world-class sports facilities to provide a unique and rewarding studying and sporting environment.
We prepare athletes for world-stage success and improve the nation's health through physical exercise.
Our Sport courses bring together leading academics to deliver high-quality teaching in a range of areas with a primary focus on your future employability.
You’ll graduate from our Sport degrees with a breadth of knowledge and practical experiences that can be applied to a wide range of sport-related careers, from developing national sport and coaching, to management and governance.
Our graduates have gone on to work in jobs such as:
The University of Stirling is ranked among the top 5 universities in the UK for Sports Science in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025, and we are also highly rated by fcbusiness.
Our excellent performance analysis laboratories and world-class sport facilities are used by our Olympian athletes and sport novices alike
Our five-star sports facilities include The National Tennis Centre, an Olympic-sized swimming pool, pitches and a host of other facilities.
We’re consistently ranked among the best universities in the UK for our sports facilities.
Our campus is also home to the National Tennis Centre, National Swimming Academy, and headquarters of Scottish sport governing bodies and regional offices, including the sportscotland Institute of Sport.
We work closely with the industry to ensure everything we teach you is relevant and will boost your employability within the sector.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021, 80% of our research in Sport and Exercise Sciences was classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
We are 1st in Scotland for research outputs in Sport and Exercise Sciences.
Our research themes include:
Postgraduate research studies in Sport at the University of Stirling can be undertaken in diverse contexts from high-performance sport to population health.
Staff specialisms include genetics and molecular biology, nutrition and hydration, neuro-muscular function and physical activity.
See our PhD and MPhil opportunities in the areas of Sport .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/subjects/teaching-and-education:
Our Teaching and Education courses focus on processes, knowledge and skills for helping people learn.
This is an area where you can truly make a difference in people’s lives through teaching or educational research.
Teaching and Education degrees at the University of Stirling are highly rated.
We're ranked top 15 in the UK for Education (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Our wide range of expertise includes:
We also offer accredited professional qualifications for those looking to progress their career.
Our Teaching and Education students have the skills and knowledge to work in a varied range of jobs when they graduate.
Many of our degrees will lead you directly into your chosen role in early years, primary or secondary school teaching, further education or TESOL.
Our Primary and Secondary Education degrees are accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS).
On successful completion, you can apply for provisional registration as a teacher.
Our Masters degrees will help those already working in education and teaching to progress into leadership and management roles.
Our MSc Education Leadership course is also accredited by GTCS.
Graduates with Teaching and Education degrees are also highly sought-after in other areas, such as:
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021, 100% of our research impact and environment in Education was classed as world-leading or internationally excellent, placing us in the top 20 in the UK for research impact and research environment.
Our Doctor in Education is an ideal development opportunity if you’re a senior education professional seeking to enhance and utilise your research expertise.
You can also undertake a PhD where you’ll benefit from all our expertise and conduct your research in a supportive, vibrant environment that helps to develop your research skills and provide a collaborative research environment.
See our PhD and Doctorate opportunities in Education.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/why-stirling-for-undergraduate-study:
Our flexible degree structure is just one reason why Stirling is a great place for you to study your undergraduate course.
We offer you much more than just a qualification.
Join Stirling and you’ll discover a welcoming and thriving global student community on a stunning 330-acre campus.
Where innovation meets breathtaking nature.
Our beautiful 330-acre campus has iconic new sports facilities as well as fantastic social, learning and study spaces.
On-site facilities also include a theatre, cinema, cafés, pharmacy, supermarket, the Students' Union and stunning green spaces.
Are you still trying figure out your options?
We're here to help!
For most undergraduate degrees, our flexible structure gives you the chance to try out all sorts of new subjects, combine the ones that interest you or even change your mind about what you’d like to graduate in.
We offer you an education based on innovation and excellence in teaching and research.
With five stars in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024, you can expect a quality study experience at Stirling.
Our range of secure and affordable accommodation includes over 2,000 rooms with a space to suit everyone.
Our students gain more than a degree.
From internships to help finding a job, the Careers Service gives you the support and advice you need to plan your career and develop your employability.
Want to travel the world?
Expand your horizons by studying in another country for a year or a semester.
We're a truly international institution offering a wide range of study abroad opportunities.
Ist in the UK and Top 3 in the world for campus environment
96% of our graduates were in employment or further study 15 months after graduation
* Rankings are based on institutions included in the Guardian University Guide 2022.
Famous for being the scene of much of Scotland’s history, Stirling also has great shops, bars, restaurants, and culture.
Living here let's you combine cosmopolitan city life with the tranquillity of rolling hills and the Scottish countryside.
No matter what you’re into, our 120+ societies and sports teams are bound to offer something that piques your interest – from athletics to anime, volleyball to video games.
With over 120 nationalities represented on campus, you can meet new people and experience diverse cultures at Stirling.
Thinking and working globally is part of our daily teaching, learning and research practice, meaning your degree will be outward-looking, full of possibilities and potential.
University is about finding your own way, but that doesn’t mean you have to go it alone.
The Student Services Hub brings lots of services together to help you resolve a whole range of queries through a single point of contact.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/why-stirling-for-postgraduate-study:
The University of Stirling is an international university with pioneering spirit and a global reputation for high-quality teaching and research.
We’re passionate about creating impact in everything we do – addressing real societal issues, providing solutions, and helping to shape communities.
for Teaching, Employability, Global Engagement, Research, Facilities, Environmental Impact
We’re proud of our commitment to ensuring you leave Stirling with life-long career management and employability skills.
Find out how we can help you stand out from the crowd.
Our world-leading academics are experts in their fields, whose work is centred on making an impact on society.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), more than 80% of Stirling research was classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
Students rate Stirling 1st in the UK for its “good campus environment”.
We offer a wide range of modern, comfortable and secure postgraduate residences on and off campus.
With our beautiful campus as your base, choosing Stirling means immersing yourself in the unique sights and sounds of one of the world’s most vibrant and inspiring countries.
Student support
We strive to ensure all our students are able to embrace life as a part of our vibrant postgraduate community – which is why our extensive student support services are always on standby to lend a helping hand.
If you have any questions about postgraduate study please contact us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/online-learning:
With the University of Stirling's online courses, you can study at your own pace anywhere in the world.
Boost or change your career by studying an online short course or online Masters degree.
Online postgraduate degrees
Study one of our online Masters degrees and gain a qualification that will take your career to the next level.
Online short courses
Expand your knowledge with our short courses designed to fit around your busy lifestyle.
Guidance and support from top experts in your chosen field
Fit your studies around your lifestyle
Access the University of Stirling's online resources
Join a global online community of students and academics
Our online courses are taught by renowned experts in their field.
At the University of Stirling, you will be taught by thought leaders informed by the latest cutting-edge research.
Our online university courses are flexible, and you can study anywhere in the world at a time that suits you.
With our online degrees and online short courses, you can fit your learning around a busy lifestyle and continue working while you study.
You will learn through online lectures, seminars, and guided independent study delivered via the University’s virtual learning platform.
When you enrol on your online course, you will receive a digital student card that will grant you access to the facilities available to all University students, such as the library and student support services.
Online postgraduate degree students can even attend a graduation ceremony when they complete their course.
By studying an online course at the University of Stirling, you will be part of a global community of fellow students and academics.
There are many opportunities to meet and network with peers in live sessions, online forums and social media groups.
The University of Stirling has decades of experience providing distance and online learning courses.
Find out more about what it's like to study an online course with us.
You will access your online course materials through a virtual learning environment (VLE).
Depending on your course, you may have online lectures, seminars and guided independent reading.
You can connect with your classmates or contact your course tutors with any questions as you study.
Costs vary depending on the course you would like to study.
Our individual online postgraduate degree and online short course pages will clearly state the charge for each course.
There is a wide range of postgraduate loans and scholarships to help you fund your studies.
University of Stirling online courses are incredibly flexible.
You can study the learning material anywhere in the world, at a time that suits you.
Most of our online courses have live sessions.
You should attend these to make the most of your course, but most sessions will be recorded so you can catch up if you need to.
Our courses are structured around self-paced study with occasional assessment and assignment deadlines to ensure you keep making progress.
The length of study depends on each individual course.
You will find the duration of your course clearly stated on your chosen course page.
Online short courses generally last around 10-12 weeks, while a full postgraduate online course could take 1-2 years or longer.
Part-time online courses typically require 10-20 hours per week, while full-time courses require a full-time commitment of around 40 hours per week.
When you enrol for your online course, you will receive a digital student card which will grant you access to all the facilities available to all University of Stirling students, including:
You will join a global network of like-minded students and academics when you start your online course.
Students can meet in our live sessions and online forums and connect on social media.
Online postgraduate students are welcome to attend an on-campus graduation ceremony when they complete their course.
97% satisfaction with the virtual learning environment
(The International Student Barometer, Wave 2, 2024)
94% satisfaction with online study materials

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding:
Find out how much it will cost to study at the University of Stirling and see what scholarships and funding opportunities we have available.
We have trained advisers that can give you tips on how to manage your money.
Every year we offer substantial scholarship and funding options to help you achieve your potential.
If you have the ambition and drive to study at the University of Stirling, search our wide range of scholarships that could help finance your course.
Money support
Managing your money is an important part of university life.
From assistance funding to budgeting guides and cost of living information, find out how our money support can help you.
We provide a range of secure payment options.
Your tuition fee can either be paid in full prior to, or upon enrolment or spread over manageable monthly instalments.
Tuition fees are payable for part-time study whether you’re living in Scotland, the rest of the UK, the EU or international.
Find out our undergraduate and postgraduate tuition fees for international students.
There are some instances where additional fees for undergraduate or postgraduate may be applied.
Find out more about tuition fees and funding opportunities for nursing and paramedic science students.
Our University policy provides guidance on when refunds of tuition fees will be made by the University and how they will be calculated.
If you have any queries please get in touch with our Student Support Services.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/cpd-and-short-courses:
Skill-up your workforce or develop your personal interests with the latest thinking in your sector.
We also offer a variety of short courses, modules and programmes for your continuing professional development (CPD).
Our flexible study options allow you to fit in a course around your other commitments.
From part-time study, to distance or blended learning, the choice is yours.
Distance learning means you can access our CPD courses even if you’re outside the UK.
Our virtual learning environment allows you to benefit from world-class teaching, wherever you are.
Taking a CPD course can help you change and progress your career, return to work, update your skills and open up career opportunities.
We’re able to offer accredited programmes that give exemption from some professional examinations, putting our world-class expertise into practice to help you further your career.
Our flexible and modular degree structure means that a number of our modules can be taken to build up to a Postgraduate Certificate or Diploma level qualification, giving you the flexibility to learn at your pace.
We can also provide tailored CPD courses to suit your requirements.
The University of Stirling is committed to providing training to improve the healthcare delivered in the local and global community.
Our CPD training courses deliver the latest, up-to-date knowledge from healthcare experts.
Expand your knowledge and skills as a nurse with our relevant CPD courses.
Our partnership NHS Forth Valley ensures our courses remain clinically excellent and that you’ll receive outstanding practical training.
Our CPD in coaching and coach development is designed to improve your professional practice for the benefit of athletes, coaches, clubs and sports organisations.
Boost your employability and further your career with a short course from University of Stirling Business School.
Our courses will equip you with relevant skills for today's workplace.
Learn in-demand technical skills in machine learning and their workplace applications.
The Faculty of Social Sciences delivers short courses for professionals working in the areas of dementia and disaster intervention.
We deliver training and continuing professional development courses in key areas relevant to aquaculture business and regulatory services.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/where-can-a-university-of-stirling-degree-take-you:
"Be the One" shines a spotlight on the inspiring careers, achievements, and stories of our diverse alumni community—proving that a Stirling degree is just the beginning of something wonderful.
Aditya, a Sport Management Masters graduate, chose Stirling for its reputation as Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence.
He also benefitted from the UK Post-Study Work visa.
It allows international students to stay in the UK for two years after graduation.
With the University's support, Adi landed an internship at Stirling’s local football club.
This hands-on experience helped him secure his dream job as a Football Development Coach at Arsenal FC.
MBA graduate Gill Baird explains how studying at Stirling gave her the professional development skills to be a successful business owner and build her own hospital.
Robert Muirhead is loving his role as a Staff Nurse in the Surgical Assessment Unit at Forth Valley Royal Hospital.
He talks about how studying the BSc Adult Nursing at Stirling helped him to become a nurse after leaving the Navy.
Hear from our Film, Media and Sociology graduate, Nicky, on how studying her course at Stirling helped her to achieve her career goals.
Studying our BA (Hons) Journalism Studies helped Donald Matheson achieve his career ambition and become a Television Producer.
He works with broadcasters such as the BBC and streamers like Netflix and Amazon.
Stirling gave Donald valuable work experience, including working on set and with mentors.
Lucy Fraser Edmans graduated with an MSc Big Data .
Studying at Stirling helped her change her career trajectory and become a Data Science Lead for Forth Point A Blend360 Company.
James is a Senior Marketing Manager for the Women's Rugby World Cup 2025.
He's a BA (Hons) Marketing graduate and has combined his passion for equality, inclusion and diversity in sports with his international marketing career.
Niru Dorrian, our BSc (Hons) Marine Biology graduate talks about how studying at Stirling helped him secure his role as a Senior Offshore Ecologist and Marine Mammal Specialist for ESB (Electricity Supply Board), Ireland.
Kat talks about her career journey from working on the conservation of birds and tortoise species in the Seychelles to radioactive water management solutions at Nuclear Waste Services.
Hear from James, a proud Stirling graduate and CEO of Katoni Engineering Ltd.
He tells us how studying economics helped him think about what kind of leader he could be.
From internships to helping find a job, the Careers Service gives you the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
See more about our Careers Service .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/important-information-for-applicants:
We recognise that choosing where and what you would like to study is a big decision.
The information on these pages aims to provide you with details of important aspects of studying at the University of Stirling.
Please follow the links below to access the information provided under each heading.
Just get in touch with us if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/international-partnership-courses:
The University of Stirling has forged strong partnerships both at home and further afield.
We've teamed up with a range of international institutions to offer a selection of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees which are taught, in part or entirely, overseas.
It's what makes us a truly global university.
The University of Stirling’s Doctor of Management (DMan) programme, jointly delivered with the University of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (UCASS) is one of the first Sino-UK DMan programmes to have been approved by the Chinese Ministry of Education.
The DMan immerses our students in cutting-edge interdisciplinary research – equipping them with the practical and theoretical skills they need to find innovative solutions to the challenges of international business.
The joint delivery of the DMan course offers students the chance to take advantage of a unique partnership, benefit from the best of both institutions’ expertise and to develop and become future intellectual thought-leaders and part of a new breed of Chartered Managers.
Hebei Normal University is a key provincial institution that caters to a student population of more than 57,000.
The University of Stirling offers a dynamic double award that is jointly delivered both on our campus in Stirling, as well as in Hebei.
Find out more and apply at hebtu.edu.cn .
Kwansei Gakuin University (KGU) and the University of Stirling have a longstanding partnership spanning 25 years.
KGU is one of the most prestigious private institutions in Japan, and is a selected member of the Japanese Government’s Top Global University Project.
The University of Stirling offers a unique double award that is jointly delivered both on campus in Stirling and in Osaka.
Find out more and apply at global.kwansei.ac.jp .
Singapore Institute of Management (SIM) is one of the country’s premier higher education institutions.
Having earned the backing of the Singaporean Government’s Workforce Development Agency, the University of Stirling has partnered with SIM since 2011 to develop a range of business courses designed to offer students a truly global academic experience.
Courses include:
Find out more and apply at simge.edu.sg .
The University of Stirling launched an educational partnership approved by the Chinese Ministry of Education in 2021 with Chengdu University in Chengdu, Sichuan province, China.
The partnership is named Chengdu University – Stirling College (CDUSC).
Students will be able to study the following degrees:
Graduates receive two degrees – one from Stirling and one from Chengdu – at the end of four years of study, providing they fulfil the academic requirements for each institution.
The students will also have the option to pursue study at Stirling both as part of their undergraduate programme or for a postgraduate programme.
For more information please email enquiries@stir.cdu.edu.cn or call 028-84616790.
The University of Stirling is offering a number of undergraduate and postgraduate courses, delivered from our campus in Ras Al Khaimah (UAE).
The courses will be delivered in English for UAE and international students.
Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) is one of the fastest-rising, dynamic young universities in Spain, with impressive international rankings.
The University of Stirling has partnered with UPF to develop an innovative joint award delivered both on campus in Stirling and in Barcelona.
The University of Stirling Business School has partnered with Porto Business School , a top-ranked European university, to offer students the chance to study at both institutions and graduate with two degrees.
Students who complete the Executive Masters in International Business at Porto can transfer to the University of Stirling with 60 credits towards an MSc Business and Management or an MSc International Business, and vice versa.
If based in Stirling, it will also be possible to study for the two degrees simultaneously.
This allows students to complete the two degrees in a semester less than usual, and to experience different styles of business teaching, as well as life in Scotland and in Portugal.
The University of Stirling Business School has partnered with the prestigious Budapest Business School (BBS) to offer students the chance to study in Scotland and Hungary and graduate with two degrees.
From January 2023, students who complete all the necessary requirements at one institution can then transfer to the other, and graduate with an MSc International Business from Stirling and an MSc International Economy and Business from BBS.
This allows students to complete the two degrees in less time and experience different styles of business teaching, widening their academic focus, as well as life in Stirling and in Budapest, pandemic permitting.
We've teamed up with global education leader, INTO, to deliver dynamic programmes to support your needs.
University of Stirling International Study Centre's integrated academic programmes offer progression to a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at the University of Stirling.
Find out more on the University of Stirling International Study Centre website .
If you'd like to learn more about our international partnerships, contact our International team.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/virtualtour:
Pause animations
Scroll the map to see more locations
Click any of the video location markers for videos and more information!
Share the virtual tour

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/download-a-prospectus:
Download a prospectus for an introduction to studying at the University of Stirling.
Our prospectuses give you an overview of life and study at Stirling.
Discover the wide variety of courses we have on offer and find out about our campus facilities, as well as the support you'll receive while studying.
A degree from the University of Stirling can help you achieve your potential and pursue your career.
We want to make sure you have all the information you need before you arrive at Stirling.
That's why you can go to our ' Ask a question ' page to make an enquiry or order a prospectus.
We can post you a printed copy of our prospectus if you live in the UK.
Find out more about undergraduate study
Learn more about our undergraduate entry requirements, how to apply, fees and funding, and much more in our online resources.
Learn more about postgraduate study
Find out about our postgraduate entry requirements, scholarships and funding for postgraduate study, and more information in our online resources.
We provide a welcoming and supportive environment to meet the needs of our researchers.
Come and join our research community.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/semester-dates:
Key teaching and exam dates at the University of Stirling.
Monday 12 May – Monday 19 May 2025 (inclusive)
Wednesday 16 April - Friday 9 May 2025 (inclusive)*
*No exams will be scheduled on Good Friday (Friday 18 April 2025) or Easter Monday (Monday 21 April 2025).
Monday 16 June – Monday 23 June 2025 (inclusive)
Monday 14 April - Tuesday 22 April 2025 (inclusive)*
Tuesday 19 August - Tuesday 26 August (inclusive)
Semester starts
Mon 15 Sept 2025
Mid-semester reading week
Mon 27 Oct – Fri 31 Oct 2025 (inclusive)
Teaching ends
Fri 5 Dec 2025
Autumn examination period
Tue 9 Dec – Fri 19 Dec 2025 (inclusive)
Autumn resit/deferred examination period
Mon 11 May – Mon 18 May 2026 (inclusive)
Teaching Starts
Mon 19 Jan 2026
Mid-Semester reading week
Mon 2 Mar – Fri 6 Mar 2026 (inclusive)
Tue 14 Apr 2026
Spring Examination Period
Mon 20 Apr – Fri 8 May 2026 (inclusive)
Spring resit/deferred examination period
Mon 15 Jun – Mon 22 Jun 2026 (inclusive)
Mon 22 Sept 2025
Autumn Examination period
Tue 6 – Tue 13 Jan 2026 (inclusive)
Mon 11 May - Mon 18 May 2026
Teaching starts
Mid semester reading week
Tue 7 Apr 2026
Spring examination period
Tue 14 Apr – Thu 23 Apr 2026 (inclusive)
Mon 15 June - Mon 22 June 2026
* Good Friday and Easter Monday fall on Friday 3 April 2026 and Monday 6 April 2026 respectively.
No teaching will be scheduled on these dates.
Mon 27 Apr 2026
Fri 24 Jul 2026
Summer examination period
Mon 6 Jul – Mon 13 Jul 2026 (inclusive)
Summer resit/deferred examination period
Tue 18 Aug – Tue 25 Aug 2026 (inclusive)

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students:
We're an international university based in Scotland the UK.
Scotland is renowned for its innovative, modern and cutting-edge research and teaching.
More than 30% of our students are from overseas – discover why so many international students choose to study at Stirling.
Your country / region
Discover information specific to where you're from including entry requirements, English language requirements, scholarships, useful contacts and more.
International entry requirements
Get details of the international qualifications we accept for undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/part-time-application:
Due to the flexible and modular nature of our degrees we offer a part-time study option for some undergraduate courses.
Choose a flexible part-time course to fit around your other commitments and study at a pace to suit your lifestyle.
Most part-time students can achieve their degree in five years, however you can take longer if you wish.
If the idea of starting a degree feels a little daunting to begin with, you can start by studying one or two modules.
You can apply for part-time study starting in January or September by applying direct to us.
Once you have decided on the course you wish to apply for, please email admissions@stir.ac.uk advising which course you would like to apply for and we will respond to you with the application link and further details on the process.
We are unable to accept applications for part-time study from students who need a visa to study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/flexible-learning:
Study at a pace that best suits your lifestyle.
We offer a range of postgraduate courses on a part-time basis, which enables you to study at a pace that best suits your lifestyle.
Check our course pages to see all available postgraduate part-time courses .
If you’d like to earn a Masters degree but making it onto campus isn’t an option, we also offer a number of online distance learning courses.
These are available to students from all over the globe.
See our Online Masters degree courses .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
If you’re looking for the perfect place to call home during your studies, we’ve got you covered.
Our range of secure and affordable accommodation includes over 2,800 rooms right on our beautiful campus, as well as easy-to-reach off-campus residences.
Explore our accommodation below and tailor your search to find exactly what you’re looking for.
Be close to your classes and our fantastic facilities such as cafes, cinema, library, Students' Union, Sports Centre, supermarket and health centre.
Heating, electricity, contents insurance, WiFi, and housekeeping assistance are all included in your rent
We look out for our students by providing a 24/7 security team and emergency support as well as a range of support services.
We have over 2,800 rooms for you to choose from.
Our residences are designed to cater to various needs and preferences, offering a range of room types and facilities so it's useful to make a list of your preferences before applying.
See our advice on how to choose the right accommodation for you.
Take a closer look at University of Stirling accommodation by viewing our virtual tour.
It gives you 360° views of our student residences both on and off campus.
You can choose to pay your rent in full or in separate instalments.
See the different payment methods we accept.
Important information for those who decide to stay in private rental accommodation, rather than University-maintained accommodation.
We have six houses on campus specifically for staff and their families, all of which are fully furnished and located in the scenic Airthrey Castle Yard.
If you have any questions about University of Stirling accommodation, please get in touch.
You can also live chat with us via your portal: Monday to Friday 10:00-12:00 and 14:00-16:00.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers:
From internships to helping find a job, the Careers Service gives you the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
Not everyone finds it easy to plan for their future career.
If you’re not sure what to do, we can help.
Learn more about how you can develop your key skills and experiences to improve your employability.
Find a job
We have all kinds of graduate, summer and part-time jobs.
Sign-up to TARGETconnect and start searching now.
Career events
Find out more about all our events, graduate fairs, briefings and skills sessions.
Enhance your prospects with our postgraduate degrees.
Stirling postgraduate students not only achieve a qualification, but leave campus equipped with life-changing skills.
Our students are innovative, trained and confident.
Learn more about how recruiting our students can help your business.
Study at Stirling and the world is open for you to explore.
We have 70 partner universities across four continents.
You can contact us via TARGETconnect .
Live chat
Current students and applicants can chat live with staff from the Student Services Hub, Admissions or Information Services via the portal from 09:00 - 16:30 (BST) Monday to Friday.
On Tuesdays it is from 10:00 - 16:30.
Follow us for the latest information about what's going on in the Careers Service.
96% of our graduates

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/global-position:
Our global reputation for excellence in teaching and research, allows us to deliver degrees that are recognised across the world by employers.
A truly international institution, we have a dynamic community of staff and students from more than 140 countries.
of our students are international
taught through international partnerships in 2023/24
of our research has an outstanding or very considerable impact on society
alumni in 180 countries
student satisfaction with lecture theatres and classrooms
for Internationalisation
represented on campus

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/global-ambition:
Global connectivity has never been more important to the University’s ambitions.
To truly make a difference in the world, we need to attract the brightest minds, the most talented students, and provide access to top facilities.
These connections help us grow as a learning community and create an environment where interdisciplinary and mission-oriented research thrives.
By working together across borders, we can tackle the world’s pressing challenges facing the human and natural world and expose and interrogate prejudices and injustices wherever they are found.
Our Global Engagement Strategy 2024-2030 aligns the University’s vision with a global focus on people, place, and purpose.
Rooted in Ambition, Integrity, and Respect, our Global Strategy ensures responsible global engagement guided by academic values and ethics while respecting local contexts.
We’ll enhance our global reputation by boosting visibility, forming strategic partnerships, and embracing a values-led approach.
We’re making international collaboration the norm, strengthening our employer brand, and embedding our community into global networks.
Strong governance will keep our international activities secure and sustainable.
More than 110,000 alumni across 180 countries .
Our objectives for developing a single global learning community are grouped under three ‘internationalisation-at-home’ headings.
We're committed to fostering a welcoming and inclusive culture, ensuring strong support for diversity across race, faith, nationality, and ethnicity.
We want to help international staff and students build lasting connections with our institution.
Our aim is to ensure that, as far as possible, student cohorts are diverse and the University retains its attractiveness as a place of employment for international academic and professional service staff.
We'll equip staff with the skills and support to engage diverse, multinational student cohorts.
We're embedding sustainability, inclusivity, and intercultural perspectives into our teaching.
Our aim is to ensure our curricula reflects our core values, support international students' academic and career goals, and celebrates diverse backgrounds and perspectives.
Through external partnerships, we'll integrate work-based learning and transferable employability skills into both curricula and co-curricular activities.
We’re developing capacity to have a ‘one-stop-shop’ providing timely, tailored assistance for international staff and students.
By helping students build academic, linguistic, and professional skills, we'll ensure they thrive in our learning environment and future careers.
At the same time, we’re expanding global engagement opportunities for academics, professional staff, and students at all levels.
University of Stirling students celebrating graduation at our partner institution, Singapore Institute of Management.
This pillar is focused on building financial sustainability in our overseas income and recruitment streams.
Here's how we'll do that:
Staff and students performing Tai Chi at Chengdu University Stirling College.
Where are we now?
Global connections

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/our-partnerships:
As a global institution, the University of Stirling has established a diverse portfolio of innovative and productive partnerships with organisations across the world.
These partnerships are fundamental in helping the University meet its strategic objectives through enhancing our international links with institutions that share our core principles and values.
We’re committed to building strategic international partnerships, to promote research and teaching excellence with a global impact.
We support the development and management of a range of collaborative teaching, education and recruitment partnerships covering: joint and double degrees, split-site degrees, transnational (in-country) education programmes, and articulated and international access provision.
Our partner, the Sao Paulo State University (UNESP) in Brazil, offers our MSc and PhD TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) students the opportunity to gain valuable teaching experience overseas.
Students can teach English language classes in one of UNESP’s 24 campuses in the state of Sao Paulo.
The classes are offered to UNESP’s undergraduate students who are preparing to take the IELTS exam.
This international placement gives students practical teaching experience in a diverse cultural setting, boosts their employability skills, and enhances their global outlook and intercultural competence.
As an international University, we’re proud of our deep partnerships with a number of outstanding global education partners.
Through our teaching partnerships we support ambitious students, equipping them with the skills to thrive in our fast-moving world and transform it for the better.
We ensure that shared academic values are maintained and student experience is consistent across our global network.
Our teaching partnerships cover:
We participate in the sector-wide QE-TNE Scheme for the quality enhancement of UK transnational education.
The scheme is a demonstration of our commitment to a high-quality UK-TNE experience.
Singapore Institute Of Management (SIM), Singapore
Kwansei Gakuin University, Japan
Ras Al Khaimah, UAE
We’re investing in developing new international collaborative partnerships, helping to solve global issues and making a difference in higher education across the world.
We have long-standing international collaborations covering teaching, research, and student and staff mobility.
We aim to continue to grow and develop high quality, sustainable partnerships.
If you’re interested in exploring partnership or teaching collaboration opportunities please contact our team for further information at: internationalpartnerships@stir.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school:
Our dynamic International Summer School gives you a rewarding, once-in-a-lifetime experience, through our well-rounded education, social and cultural programme.
Experience a taste of the University of Stirling student life alongside other undergraduate international students, whilst gaining credits towards your course at your home institution.
We know you'll leave with more confidence, fantastic friends and an experience you’ll never forget.
Block 1: Saturday 7 June - Saturday 5 July 2025
Block 2: Saturday 5 July - Saturday 2 August 2025
Block 1 and 2: Saturday 7 June - Saturday 2 August 2025
Our course modules incorporate a distinctive Scottish flavour, and also allow for critical thinking of international themes.
Our programme includes academic tuition, excursions, on-campus accommodation, fun day trips and social activities.
Our fees depend on how long you want to study with us, and how many credits you want to take.
Our programmes are about so much more than studying.
We provide support, evening social events, and day trips, ensuring you'll have an unforgettable summer.
If you want more information or have any questions about our International Summer School please just get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/study-abroad-exchange:
Going abroad
We offer a wide range of once-in-a-lifetime Study Abroad opportunities.
You can study at one of our 70 partner universities, across four continents.
From a semester in Tokyo, to a year in Spain or California, you’ll be able to experience new cultures, develop your personal skills, and broaden your horizons.
Coming to Stirling
If you’re studying an undergraduate degree elsewhere in the world, you can join the University of Stirling for a year or a semester as part of your studies.
You’ll find a vibrant international community on our campus and plenty of opportunities to meet new people.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-english-language-school:
Programme Dates
Eligibility
Programme Fee
We’re delighted to welcome students from around the world to our International English Language School.
Our experienced TEFL-qualified teachers are here to support you and give you the confidence you need to learn and improve your English.
We'll develop and improve your fluency in English, across writing, reading, listening and speaking.
Stirling offers you the ideal place to explore Scotland's rich scenery, architecture and culture.
Located in central Scotland, we have excellent public transport links and the cities of Glasgow and Edinburgh are both less than an hour away.
Stirling is also only 30 minutes away from one of Scotland’s finest National Parks, Loch Lomond and The Trossachs.
Our 330-acre estate is home to one of the most scenic campuses in the UK.
With our own loch and 18th-century castle, you can enjoy a picturesque environment on campus.
We’re 1st in the UK and top 10 in the world for our campus environment (The International Student Barometer (ISB) 2024) and we'll welcome you to join our caring, welcoming community.
Also, our student accommodation is just a short walk or bus ride away from the lecture theatres, library and all the academic facilities you would expect.
We’ll give you practice in all four key language skills: listening and speaking (with integrated pronunciation), plus reading and writing (with integrated grammar).
Placement test: At the start of our course, students will take a placement test and are assigned to an appropriate level.
Materials: A leading textbook at the relevant level constitutes the syllabus for each class.
Your course book and all materials are provided.
Tutors: All tutors are fully qualified and experienced TEFL professionals.
Certification: At the end of a course, and subject to adequate attendance, you'll receive a University of Stirling English Language Certificate indicating the language level you've attained.
Also included in your course are planned visits to Edinburgh, Glasgow, and a fantastic trip to Loch Ness and the Highlands.
If you feel you need a personalised programme to suit your needs, we would be delighted to assist.
Please get in touch and we’ll create an individual teaching programme to meet your requirements.
To apply or for more information get in touch.
You may also be interested in...

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/country-specific-information:
Search for your region below and you'll discover information specific to where you're from including entry requirements, English language requirements, scholarships, useful contacts and more.
Can't see your region below?
No problem, just email us at international@stir.ac.uk and we'll be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-themes:
Our vision is to be recognised across the world as a university that addresses the needs of society through innovative interdisciplinary research.
We’re proud that our work is already making a positive impact on people’s health, education and well-being, and we’re working hard to do even more through research that is embodied within three major themes: Cultures, Communities and Society; Global Security and Resilience; and Living Well.
To understand individual experiences and behaviours, we must make sense of the related communities, cultures and societies in which they live.
We learn from the past to provide for the future.
With an increasing population, there is a global need for a sustainable way of living.
We protect the health, welfare and functioning of our communities and the environment for a secure and resilient future.
Ensuring the wellbeing of societies is a global challenge.
We understand, improve and influence behaviour change, developing approaches and interventions for positive health outcomes.
Within our themes, 12 research programmes highlight the strength of strategic research activity at Stirling.
Learn more about the wealth of innovative research taking place in our five academic faculties.
Research jobs
Join a research environment as bold as your ambitions.
Play your part in creating knowledge that makes a difference.
Ethical research
We're committed to upholding the highest ethical standards.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-programmes:
As well as grouping our research into three overarching themes, we further highlight our broad areas of expertise with 12 distinct research programmes.
Each programme is representative of the diverse interdisciplinary research taking place at the University, and underscores our commitment to carrying out work that can truly impact the world for the better.
The world's population is living longer, presenting challenges to health, long-term care and economies.
By investigating the health and social wellbeing of communities, our research results in positive change.
We conduct social, economic and health research that supports national and international study, and informs policy debate.
Through an in-depth analysis of health and social circumstances, digital technology and evaluation of policy initiatives, we enable healthier and wealthier lives for our ageing population, and deliver support for people with dementia and their families.
Academic Lead: Professor Catherine Hennessy
Social division and exclusion are increasing worldwide.
We tackle inequality by analysing social networks, geographies and big data technologies.
We leverage well-established computing and mathematical techniques, and apply them to new settings to promote equality, inclusion and fairness.
For example, we use spatial analysis to detect patterns of inequality.
This could be modelling health inequality and access to the sea, parks or woodland; or establishing a correlation between dementia rates and proximity to busy roads.
By combining existing research strengths in social networks, geographical analysis and big data technologies, we analyse population and country-scale datasets to highlight social issues on a global scale.
Academic Lead: Dr Alexander Brownlee
Research Development Officer: Fiona Millar
Heritage is central to our identity, wellbeing and resilience in the face of global challenges.
We make a difference to society by offering new perspectives on relationships between past, present and future.
The way we understand, conserve and represent heritage has important social, environmental, political and economic implications, and is particularly vital to identity, memory, and sense of place.
We examine how ideas of a shared past are created and contested through diverse forms of tangible and intangible heritage.
Integrating research in the humanities and the sciences, including digital and museological approaches, we work with communities, heritage professionals and policy-makers, to create sustainable futures through collaborative heritage practices.
Academic Programme Lead: Professor Siân Jones Deputy Programme Lead and Events: Dr Sally Foster Research Impact: Professor Ian Simpson Heritage Studies Reading Group Coordinator: Dr Jennie Morgan Research Development Officer: Gordon Marshall X: @StirHeritage
Intelligent machines are making increasingly sophisticated decisions, but, without context, they bring risk.
We seek to enhance machine-based decision-making to positively impact society.
Machines are being asked to make more complex decisions, but these decisions are fragile if the context in which they are to be made is lacking.
Humans use context to make decisions.
By exploring the role of context in relation to human behaviour, we develop computational and machine learnings and capabilities to the point where decision-making becomes more effective and, therefore, more beneficial to society as a whole.
Academic Lead: Professor Bruce Graham
Digital technologies – electronic technology that generates, stores and processes data such as mobiles, social media and online applications – pervade our everyday lives.
Promoting effective and engaged use of digital technology is at the core of our work in this area.
From a social science as well as an arts and humanities perspective, we explore the way digital technologies, connectivity and innovation interact with society and culture, focusing on the overall impact on individuals, institutions and communities.
Academic Lead: Dr Terrie Lynn Thompson
Driven by human influence, environmental change is accelerating.
We explore sustainable solutions for a more resilient future.
Human life is having a lasting influence on the earth's landscapes, ecosystems and environments.
Population growth places increased demands on global natural resources and coincides with increasing stresses on environmental systems due to climate and land use change.
Our research develops socially-inclusive practices for environmental protection, conservation, economic growth and social wellbeing.
Academic Lead: Professor Andrew Tyler
Extremes can range from bereavement to flooding; disease to social unrest.
We research how societies and ecosystems might better respond to extremes and prepare for the unexpected.
We seek to enhance resilience at all levels, from societal to individual, and thereby influence policy.
By enhancing resilience, those affected by extremes are better able to cope; communities are given a voice; and risk and vulnerability on local, national and global scales are reduced.
Academic Lead: Dr Sandra Engstrom and Dr Tony Robertson
Visit blog
Human behaviour is having an impact on health.
We explore behaviours that can improve lives, and influence policy to drive change.
By understanding the link between behaviour and health, and through ground-breaking initiatives in relation to physical exercise, tobacco control and addiction studies, we challenge behaviours that negatively impact health and wellbeing.
Our research can drive policy change that will, in turn, to influence behaviour and improve people’s lives.
Programme contacts
Academic Programme Lead: Proffesor Ronan O'Carroll
The global population is expected to rise from 7.6 billion to 9.8 billion by 2050.
Our ambition is to ensure that there is enough food for future generations.
We seek to achieve a balance between food security and biodiversity conservation.
Using our international expertise in aquatic food security, in combination with our social, economic and ecological research, we provide a holistic analysis of the challenges associated with maintaining a sustainable interface between people, their food supply and the environment.
Academic Lead: Professor Rachel Norman
Research Development Officer: Pauline Bell
See more about Global Food Security research in the Institute of Aquaculture .
Millions across the world remain homeless.
Focusing on social justice, we influence the agenda for policy and practice, promoting a safe and secure home for everyone.
We investigate the economic and social development of communities.
From the allocation of social housing and sustainable design through to town regeneration, our research enables a full understanding of people's lived experiences.
Academic Lead: Professor Isobel Anderson
Regional and international conflicts, driven by climate change, pose a serious threat to world stability.
We explore the impact of climate change on human security to manage and identify ways to resolve these conflicts.
Climate change has a direct impact on human security.
It is the cause of mass migration and property rights disputes, and places huge pressures on infrastructures and public services.
These, in turn, lead to the further degradation of the human environment, exacerbating existing problems and leading to conflicts, or civil war and military interventions.
Our research explores, from a variety of perspectives, how humans have dealt with these challenges in the past, highlighting the role of human nature, animals and conservation.
Academic Lead: Professor Holger Nehring
By investigating how human brains work in the real world, we offer a new perspective on the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of neurological conditions.
Human behaviour has traditionally been examined under laboratory conditions.
Our work moves psychology out of the lab to investigate and understand human behaviour.
We use pioneering brain imaging technology to address problems and ask questions that haven't previously been explored.
By doing so, we understand more about a wide range of neurological conditions, such as dementia, autism and abnormal brain development, than ever before.
Academic Lead: Dr Magdalena Ietswaart
Research Development Officer: Gordon Marshall
Centre for Mobile Cognition website
Our research is encompassed within three overarching themes.
Take a closer look.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/faculty-research:
Our five academic faculties have an outstanding record of conducting world-leading and internationally excellent research.
Staff collaborate across divisions and with external partners to produce research that sparks new conversations, informs government policies and impacts lives for the better.
Explore each faculty for a more detailed overview of what we’re working on.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights:
Research conducted at the University of Stirling inspires positive change, brings new perspectives and aims to address some of society’s biggest challenges.
Explore our Research Spotlight articles for a closer look at just some of the influential research we’re working on.
University of Stirling research is making a tangible difference across the globe – with new analysis recognising that 87% is of the highest standard, having an outstanding or very considerable impact on society.
We have enhanced farm management in Europe, Latin America and Africa, which has led to increases in fish production, optimising the use of space and resources, and reduced the environmental impact from aquaculture.
Our research has changed pre-hospital hypoglycaemia and handover practice across the UK and beyond.
Dunfermline Abbey is one of the most important ecclesiastical sites in Scotland.
Find out how Stirling research has been central to reshaping its rich story and bringing its historical significance to the fore.
Our research showed that a simple local solution could improve the fitness of school pupils.
Now 10,000+ schools have adopted The Daily Mile approach.
How education experts at Stirling are helping to ensure young people get the best possible education.
Learn how our research is informing best practice among mountain safety practitioners, professionals and educators around the world.
Learn how research conducted at Stirling has been pivotal to the creation of a National Surveillance Camera Strategy designed to ensure surveillance cameras are used responsibly and with transparency.
Find out more about our work to preserve and celebrate Scotland’s rich and diverse sporting history.
Our Institute of Aquaculture's priorities reflect a global interest in understanding how aquaculture can support the rapidly increasing human population without depleting wild-fish stocks.
Learn more about how our research is helping to ensure human rights are embedded across the work of government so that law and policy supports the dignity of everyone in Scotland.
Find out how our research helped to shape the world's largest ever public exhibition of the Gothic at the British Library.
We undertook the first comprehensive study of over 50s in Scotland that gathers information on their health, economic circumstances and social wellbeing.
Find out how our work to make tobacco products less attractive is helping to tackle one of society’s biggest health problems.
Discover how our research into industrial scheduling and optimisation has helped businesses in the UK and across Europe save millions of pounds in costs and years of staff time.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/public-policy-hub:
The University of Stirling is a research-led institution, delivering research that has a positive impact on communities worldwide: informing policy, influencing decisions, and changing lives.
Our researchers work closely with government, parliamentarians and civil society, placing evidence and academic rigour at the heart of policymaking.
The Stirling public policy hub brings together the latest insights, evidence and commentary from our researchers, in a one-stop-shop for policymakers.
By connecting politicians, decision makers, and practitioners with our world-leading research, we can help deliver evidence-based policy that meets the grand challenges facing society, from climate change and food security, to intergenerational wellbeing and poverty.
Read the latest insights from our researchers on topical and emerging policy debates.
Access policy briefing papers summarising our research.
Use our search function to find a relevant expert at the University.
World-leading research
Stirling and Clacks pupils are ideal employment candidates
Liquor Licensing review recommends reform
MSPs back University-led tree-planting initiative
University of Stirling Communications team
+ 44 (0) 1786 466687 communications@stir.ac.uk
X: @StirUniNews

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity:
The University of Stirling is committed to the highest possible ethical standards.
We promote a culture of best practice and integrity in all our research through the core values of honesty, rigour, open communication, care, and respect.
To safeguard the interests of researchers, participants and funding bodies, research within the University only proceeds after strict scrutiny by one of our three internal Research Ethics Panels.
Read more about the research values we hold to in The Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
As part of every research project we undertake, we ensure the highest possible care and ethical standards, promoting a culture of best practice.
Governing any health/patient research requiring approval by the NHS Research Ethics Committee and/or taking place with NHS staff, patients or on NHS premises.
The GUEP considers most research proposals which do not involve animals, require approval by the NHS Research Ethics Committee or involve physically invasive procedures or intrusive interventions on human participants.
Research Ethics in Practice is a self-paced, practical guide exploring working with human participants, approvals, confidentiality, consent, data management, working ethically in challenging circumstances and working ethically in a global environment.
The course will support an understanding of complex research situations, raise awareness of potential risks for harmful consequences from a variety of perspectives, and make suggestions on how to avoid ethical challenges and take appropriate actions.
All undergraduate students and postgraduate taught can access the training resources via the internal student Ethics Review Manager webpage.
Postgraduate researchers and research active staff can access the resources via the appropriate IAS Canvas module.
UKRIO’s Introduction to Research Integrity is an online self-paced four-module course which offers a strong foundation in research integrity principles and practical guidance on applying them in everyday research practice.
Content includes topics on research ethics, conflicts of interest, data management, authorship, and AI.
This training is available to PGRs, academics and research professionals.
Complete our research integrity expression of interest form to receive a link to the training.
Need ethical approval?
Access the forms you need if you're a member of University staff or student requiring ethical approval for your research.
Find out how our structure promotes a culture of research integrity.
Every student dissertation should be considered for ethical implications.
If you have a general question about our ethics policies and procedures, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
Here at the University of Stirling, we have put considerable effort over the last few years into explicitly supporting a healthy research culture.
This is an ongoing process and it will be a core element to the University Research Strategy that we are currently developing.
We believe that encouraging a supportive culture of collaboration and teamwork will allow all of our staff to achieve their potential.
The Royal Society say “Research culture encompasses the behaviours, values, expectations, attitudes and norms of our research communities.
It influences researchers' career paths and determines the way that research is conducted and communicated.”
There are several different themes which contribute to research culture, these include: Staff at all levels acting as good role models and demonstrating fair, collaborative and supportive behaviour; A framework for the expectations, communication and support for good research integrity and ethics practices; Clear processes for two-way communication between all groups and within and across different parts of the University; Provision of the right facilities, support and infrastructure to enable the research to be carried out effectively and well.
As we think of practical solutions to help with this, we need to ensure equality, diversity and inclusion considerations are embedded within them.
There is evidence that high-performance research units are built on a strong, inclusive culture and an open and transparent set of values.
There is also evidence that more diverse teams and happier staff are both more productive and a positive research culture should lead to both of those.
We therefore anticipate that if we can get the research culture right across the institution then that will improve performance in terms of grant income, high quality publications and impact.
The right research culture should benefit staff across all career stages and will support staff to regain or retain research momentum as we emerge from the COVID-19 crisis into a complex and challenging external environment.
Here are just some of the initiatives helping to enhance our research culture.
The Research Environment Group (REG) aims to consider and develop our research environment and culture.
It is responsible for coordinating both the delivery of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the HR Excellence in Research Award action plans and the biennial benchmarking survey Culture, Employment and Development of Academic Researchers.
REG has 19 members and a cross Faculty representation of both academic and professional services staff, and works to refresh and reinvigorate institutional policies and practices and co-design best endeavours to target support to the researcher community.
The Festival of Research is an annual series of events committed to stimulating discussion around topics of interest to the researcher community and a platform for researchers to learn more about the diverse nature of research across our own University and beyond.
The Festival includes the Research Culture Awards; an opportunity to value those traits which are not captured by traditional metrics and to recognise people and groups who positively contribute to a vibrant and collaborative research culture here at Stirling.
The Research Culture Champions Network is a community of people from across all faculties and career stages who have either been nominated regularly for the Research Culture awards or have been actively engaged in good work to support one another and promote a positive research culture.
These champions are role models and represent different aspects of our research culture, some are professors who lead large research groups, some are working at faculty or divisional level on research culture, some work closely with PGRs, and some are earlier in their career and therefore our professors of the future.
We want to make sure everyone involved in research at the University has a voice.
We conduct and participate in regular major surveys of research staff, including the Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey, and the Research Integrity Survey.
By gathering and sharing results, we seek to be open about the challenges we face and the areas we need to improve on.
Other forums, such as our Café Culture Conversation, offer regular face-to-face opportunities to feed into institutional policies around research and create solutions for change.
We have signed a number of agreements and concordats all of which demonstrate our commitment to providing a fair and supportive research culture and environment.
This includes ensuring fair processes for assessing researchers and providing appropriate support for researchers throughout their careers.
We are committed to The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
Our Research Environment Group oversees implementation of our obligations under the Concordat by providing support to the researcher community, with mental health and wellbeing, research culture, inclusivity and personal and professional career development at the heart of this endeavour.
As part of a two-year action plan, we are proactively working with staff to gather views, create targeted resources and offer training support and time to address the changing needs of researchers.
The University of Stirling signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) in March 2020 to underline our commitment to enhancing research excellence.
By signing DORA, we are highlighting our concern over the use of quantitative indicators as a proxy for research quality and that we want to put forward a fair and transparent mechanism for monitoring and reporting research performance.
We have received the HR Excellence in Research Award, which recognises that the University is committed to supporting researchers in their careers, improving the quality and impact of research and encouraging internal culture change.
Our Research Environment Group is responsible for coordinating the delivery of our HR Excellence in Research action plans, and does so through initiatives such as our Culture, Employment and Development of Academic Researcher benchmarking survey.
Ethics and integrity
See the latest research job opportunities available at the University of Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business:
Are you ready to take your business to the next level?
The University of Stirling offers a suite of support services for business creation, development, innovation and growth.
As an institution with a strong reputation for research impact , we work with business and industry to solve real-world problems and drive innovation.
Want to turn your big business idea into reality?
Our Enterprise Programme helps start-ups and entrepreneurs through development, launch and growth.
Businesses can also work with our experts through our business consultancy services to address knowledge gaps and help your business grow.
Our courses and training can help you develop and retain your staff.
We offer specialist staff training, Continuing Professional Development (CPD), upskilling, funded learning opportunities, graduate apprenticeships and management courses.
From initial ideas to launch and internationalisation, our Enterprise Programme is here to support your business growth.
The University of Stirling offers a range of training and development opportunities for you and your staff to boost business skills and retain talent.
Build your business with our impactful research, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and business consultancy services.
We can help you get the funding you need to support growth and innovation to take your business to the next level.
Grow your business and nurture fresh talent.
Our capable students can support your business through internships, consultancy projects or work placements.
We can also help you recruit our students .
We offer a wide range of event and conference venues, and our in-house graphic design and print teams can meet any marketing brief.
Stirling Business School
Our students can help your business with strategy, growth, business analytics, marketing and other business skills.
Scotland’s International Environment Centre
A centre of environmental innovation excellence, delivering net zero solutions and enabling clean economic growth.
Innovation Park
Join an on-campus Stirling business hub that’s home to dynamic enterprises and ambitious start-ups.
More than 80% of our research
is world-leading or internationally excellent
87% of our research
has an outstanding or very considerable impact on society
4th in Scotland
for research impact
Times Higher Education

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/ref-2029-at-stirling:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
It first took place in 2014 and then again in 2021.
The next exercise is planned for 2029, and we will need to make our submission at the end of 2028.
The rationale for REF is to:
The exercise is divided into three elements:
Our REF 2029 preparations and submission are governed by a Code of Practice developed in consultation with staff.
Read more about our REF 2021 results .
University of Stirling staff can visit our internal SharePoint website for the latest information and resources related to REF 2029.
Stirling’s REF 2029 preparations are managed by the Research Performance and Impact team (RPI) within RIBE.
The SharePoint site for staff includes more information about:
The REF 2029 timetable outlines key dates scheduled between now and the publication of REF results in 2029.
The timetable includes planned dates for the publication of submission deadlines, guidance for participants and more.
You can see the full timetable on the REF 2029 website .
The most recent Research Excellence Framework took place in 2021.
Our Spotlight on REF 2021 provides an overview of our results and information about some of the influential research taking place at the University of Stirling.
University staff can also explore our REF 2021 results using our Power BI dashboard .
Read more about research at the University of Stirling .
Professor appointed to REF pilot panel
Stirling academics appointed to REF pilot research panels

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/impact-at-stirling:
At the University of Stirling, impact is at the heart of our research culture.
Our academics collaborate to meet societal needs, enhancing the quality of spaces, places, and lives through interdisciplinary research.
Impact is understood as the demonstrable benefit that research makes to society, the economy, or the environment.
Put simply, if you can show that your research benefits someone or something outside of academia, it has impact.
University staff can access a more detailed guide to impact, complete with planning tools, procedures, and templates on our Research Performance and Impact SharePoint site.
You can also explore our staff resources for REF 2029 for more information about impact in the Research Excellence Framework.
From reducing youth smoking to enhancing avalanche safety, our Research Spotlights contain many excellent examples of impact that have arisen from research conducted here at Stirling.
Congratulations to Dr Catherine Mills, Dr Colin Moran, and Dr Heather Price, who were highly commended as part of the 2024 Research Culture Awards for their Outstanding Activities to Support Research Impact.
Here are a few words from their nominations:
"Catherine’s work represents a compelling model which other colleagues have taken inspiration from, enabling us to 'normalise' impactful activity and community co-production within many other projects and Divisional research culture generally.
Catherine is also a fierce advocate for her projects and their community partners - as you really have to be - and her persistence in pursuing funding and meaningful research must be recognised."
"Colin has been meeting individually with multiple colleagues recently to guide us through the concept of REF impact case studies - what they are, how to maximise them, what data we need and generally help us to think it all through.
This must be a huge burden finding the time to spend several hours with each person, but it is incredibly helpful given his expertise and experience.
Massively appreciated, thank you."
"Heather is doing an amazing job of raising awareness around air pollution and working with different stakeholders to mitigate its impacts.
Some of the ways Heather is creating impact is through the dissemination of research findings to diverse audiences, running outreach events, particularly with school children, and also feeding into Government consultations and policies.
Many of these activities take place outside of contracted hours, highlighting Heather’s dedication and contribution to this field."
The University’s Research Performance and Impact team support researchers by providing advice and training on all things impact, from impact planning and funding to evidence collection.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/festival-of-research:
The Festival of Research has been running since 2017 as an annual series of events committed to stimulating discussion around topics of interest to the researcher community and a platform to showcase research and future plans, celebrate successes and facilitate networking opportunities.
The mini-Festival of Research 2025 will take place on Monday 27 October and Wednesday 29 October 2025.
This year’s Festival events aim to foster community engagement around our interdisciplinary research and celebrate staff contributions over the year in our annual Research Culture Awards.
The programme is now open for registration .
It includes:
Plenary, Panel and World Café sessions will bring together researchers participating in or interested in interdisciplinary research.
They offer a space for meaningful discussions on building and sustaining successful interdisciplinary teams and research portfolios, shaping our collective missions, and fostering valuable networking opportunities.
Our missions are:
Register for the Interdisciplinary Engagement Event .
Now in its 6th year, the Research Culture Awards are a way to recognise and encourage collaborative behaviour and celebrate colleagues who demonstrate good role modelling across the career spectrum to create a shared understanding of what we value at Stirling.
Nominations are now open and can be made across eight categories:
Nominate a colleague to let them know you value them and why .
Nominations close on Friday 26 September 2025.
The Awards Ceremony will be co-hosted by Professor Rachel Norman (former Dean for Research Engagement and Performance) and Professor Anna Whittaker (Chair of the Research Environment Group).
Register for the Awards Ceremony .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/concordat-and-hr-excellence-in-research:
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, or Researcher Development Concordat, is an agreement between institutions, researchers, managers of researchers and funders to collectively improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
First published in 2008, the revised 2019 Researcher Development Concordat was published in September 2019 and provides a framework to support the career development of researchers in UK universities and research institutes.
The Concordat defines the key principles of researcher development, which the University is committed to supporting, for research staff across all disciplines.
The University of Stirling declared its commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers by becoming a signatory in October 2020.
Professor Paul Townsend (Deputy Principal for Research and Innovation) acts as University Concordat Senior Manager Champion.
Professor Paul Townsend, Deputy Principal (Research and Innovation) said: “Signing the Researcher Development Concordat demonstrates the University’s ongoing commitment to support our researchers in their professional development.
At Stirling we will continue to equip and empower our researchers to succeed in their chosen careers.”
The development and coordination of the newly published Concordat action plan and the continued work on the HR Excellence in Research Award is led by the Research Environment Group (REG).
REG reports to the University Research and Innovation Committee and has cross Faculty representation from both academic and professional service teams and is chaired by Professor Anna Whittaker, Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport.
The University’s progress in delivering actions related to the Researcher Development Concordat will be reported annually to University Court and will be published below.
For more information contact researchenvironmentgroup@stir.ac.uk
Stirling first achieved the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2011.
The UK-wide process, managed by Vitae , incorporates the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
The European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research accreditation is awarded to those institutions which demonstrate a commitment to, and alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers.
Former REG Chair, Professor Edward Duncan, said, “since becoming a formal signatory to the Concordat in October 2020, REG continues to engage with the researcher community to gain a better understanding of the challenges and opportunities faced today.
We are committed to enhancing our inclusive and positive research environment through the practical actions outlined in the Concordat Action Plan and are delighted to receive this award in recognition of our ongoing efforts.”
The 12-year report, an update on our previous action plan and the new HREiR/Concordat Action 2023-26 plan can be viewed below.
We welcome feedback on our support for researchers at any time.
Please contact ias@stir.ac.uk with any comments or queries.
Further information about the award is available from the European Commission or for information about its operation in the UK visit the Vitae website .
You can download a copy of the 2019 Researcher Development Concordat .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/international-research-toolkit:
Research is an international endeavour, and collaboration and research teams are essential to our research environment and culture.
COVID-19 has changed the way that we work, and there is a need to develop ways of managing and delivering collaborative research at a distance when we no longer have the same ability to meet and conduct research in person.
The University of Stirling, in partnership with colleagues from University of Cape Town (UCT), Universidade Estadual Paulista - São Paulo State University - (UNESP) and Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), has developed a Distanced Research Toolkit that will support and enable researchers and those supporting research to work together virtually.
The Toolkit will help to catalyse equitable research and knowledge exchange activities between institutions in the Global South and the Global North.
Access the Distanced Research Toolkit
The Toolkit provides key information, case studies and structured resources to support the creation of new research collaborations, the drafting of collaborative research proposals, and the management of GCRF/international funded research projects.
Please contact us with any questions about the Distanced Research Toolkit.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/contact-research-innovation-and-business-engagement:
Head of Research & Innovation (SAIC)
Knowledge Exchange Manager (SAIC)
David Cunningham
Knowledge Exchange Officer (SAIC)
Lynsey Muir­
Lorna Valentine
Project Support Officer (SAIC)

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-are-doing/sustainable-development-goals:
The University of Stirling Sustainable Development Goals Report 2024 provides an update on the magnitude of work and activity that takes place on campus and throughout the community to achieve national and international impact that contributes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
The report will focus on four key areas of activity within each SDG:
This report would not be possible without the immense contribution and innovation from the entire University of Stirling community.
This report is produced and steered by Policy and Planning with special thanks to colleagues across the University for their input and guidance.
Goal 1: No Poverty
Goal 2: Zero hunger
Goal 3: Good health and wellbeing
Goal 4: Quality Education
Goal 5: Gender Equality
Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy
Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities
Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production
Goal 13: Climate Action
Goal 14: Life below Water
Goal 15: Life on Land
Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Goal 17: Partnership for the Goals
For all queries about work in our work in Sustainable Development Goals, contact the Policy and Planning team.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/research-news:
A project building on a 2015 University of Stirling study could harness AI to support those with hearing loss
Researchers studied more than 6,000 individuals in relationships, examining how they found their partners and the impact this had on relationship satisfaction
Scottish Government has been urged to resolve "complex and underfunded" process for home adaptations.
Stirling research found that the direct pathway to one-stop breast assessment clinics also improved the patient experience
Dr Lorna Gibb's book tells the stories of the world's rare and vanishing languages.
University of Stirling to play a crucial role
Six projects have been selected
A Stirling-led study could have a major impact on one of the world's fastest growing sports
It is hoped that the research will help our understanding of neurological disease, particularly Alzheimer’s.
Scientists at the University of Stirling have carried out the first study into co-pollution – where plastics in the sea act as carriers for other chemical contaminants, including ultraviolet (UV) filters from sunscreen.
A record 2,389 universities submitted evidence to the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025
New research challenges the previous assumption that asexual females of the species could not mate and produce offspring sexually
Alterations to the diet of pests could impact how quickly they can adapt to biopesticides
A range of high-tech scientific monitoring equipment has been installed
A group of housing bodies has commissioned the work, which will consider what is needed in terms of funding and support.
The new framework will support teacher educators in encouraging student teachers to embed sustainability into their teaching
Biodiversity benefits are improved if land managers are able to consider current and historic use of the landscape
Investment drive aiming to regenerate Black Sea communities launched in Bucharest
Research by the Stirling team found 61 examples of alcohol industry corporate social responsibility and marketing activity, across six African countries
The journal showcases cutting-edge research by postgraduate and PhD students at Stirling, and practitioners in the sector and other institutions.
The system will help to address the public health issue created by discharge from effluent pipes
A specialist service in Scotland has empowered families through the asylum process.
Workplace activity participation challenges can significantly and immediately improve physical fitness and wellbeing
How the behaviour of both dog and human affects the success of truffle hunting.
The inventor of basketball, Dr James Naismith, considered himself to be a Scot.
Beaver dams act as traps for pollutants, improving downstream water quality
A review of Liquor Licensing has been carried out by experts at the University of Stirling
Claire Baker urges public to show more compassion.
A new £500,000 project aims to ensure care decisions are informed by views and experiences
Air quality experiences in Forth Valley can be recorded
The University hopes to bring new audiences to the classic tale and highlight its own research into privacy and surveillance.
Professor Rachel Norman will work on indicators to be used to assess People Culture and Environment
Elite-level bridge uses body and mind interconnectedly, says the study.
The initiative is part of £10 million project to create stronger communities UK-wide.
Researchers will run a series of roadshows in Scotland to further raise awareness among the public.
Professor Iain Docherty and Professor Jayne Donaldson will participate
Fear of discrimination means LGBT+ people can delay claiming benefits.
Honorary Professor Markus Krebsz developed the principles on artificial intelligence embedded products.
Stirling academics and BBC filmmakers discussed issues of modern slavery in global supply chains.
Former First Minister and University of Stirling Chancellor to lead Black Sea regeneration group
Endangered mountain trees and shrubs are making a comeback in Scotland, a study has shown.
A neuropsychologist at the University of Stirling has played a key role in an overhaul of the Scottish Sports Concussion Guidance
A new study, led by Professor Annalisa Savaresi at the University of Stirling, has revealed a surge in legal challenges associated with climate policies and projects.
New research has found only 14% of children aged three- to four-years -old are getting adequate physical activity, sleep and time away from screens.
The University of Stirling and the BBC are teaming up for an exclusive event which will lift the lid on child labour linked to the perfume industry.
Ten free public events will take place across central Scotland as part of this year's Festival of Social Science from the University of Stirling.
"Serious games" can help overcome the stigma that still exists around ageing, according to Stirling researchers.
The University of Stirling’s Faculty of Arts and Humanities has been awarded a £3.98m Leverhulme International Professorship grant from the Leverhulme Trust – becoming the first Scottish institution to receive the prestigious award.
Students can be swayed by the performance of English Premier League football clubs when choosing a university, according to new research.
Scotland’s care system is taking years to find many of the country's most vulnerable children permanent homes – and too many of them have no contact with their siblings, according to new research.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/artificial-intelligence-powered-glasses-could-be-a-gamechanger-for-those-with-hearing-loss:
14 August 2025 Share
A University of Stirling researcher is part of a UK-wide team studying 'hearing glasses' that could dramatically improve how people with hearing loss experience sound by combining lip-reading technology and artificial intelligence - potentially enhanced by the power of cloud computing.
The COG-MHEAR programme is funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and led by Professor Amir Hussain at Edinburgh Napier University.
A 5G-cloud-based noise cleaning strand of the work, which builds on a pioneering 2015 study into audio-visual hearing aids led by Professor Hussain when at the University of Stirling , has been co-led by Heriot-Watt University and involves Dr Ahsan Adeel from the University of Stirling’s Faculty of Natural Sciences – working alongside researchers from the University of Edinburgh and Edinburgh Napier University.
A potential application could build on the concept of a 5G-IoT cloud-based audio-visual hearing aid proposed in a paper in 2018 by Dr Adeel , Associate Professor in Artificial Intelligence in the University of Stirling’s Computing Science and Mathematics Division, and Professor Hussain.
This could help with hearing loss by creating a device that filters out background noise in real time, even in loud environments.
It may use a small camera built into glasses to track the speaker’s lip movements, while a smartphone app could use 5G to send both audio and visual data to a powerful cloud server.
There, artificial intelligence could isolate the speaker’s voice from surrounding noise and send the cleaned-up sound back to the listener's hearing aid or headphones almost instantly.
Professor Mathini Sellathurai from Heriot-Watt is co-leading the wireless 5G-cloud-based noise cleaning strand of the work.
She said: “We’re not trying to reinvent hearing aids.
We’re trying to give them superpowers.
“You simply point the camera or look at the person you want to hear.
“Even if two people are talking at once, the AI uses visual cues to extract the voice of the person you’re looking at.”
This approach, known as audio-visual speech enhancement, takes advantage of the close link between lip movements and speech.
While some noise-cancelling technologies already exist, they struggle with overlapping voices or complex background sounds—something this system aims to overcome.
“There are only a few big companies that make hearing aids, and they have limited support in noisy environments.
We want to break that barrier and help more people, especially children and older adults, access affordable, AI-driven hearing support.”
More than 1.2 million adults in the UK have hearing loss severe enough to make ordinary conversation difficult, according to the Royal National Institute for Deaf People.
Hearing aids can help, but most are limited by size and processing power and often struggle in noisy places like cafés, stations or workplaces.
One option is to shift the heavy processing work to cloud servers – some as far away as Stockholm – allowing the researchers to apply powerful deep-learning algorithms without overloading the small, wearable device.
“There’s a slight delay, since the sound travels to Sweden and back,” said Professor Sellathurai, “but with 5G, it’s fast enough to feel instant.”
The COG-MHEAR team led by Professor Hussain is working on multiple fronts, from on-device edge AI to complementary cloud AI, to achieve optimal results for sustainability.
The researchers are working towards a functional version of glasses as well as other form factors.
They're also speaking to hearing aid manufacturers about future partnerships and hoping to reduce costs to make the devices more widely available.
Professor Sellathurai believes the cloud-based model could one day be made public, allowing anyone with a compatible device to connect and benefit.
The COG-MHEAR project is led by Professor Amir Hussain, from Edinburgh Napier University.
The COG-MHEAR team also includes co-investigators from the universities of Glasgow, Edinburgh, Manchester and Nottingham as well as key collaborators from University of Oxford and Academia Sinica in Taiwan.
The project’s industry collaborators include Nokia Bell Labs and Sonova AG.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/couples-who-meet-online-are-less-happy-in-love-according-to-new-study:
People who meet their romantic partners online report lower levels of marital satisfaction and experience love less intensely than those who meet in person.
The finding has emerged from a new study by an international team of researchers led by Dr Marta Kowal from the University of Wrocław , with contributions from experts at the Australian National University (ANU) and Professor Craig Roberts, a Professor of Psychology at the University of Stirling.
Using nationally representative data from 50 countries collected by the Being Human Lab at the University of Wroclaw the researchers studied 6,646 individuals in relationships, examining how they found their partners and the impact this had on relationship satisfaction.
On average, 16 per cent of participants met their partners online, with this figure rising to 21 per cent among those who initiated their romantic relationships after 2010.
Professor Roberts said: “Our study addresses how the internet is changing the ways in which we find and meet partners, and what this could mean for relationship dynamics.
“Key strengths are the size of our study and the fact that the sample is drawn from such a wide range of countries across the world.
“However, we must remember that the findings are correlational: they don't imply that relationships which began online are doomed to being unsatisfying, just as partners who meet in real life are not guaranteed to have a long-lasting relationship.
“But they do reveal interesting patterns which may tell us something about the likelihood of relationships succeeding when they begin in the digital space.”
Professor Craig Roberts of the University of Stirling.
According to the researchers, several factors could explain the study’s findings, including the fact that couples who meet offline tend to be more homogamous – or have similar characteristics – than those who meet online.
“Participants who met their partners online reported lower relationship satisfaction and intensity of experienced love, including intimacy, passion and commitment, compared to those who met offline,” study co-author and ANU PhD student Adam Bode said.
“Similar social and educational backgrounds can positively influence relationship quality by fostering greater social support and acceptance, shared life experiences, and alignment in values and worldviews.
“The internet provides access to a seemingly limitless pool of potential partners, but while this abundance could help individuals find an ideal match, in practice, it often leads to choice overload.”
Interestingly, the study findings counter earlier research suggesting that individuals from rural areas are more likely to seek partners online due to geographic constraints.
“In our study, individuals from rural and urban areas were equally likely to meet their partners online,” Mr Bode explained.
“Contrary to earlier findings, we also found no evidence that younger people were more inclined to meet partners online.
This suggests that navigating online spaces has become accessible across age groups.”
The researchers believe motivations for online dating have evolved with “swipe culture”, which describes the immediate nature of dating apps, and where prioritising physical attractiveness over a thorough selection process is more prevalent.
Mr Bode added: “While early users sought lifelong partners, modern users increasingly pursue casual relationships.
This shift toward short-term, less committed relationships may, in turn, contribute to lower relationship quality.
“The other complication that occurs online is the risk of ignoring potential red flags that are more apparent in real-life interactions.
“Given that online dating continues to grow worldwide, our findings underscore the need to enhance support for improving relationship quality among all couples, particularly those who met their partners online.”
The study was a collaboration between experts at the University of Wroclaw, ANU and the University of Stirling.
The research has been published in the journal Telematics and Informatics .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/report-warns-of-accessible-homes-crisis:
12 August 2025 Share
Thousands of Scots are living in homes unsuitable for their needs, according to a new report carried out by academics from the University of Stirling-led Intersectional Stigma of Place-Based Ageing project (ISPA).
The What’s Next For Adaptations report, which analyses demand in Scotland for home adaptations such as stairlifts, grabrails and wet rooms, has said the system for accessing these adaptations is too complex, underfunded and is often inconsistent.
Living in unsuitable accommodation can have a devastating impact on people’s ability to do essential day to day activities, such as bathing or leaving their home .
The research has revealed that policy failure  around adaptations is putting significant strain on the NHS.
The report said that older and disabled people who were unable to access required adaptations were more prone to falls and injuries in their homes.
It added that Scotland is also lacking a single accountable body to oversee the adaptations process and collect relevant data.
Access to adaptations not only differs depending on where applicants live, but also whether they own their home, rent privately, or from a social landlord.
Noting that the solutions are clear but underfunded, or not put in place, researchers and housing bodies have urged the Scottish Government to increase the budget for adaptations and create a tailored approach.
The calls come from the Scottish Federation of Housing Associations (SFHA), the Chartered Institute of Housing Scotland (CIH Scotland) and the Association of Local Authority Chief Housing Officers (ALACHO), who commissioned the research in association with ISPA and the University of Stirling.
It comes amid warnings that Scotland’s healthy life expectancy is declining, whilst the population of those aged over 60 is set to exceed 1.7million by 2035.
SFHA Chief Executive Sally Thomas said: “This crucial research shines a light on the complex and unfair process people go through every day just to access vital adaptations which help them live well and for longer in their home.
“The current adaptations system is unfit for our ageing population and places too much emphasis on whether someone rents or owns their home, where they live, and what funding they can access instead of people’s needs.
“Housing associations are at the forefront of helping people live well and for longer in their homes and already support tenants by installing everything from grabrails and stairlifts, to larger-scale adaptations such as wet rooms.
“However, the system not only needs more funding, but also to be simplified so everyone can access the adaptations they need irrespective of where they live and whether they rent or own their home.”
Professor Vikki McCall from the University of Stirling's Faculty of Social Sciences , who led the ISPA research said: “While our population is living longer, that doesn’t mean we are living well.
With costs rising for housing adaptations - estimates are that Scotland is likely to spend more than £76 million a year on adaptations by 2040 - it is clear that changes are needed, and urgently.
All our research points to the need for future-proofing of Scotland’s housing stock, early intervention, and age-friendly, inclusive designs.”
Ashley Campbell, Policy and Practice Manager at CIH Scotland, said: “This new research adds to a significant and growing body of work on what’s needed to improve the adaptations system in Scotland.
"The message is clear – we know that investing in adaptations saves money for health and social care partners and improves people’s lives.
But this isn’t just about the fundin.
The system can be complex, time consuming and inconsistent.
We need the Scottish Government to fulfil its commitment to review the adaptations system and remove barriers to accessing support.”
Read the report here: SFHA - ISPA What's Next for Adaptations - Summary DIGITAL.pdf

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/improving-the-worlds-water-with-earth-observation-expertise:
The University’s leadership in Earth observation expertise began in the mid-1990s, when our scientists identified a major deficiency in the monitoring of the world’s freshwater; vital decisions were being taken based on limited representative evidence, despite the constantly changing nature of water bodies.
Scientists in the Division of Biological and Environmental Sciences developed Earth observation technology, utilising satellites, airborne and in-situ sensors capable of providing comprehensive data on the world’s rivers, lakes, reservoirs and seas.
This data enabled our scientists to develop globally adaptive models and open-source algorithms which underpinned the first openly accessible, satellite-based inland water data processing system.
Our scientists can now diagnose water quality issues worldwide, informing policy and decision-making in multiple countries.
University scientists work with Ukrainian academics to demonstrate remote Earth observation monitoring of water quality in Ukraine.
The £2.9 million GloboLakes project (2012-2018), funded by the Natural Environment Research Council, was led by the Division of Biological and Environmental Sciences and applied Earth observation technology to monitor the condition of the world’s 1,000 largest lakes for the first time.
Researchers developed the globally adaptive models and open-source algorithms which underpin the first openly accessible, satellite-based inland water data processing system.
This galvanised more than 20 organisations worldwide to share water quality data, transforming our understanding of how lakes are responding to environmental change.
The Division’s adaptive models and algorithms enabled the UN World Water Quality Alliance to undertake water quality monitoring of more than 50% of inland water bodies.
This underpins global and national water security initiatives to help deliver Sustainable Development Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation).
Sentinel-3 Earth observation satellite, which provides images to University researchers, allowing data to be gathered from lakes (European Space Agency).
Image credit: European Space Agency
Through collaboration, the Earth observation technology deployed through GloboLakes has also enabled the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) to transform its management of water bodies.
The move from basic statutory monitoring to advanced analytics and collaboration is enabling SEPA to proactively tackle climate change and plan for a more sustainable future as part of Scotland’s transition to net zero.
Further proactive engagement with industry saw both Anglian Water and Scottish Water apply the Division’s Earth observation expertise to increase sustainability, deliver cost savings and further improve the provision of safe drinking water.
Our scientists' distinct approach also supports a rapidly growing pan-European research infrastructure, providing enhanced monitoring of river-sea systems.
DANUBIUS-RI (2016-present) applies the Division's algorithms to 12 European digital observatories, providing integrated studies of river catchments from source to sea.
GloboLakes applied Earth observation technology to monitor the condition of the world’s lakes for the first time.
85%
of the world’s surface freshwaters are lakes and reservoirs
50%
are now monitored by satellites, using algorithms designed by our scientists
30 years
of research expertise informs interventions that improves water quality worldwide
The quality of our experts' work was recognised in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, placing it in the UK’s top 30 institutions across its research outputs and research environment, and 12th in the UK for research impact.
The University is the only UK higher education institution offering modules that include a focus on freshwater Earth observation, from fundamentals to application.
Since 1995, 50 PhD theses have advanced research into water quality.
Watch: The University of Stirling welcomes academics from the Odesa State Environmental University to explore satellite Earth Observation capabilities for monitoring water quality.
The war in Ukraine has damaged critical water infrastructure, including water pumping stations, purification plants and wastewater treatment facilities – contaminating ground and surface waters.
With water sampling challenging during times of conflict, our scientists are conducting remote monitoring using Earth observation capabilities developed as part of the DOORS project – providing critical safety information which could be used to aid recovery.
A recent study analysing the destruction of the Kakhovka Dam in 2023 provided vital data on the impact of the explosion on water quality in the Black Sea.
With this technology in place across the region, scientists can safely monitor water quality remotely in territories made unsafe because of war.
Our integral role in the £7.5 million Developing Optimal and Open Research Support for the Black Sea (DOORS) project is applying our environmental monitoring expertise on an international scale in southeast Europe.
Once facing ecological collapse due to overfishing, pollution and eutrophication, the Black Sea’s fragile recovery is now threatened by new pollutants, including microplastics.
The DOORS System of Systems – a comprehensive data platform developed by our experts and partners across Europe – provides critical insights into water quality on a sea-wide scale for the first time.
Combined with the project's harmonisation of data collection methods, this advanced modelling enables more effective interventions and supports Black Sea countries in adhering to the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive.
Watch: The DOORS project brings together expertise and technology from 35 institutions from the Black Sea region and other European countries to address the human and climate change impacts on damaged ecosystems.
Our distinct, whole-system approach of smart diagnostics and innovative solutions means our earth observation expertise is impacting policy and practice across a wide range of fields:
Launched to an international audience at COP26, the Forth Environmental Resilience Array (Forth-ERA) is the world’s first catchment scale environmental monitoring system.
Forth-ERA provides live and real-time water quality data, collecting more than 100 million data points on the environment annually.
Forth-ERA’s advanced modelling capability enables businesses, policymakers and conservationists to trial new, lower carbon ways of working by assessing their impacts on water quality.
Internationally scalable, the technology can be deployed worldwide, as part of our ambition for the Forth Valley to become a global exemplar net zero regional economy.
University of Stirling  scientists have pioneered a lifesaving satellite emergency mapping system.
The Satellite Emergency Mapping Service (SEMS) was unveiled at the inaugural Space-Comm Expo in Glasgow, and will assist responders during extreme weather events.
SEMS uses state-of-the-art satellite imaging technology to deliver real-time, high-resolution data and insights that will enhance decision-making capabilities and enable faster, more efficient response efforts when disasters strike.
Led by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA), the service will revolutionise the way Scotland responds to emergencies such as floods, wildfires, landslides, and oil spills.
The Division's scientists have applied their distinct approach to a rapidly growing pan-European research infrastructure, providing enhanced monitoring of river-sea systems.
DANUBIUS-RI applies the Division's algorithms to 12 European digital observatories, providing integrated studies of river catchments from source to sea.
The project aims to to equip communities with the information services and knowledge, to help them counter the effects of climate change.
This expertise is being combined with terrestrial and coastal monitoring as part of an integrated approach to observing the land-sea interface through the EU-funded LandSeaLOT project .
See members of the Earth and Planetary Observation Research Group.
The biogeochemical response of the north-western Black Sea to the Kakhovka Dam breach
Jiang D, Khokhlov V, Tuchkovenko Y, Kushnir D, Ovcharuk V, Spyrakos E, Stanica A, Slabakova V & Tyler A (2025) The biogeochemical response of the north-western Black Sea to the Kakhovka Dam breach.
Communications Earth & Environment, 6, Art.
No.: 185.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s43247-025-02153-z
A data driven approach to flag land affected signals in satellite derived water quality from small lakes
Jiang D, Scholze J, Liu X, Simis SG, Stelzer K, Müller D, Hunter P, Tyler A & Spyrakos E (2023) A data driven approach to flag land affected signals in satellite derived water quality from small lakes.
International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, 117, Art.
No.: 103188.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2023.103188
Advancing integrated research on European river-sea systems: the DANUBIUS-RI project
Bradley C, Bowes MJ, Brils J, Friedrich J, Gault J, Groom S, Hein T, Heininger P, Michalopoulos P, Panin N, Schultz M, Stanica A, Andrei I, Tyler A & Umgiesser G (2018) Advancing integrated research on European river-sea systems: the DANUBIUS-RI project.
International Journal of Water Resources Development, 34 (6), pp.
888-899.
https://doi.org/10.1080/07900627.2017.1399107

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/saving-europes-freshwaters:
Freshwater ecosystems have shaped and benefited humanity from early times.
Now, they are in a grave state, facing the highest rates of biodiversity loss of all ecosystems globally.
Our research has been critical to implementing major new policies to repair tens of thousands of water bodies across Europe.
Part of our research looks at the work of nature’s iconic engineers, beavers, who are providing new insights into rewilding and restoring agricultural landscapes.
The EU Water Framework Directive (WFD), adopted in 2000, took a pioneering holistic approach to water management.
This new approach was based on geographical catchments known as River Basin Districts, rather than the traditional use of administrative or political boundaries.
However, the solutions for improvement are complicated, especially when freshwater ecosystems are impacted by multiple pressures and shared by countries with piecemeal management policies.
There was a big challenge in harmonising hundreds of national methods developed for assessing the ecological health of water bodies.
Our research tackles these challenges, providing solutions that apply across Europe.
"We’re helping water managers, policy makers and environmental and conservation agencies with their work, especially those implementing EU strategies, such as the 2020 EU Biodiversity Strategy."
The University’s freshwater science research team, including Professor Nigel Willby, Dr Dan Chapman, Dr Zarah Pattison, Dr Alan Law and Dr Colin Bull, researches and provides scientific advice for national and international water policy and management.
Our research addresses two main themes of assessment and monitoring, and restoration and management.
10,000s
of water bodies across Europe need urgent repair
500 million
EU citizens live, work and play near freshwaters
has pioneered new water management policies
Before we can restore rivers and lakes, we have to understand how to assess and monitor their ecological health.
We have to understand how species respond to their environment as well as monitoring the impact of pressures, such as invasive species, river engineering and lake water levels which have often been overlooked in the past.
We also need to create solutions to the challenges of biomonitoring in densely populated river basins and diagnose why the health of water bodies is deteriorating in order to mend them.
We developed tools that are now used by UK agencies to determine freshwater status.
We designed the protocols used by the EU for harmonising national assessment methods, and defined nutrient targets required to improve the health of lakes and rivers.
These targets have been adopted across Europe.
This part of our research assesses restoration practices used in lakes and rivers.
We can recommend evidence-based actions suitable for the management plans required under the WFD.
One example is our review of lake restoration practices for the Broads Authority which shaped their future lake restoration strategy.
Once we understand the relationship between species and their environment, we can better predict how ecosystems will respond to alterations in the environment imposed by management and restoration.
For example, our research and advice on restoring polluted lakes and removing barriers to salmon migration is now being enacted and has been incorporated into management plans in the UK.
Part of our research is looking into the behaviour of an invasive plant , Himalayan balsam, on UK rivers; and how beavers are rewilding habitats on Tayside.
Our study reveals clues as to why the abundance of Himalayan balsam, a notorious invader of river banks, varies dramatically from place to place.
The work could help mitigate the impact of this pink-flowered plant, which outcompetes native species, causes shading and reduces the stability of riverbanks, enabling silt to enter the water.
In 2018, our research revealed how beaver-built ponds are far more biodiverse than other wetlands.
By cutting trees, beavers create a complex, mosaic of habitats that benefits local wildlife and improves ecosystem resilience.
Beaver dams can improve biodiversity, trap pollutants and reduce downstream flooding.
Beavers could therefore offer a solution to some of the environmental problems that society is going to face in the coming decades, especially with the effects of climate change.
But we have to be careful and weigh these benefits against the potential for occasional negative impacts on fisheries, forestry and farmland.
Nonetheless, this passive restoration approach is now seen as an important part of the rewilding and restoration debate.
See also: Beaver reintroduction key to solving freshwater biodiversity crisis
"Our research justified the thinking behind the reintroduction of beavers.
These are amazing ecosystem engineers who create unique habitats.
Put simply: anyone can build a pond – but if you want a really great pond, ask a beaver."
Stirling has hosted the Scottish Freshwater Group since 1968 and in 2018, we celebrated its centenary meeting.
The group promotes awareness of current issues and research related to the freshwater environment in Scotland.
It consists of around 350 members from universities, institutes, government and non-government agencies, industry and interested members of the public.
Our association with the Scottish Freshwater Group reflects our ongoing commitment to research in freshwater science - and our breadth of collaborations with external organisations and other researchers active in this field.
The impact of beaver dams on distribution of waterborne Escherichia coli and turbidity in an agricultural landscape
White HL, Fellows R, Woodford L, Ormsby MJ, van Biervliet O, Law A, Quilliam RS & Willby NJ (2025) The impact of beaver dams on distribution of waterborne Escherichia coli and turbidity in an agricultural landscape.
Science of The Total Environment, 968, p.
178871.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969725005066?ref=pdf_download&fr=RR-2&rr=93c79e2d1e0bb3ba
The Role of Non-Native Plant Species in Modulating Riverbank Erosion: A Systematic Review
Hardwick J, Hackney C, Keen L, Fitzsimmons C, Willby N & Pattison Z (2025) The Role of Non-Native Plant Species in Modulating Riverbank Erosion: A Systematic Review.
River Research and Applications.
https://doi.org/10.1002/rra.4420
Multi-pollutant removal dynamics by aquatic plants in monoculture or mixed communities
Fletcher J, Willby NJ, Oliver DM & Quilliam RS (2024) Multi-pollutant removal dynamics by aquatic plants in monoculture or mixed communities.
Environmental Research, 263 (1), Art.
No.: 120041.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2024.120041
Repeatable patterns in the distribution of freshwater biodiversity indicators across contrasting landscapes
Law A, Baker A, Sayer CD, Foster G, Gunn IDM, Macadam CR & Willby NJ (2024) Repeatable patterns in the distribution of freshwater biodiversity indicators across contrasting landscapes.
Landscape Ecology, 39 (11).
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10980-024-01992-z
Invertebrate responses to rewilding: a monitoring framework for practitioners
Cook P, Law A, Pattison Z, WallisDeVries MF & Willby NJ (2024) Invertebrate responses to rewilding: a monitoring framework for practitioners.
Restoration Ecology.
https://doi.org/10.1111/rec.14195
Optimising species detection probability and sampling effort in lake fish eDNA surveys
Sellers GS, Jerde CL, Harper LR, Benucci M, Di Muri C, Li J, Peirson G, Walsh K, Hatton-Ellis T, Duncan W, Duguid A, Ottewell D, Willby N, Law A & Bean CW (2024) Optimising species detection probability and sampling effort in lake fish eDNA surveys.
Metabarcoding and Metagenomics, 8, Art.
No.: e104655.
https://doi.org/10.3897/mbmg.8.104655

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/dementia-and-ageing-research:
Dementia affects approximately 50 million people worldwide, and is one of the major causes of disability and dependency among older people.
In the UK, around 850,000 people have dementia, with that number projected to rise to one million by 2025.
Dementia has a physical, psychological, social, and economic impact, not only on people with dementia, but also on their carers, families and society at large.
Against this backdrop, there is a high demand for evidence-led ideas that can enhance the lives of people with dementia and those who care for them.
The Centre for Environment, Dementia and Ageing Research at the University of Stirling carries out multidisciplinary, policy- and practice-relevant research that embraces the perspectives of people with dementia and those who support them.
The group brings together a vast mix of skills, from doctors and nurses to economists, psychologists, social workers and artists – all working towards a common goal of promoting better wellbeing and quality of life.
"Scotland has a reputation as a world leader in innovation and research and it is great to see the vital contribution by the University of Stirling to one of society's most pressing problems."
Our Dementia Services Development Centre (DSDC) helps to translate our research into policy-informing practice.
It houses a design and technology suite showcasing inspiring technology and equipment, a virtual care home that allows for visualisation of new ideas, and a conference centre which hosts regular international masterclasses bringing together dementia-care experts from around the world.
into ageing and dementia is enabling older people to live independent lives for longer
Innovative ideas
Our award-winning Iridis app facilitates the implementation of dementia design principles
UoS expertise
has been influential in informing telehealthcare delivery in Scotland and Europe
Our projects include the Iridis app, launched in 2017, in collaboration with Space Group.
The app is the first in a suite of technologies to assess and provide feedback on how suitable a residence, care facility or other environment is for older people, particularly those with dementia.
The app has been downloaded more than 1,000 times by users all over the world, and in 2018 it won the ‘Best Collaborative’ category the Blackwood Design Awards (BDA) – an international contest held to promote concepts and ideas that have the potential to change lives and help people with disabilities live life to the full.
Research conducted at the University has also been influential in informing telecare and telemedicine implementation in Scotland and throughout Europe.
Telehealthcare involves enhancing healthcare, public health and health education through the support and use of telecommunications technologies.
Professor Alison Bowes of the Faculty of Social Sciences evaluated a pioneering project commissioned by the Health Foundation to normalise the use of telecare in the homes of older people.
The project provided Smart equipment to everyone of retirement age in West Lothian Council (10,000 homes), and demonstrated a range of benefits – from showing the potential for large-scale roll-outs to the impact of telecare on reducing the stigma of needing support.
The work also provided the foundation for participation in an EU funded project with Norwegian and Danish partners, and led to our research being translated into the Model for Assessment of Telemedicine (MAST) manual.
The MAST manual – which helps health and social care providers make decisions about when, where and how to roll out telehealthcare to people with long-term conditions – was subsequently adopted by the British Thoracic Society, Recherche Clinique Santé Publique (Paris), the Basque Office for Health Technology Assessment and the Danish Regions in their Telemedicine Strategy.
Research conducted at the University has been influential in informing telecare and telemedicine implementation in Scotland and throughout Europe.
A new multi-million-pound intergenerational research centre at the University of Stirling will provide pioneering solutions to the challenges posed by an ageing global population.
The Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub will be established with £7.25 million of UK Government funding, secured as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal.
The Hub – which will include state-of-the-art facilities and a development zone – will bring together researchers, industry, healthcare providers, and the third sector to develop innovative ways for an ageing population to live, work and socialise.
Find out more about the Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub .
The King and Queen of Sweden paid a royal visit to the University of Stirling today to learn about its world-leading dementia research.
An innovative app which helps improve home environments for people living with dementia has won an international award for ‘best collaborative’ project.
Time for care: exploring time use by carers of older people Bowes A, Dawson A & Ashworth R (2019) Time for care: exploring time use by carers of older people (Forthcoming/Available Online).
Ageing and Society.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0144686X19000205
Designing Environments for People with Dementia: A Systematic Literature Review Bowes A & Dawson A (2019) Designing Environments for People with Dementia: A Systematic Literature Review (Forthcoming) .
Bingley: Emerald.
http://ebiz.turpin-distribution.com/products/373080-designing-environments-for-people-with-dementia-a-systematic-literature-review.aspx
Planning and design of ageing communities Phillips J (2018) Planning and design of ageing communities.
In: Skinner M, Andrews G & Cutchin M (eds.) Geographical Gerontology: Perspectives, Concepts, Approaches .
Routledge Studies in Human Geography.
London: Routledge, pp.
68-79.
https://www.routledge.com/Geographical-Gerontology-Perspectives-Concepts-Approaches/Skinner-Andrews-Cutchin/p/book/9781138241152
Down's syndrome and dementia Watchman K & Quinn S (2019) Down's syndrome and dementia.
In: Jackson G & Tolson D (eds.) Textbook of Dementia Care .
178-186.
https://www.crcpress.com/Textbook-of-Dementia-Care-An-Integrated-Approach/Jackson-Tolson/p/book/9781138229242
Issues with the Measurement of Informal Care in Social Surveys: Evidence from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing Rutherford AC & Bu F (2018) Issues with the Measurement of Informal Care in Social Surveys: Evidence from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing.
Ageing and Society , 38 (12), pp.
2541-2559.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0144686X17000757
Connectivity of older people in rural areas Hennessy, CH and Means, R.
(2018) Connectivity of older people in rural areas.
In: A.
Walker (ed.) The New Dynamics of Ageing , Bristol: The Policy Press, pp.147-166.
https://policy.bristoluniversitypress.co.uk/the-new-dynamics-of-ageing-volume-1
Epidemiology and outcomes of people with dementia, delirium, and unspecified cognitive impairment in the general hospital: prospective cohort study of 10,014 admissions Reynish, E.L., Hapca, S.M., De Souza, N., Cvoro, V., Donnan, P.T.
and Guthrie, B.
(2017) Epidemiology and outcomes of people with dementia, delirium, and unspecified cognitive impairment in the general hospital: prospective cohort study of 10,014 admissions.
BMC Medicine , 15 (140), DOI 10.1186/s12916-017-0899-0
Family meetings in inpatient specialist palliative care: a mechanism to convey empathy Forbat, L.
François, K., O’Callahan, L.
and Kulikowski, J.
(2018) Family meetings in inpatient specialist palliative care: A mechanism to convey empathy.
Journal of Pain and Symptom Management , 55 (5), pp.
1253-1259.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2018.01.020
Facilitating creativity in dementia care: the co-construction of arts-based engagement Robertson, J.
and McCall, V.
(2019) Facilitating creativity in dementia care: the co-construction of arts-based engagement.
Ageing & Society , DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0144686X18001575
The lived neighbourhood: understanding how people with dementia engage with their local environment Ward, R., Clark, A., Campbell, S., Graham, B., Kullberg, A., Manji, K., Rummery, K.
and Keady, J.
(2018) The lived neighbourhood: understanding how people with dementia engage with their local environment.
International Psychogeriatrics , 30 (6), pp.
867-880, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S1041610217000631
Scaffolding and working together: a qualitative exploration of strategies for everyday life with dementia McCabe, L., Robertson, J.
and Kelly, F.
(2018) Scaffolding and working together: a qualitative exploration of strategies for everyday life with dementia.
Age and Ageing , 47 (2), pp.
303–310, https://doi.org/10.1093/ageing/afx186
Person-centred assessment to integrate care for older people Philp I, Tugay K, Hildon Z, Aw S, Jeon Y, Naegle M, Michel J, Namara AA, Wang N & Hardman M (2017) Person-centred assessment to integrate care for older people.
In: Global Consultation on Integrated Care for Older People (ICOPE) – the path to universal health coverage.
Background Paper, 2.
Global Consultation on Integrated Care for Older People (ICOPE) – the path to universal health coverage, Berlin, Germany, 23.10.2017-25.10.2017.
Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organisation.
http://www.who.int/ageing/health-systems/icope/icope-consultation/en/ Philp I, Tugay K, Hildon Z, Aw S, Jeon Y, Naegle M, Michel J, Namara AA, Wang N & Hardman M (2017) Person-centred assessment to integrate care for older people.
In: Global Consultation on Integrated Care for Older People (ICOPE) – the path to universal health coverage .
Ward R, Clark A, Campbell S, Graham B, Kullberg A, Manji K, Rummery K & Keady J (2018) The lived neighbourhood: understanding how people with dementia engage with their local environment.
867-880.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S1041610217000631

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/navigating-hydration-separating-science-from-marketing-hype:
Water – the cornerstone of human vitality.
From regulating body temperature to facilitating digestion and maintaining cognitive function, its significance for overall health is indisputable.
While the longstanding NHS recommendation of eight glasses of water a day serves as a useful rule of thumb, individual hydration needs vary widely based on factors such as age, sex, activity levels, and environmental conditions.
But can we optimise our hydration strategies?
In the realm of health and wellness, hydration stands as a topic rife with misinformation and myth.
As consumers become increasingly health-conscious and seek new efficient and more effective hydration solutions to fit their busy lifestyles, the quest for clarity intensifies.
From the surge in social media trends like #WaterTok sharing sometimes questionable hydration tips, to the cult following of oversized hydration vessels like the Stanley Quencher cups, hydro hacks continue to gain momentum.
And with studies revealing that 83% of consumers are saying they want some functional benefits in their water, the global beverage industry is taking notice and responding.
Fortified with vitamins, minerals, acids, herbs and raw fruit or vegetables, functional water promises enhanced hydration and additional health benefits.
It also contains additives that claim to offer extra nutritional value, known as aquaceuticals and are often accompanied by promoting associated health benefits such as boosting your immune system, cognitive function, and gut health.
It's perhaps no surprise there has been a 10% growth in soft drink and sports nutrition launches with a hydration-related claim over the last three years alone.
The functional water market, valued at $15.93 billion in 2023 and projected to reach $30.10 billion by 2032, reflects consumers' growing demand for innovative hydration solutions.
Products like the fruit-based Dash Water, launched just seven years ago, is now the fastest growing drink in the UK, selling 24 million cans in 20 countries, as people seek out a hydrating and sugar-free alternative to traditional soft drinks.
However, amidst this boom, the narrative surrounding hydration has become obscured by marketing hype and conflicting messages.
While science underscores the importance of hydration, marketing claims often exaggerate benefits, promising everything from improved athletic performance to radiant skin.
This article aims to dissect some of the popular subcategories of the functional water market, separating myth from reality to empower consumers with evidence-based insights into optimal hydration practices.
The quest for clarity underpins a number of our PhD opportunities.
In recent years, electrolyte water has gained widespread popularity as a go-to beverage for replenishing essential minerals lost through sweat during exercise.
Regularly marketed as a superior alternative to plain water, electrolyte drinks promise to enhance hydration, boost athletic performance, and prevent dehydration-related issues.
But amidst the marketing hype surrounding electrolyte water, do these beverages truly live up to their claims?
Electrolytes are minerals that carry an electric charge and play a vital role in regulating various bodily functions, including muscle contractions, nerve impulses, and fluid balance.
Common electrolytes include sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and chloride, all of which are essential for maintaining proper hydration and supporting overall health.
Proponents of electrolyte water argue that these beverages offer a convenient way to replenish electrolytes lost through sweat during exercise, thereby preventing dehydration and improving performance.
If these drinks are more palatable and encourage individuals to drink more, they can effectively support hydration status.
However, electrolyte water and drinks often contain added sugars, flavourings, and other artificial ingredients purported to enhance taste and boost energy levels, further enticing consumers seeking a quick hydration fix.
Electrolytes and sugars aid in water transport from the intestine into the body’s water compartment and can help to retain the fluid for longer.
In some situations, this is beneficial such as prolonged activity in hot, humid environments or endurance sports.
However, the broader health claims associated with these beverages warrant closer scrutiny.
Research suggests that for most individuals engaging in moderate physical activity, plain water is sufficient for meeting hydration needs, and electrolyte supplementation may be unnecessary.
University of Stirling is one of the top rated universities in the world for Sport science – start you career here.
Critics of electrolyte water argue that the marketing claims surrounding these beverages often exaggerate their benefits and downplay potential drawbacks.
While electrolyte drinks may help prevent dehydration in specific circumstances and are not inherently harmful, their widespread consumption as a daily hydration solution may be unwarranted for most individuals.
The issue arises when people consume these drinks instead of water or when they are not exercising, potentially leading to unnecessary salt and sugar intake.
A great case in point is coconut water.
Despite its reputation as a natural hydrator, thanks to its electrolyte composition and high levels of potassium and sodium, commercial coconut water may not deliver as expected.
Recent research conducted by the University of Stirling reveals that the potassium levels found in popular and readily available coconut water products have little to no effect on the drinks' hydration potential.
Electrolyte water may offer benefits for athletes and individuals engaged in prolonged or intense exercise, but its broader health claims should be met with scepticism.
While electrolyte water and other electrolyte-enhanced drinks can help prevent dehydration and support athletic performance in specific scenarios, they are not a panacea for hydration and should not replace a varied intake of beverages as the primary source of fluid intake for most individuals.
Moderation with any fluid intake is recommended.
A balanced diet, including fruits, vegetables and a variety of beverages including plain water will help to meet your hydration and electrolyte needs naturally.
Very few people need to add salts to their existing diet.
A balanced diet, including fruits, vegetables and plain water will help to meet your hydration and electrolyte needs naturally.
In recent years, alkaline water, which has a pH above 7, has surged in popularity.
Touted by celebrities and wellness influencers as a miracle elixir capable of enhancing health and vitality, it’s often advertised benefits range from improved hydration to anti-ageing properties and even cancer prevention.
Alkaline water has captured the imagination of consumers seeking the next easy remedy for their health woes.
But amidst the fervour surrounding alkaline water, does it live up to the hype?
In reality, the scientific evidence does not support the need for choosing it over safe tap or regular bottled water.
The lungs, kidneys and liver effectively maintain the body's pH balance, ensuring blood pH stays slightly alkaline as needed for good health.
Thus, drinking alkaline water is unnecessary since these organs naturally regulate and balance the body's pH levels.
Read more from our experts about alkaline water, electrolyte water and vitamin-enhanced water on our hydration myth-buster blog .
In many industries, employees face time constraints that make it difficult to stay hydrated.
Nursing is a major area of study at the University of Stirling and therefore much time has been devoted to helping nurses excel in their role.
A dehydrated body can cause many problems, especially for those that are very active throughout shifts.
So what is the takeaway?
Well ultimately, there is no elixir of hydration.
Save your money and rather than succumbing to (often expensive) marketing gimmicks, try to focus on maintaining a balanced diet, staying hydrated with regular water – tap or filter is fine - and engaging in regular physical activity to support your overall health and wellbeing.
In the realm of hydration, simplicity often reigns supreme, and the quest for optimal health begins with informed decision-making based on scientific evidence.
The content of this article is provided for general information only.
Always obtain healthcare advice from a registered professional.
Visit NHS inform for more information .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/tackling-depression-suicide-and-other-psychiatric-emergencies:
Suicide and depression have the power to decimate lives, break apart families and have a negative ripple effect on wider communities.
Every year, more than one million people across the globe take their own life – and depression is by far the most common risk factor.
Our research here at the University of Stirling seeks to explore new ways in which free prevention services can create positive outcomes and new care pathways for patients in Scotland, Europe and beyond.
People who die by suicide do often contact healthcare services in the year before their death.
That's why training programmes for improving the capacity of healthcare professionals and those working in community settings to detect, signpost to services, or treat depression and manage suicide risk, are some of the leading evidence-based strategies in the field of suicide prevention.
Unfortunately, a lack of capacity for referral or signposting to services or other forms of help for individuals – especially in lower income countries – makes the need for other (free) treatment or self- help options imperative.
The University has been a key European partner in a study, entitled “Preventing Depression and Improving Awareness through Networking in the EU (PREDI-NU)” which was designed to develop and implement free evidence-based resources for both professionals as well as the public – supplemented by online therapy for people experiencing depression.
This online therapy is delivered via the website “ ifightdepression.com ”.
Our research was used to create online therapy resources for the "iFightDepression" website, which has attracted over 6 million users since it launched.
helped create an EU-wide website for professionals and the public designed to combat depression
6 million+
people have visited the iFightDepression website, with 4.7 million using it to initiate self-management
Stirling experts
co-developed the Scottish Government’s award-winning new Distress Brief Intervention programme
Through the iFightDepression website, researchers were able to raise awareness of depression and suicidal behaviour and provide a self-help psychological intervention for people with depression  founded on research.
Analytics show the website attracted more than 6.3 million unique visitors across all languages.
More than 4.7 million of those visitors used the site’s ‘self-test’ questionnaire that allows them to start a programme of self-management.
What’s more, a surge in visitors during the COVID-19 pandemic suggests that the website may have been a valuable resource when in-person treatments were more difficult to access.
GPs were able to use the website to directly help patients, and psychotherapists reported that the tool enabled a reduction in the number of therapeutic sessions needed for patients.
The ease of accessibility and the fact that the website is free were also highlighted as major advantages for patients unable to afford counselling and for those who had inhibitions about accessing help through traditional treatment pathways.
General Practitioners, psychotherapists and members of the public all use the "iFightDepression" website, with a surge of visitors accessing the resource during the COVID-19 pandemic.
To improve care for people who present to healthcare as psychiatric emergencies in Scotland, our researchers have used record linkage techniques through multiple studies to better understand these psychiatric emergencies (including those at risk of suicide) and improve their care pathways.
One study linked data relating to Scottish Ambulance Service (SAS) psychiatric emergencies and self-harm with Emergency Department (ED) data, and Acute & Mental Health episode and deaths data, following individuals for at least 12 months.
It found more than half of the people (62%) attended by the SAS were either left at home (11%) or discharged from ED with no known follow-up (51%).
Within 12 months of their emergency call, 279 of the 6,802 callers had died – with 35% recorded as suicide.
Our research included a stakeholder workshop which revealed that 93% perceived the study findings to be ‘very useful’ or ‘quite useful’ in understanding the patient population – and nine out of ten found the data to useful in developing evidence-informed alternative care pathways.
Building on this, our team were invited by the Scottish Government to join a working group to further apply this data to the ‘Enhanced Mental Health Pathways’ project.
Further analysis went on to reveal that mental health related journeys in the out-of-hours period represented four times as many journeys through NHS 24 than indicated by standard analyses and were responsible for 27% of all ambulance journeys.
These journeys also resulted in longer waiting times in A&E – and according to our research, could have ultimately been resolved by telephone contact in around 60% of cases.
This analysis led to Government investment of £2 million for the ‘Enhanced Mental Health Pathways’ project to support dedicated mental health nurses being recruited to staff NHS24’s 111 service to provide front line patient care.
Calls to the 111 service made by people in distress are now diverted to these dedicated staff, where calls are triaged, care provided or escalated as necessary.
This mental health service is therefore dealing with an estimated approximate 100,000 calls per year benefitting many thousands of people across Scotland.
Our research with NHS24 led to Government investment of £2 million for the ‘Enhanced Mental Health Pathways’ project to support dedicated mental health nurses being recruited to staff NHS24’s 111 service to provide front line patient care.
Based on these ‘best practice’ models of community-based training to support awareness raising, detection and onward referral or signposting for people experiencing depression, mental distress or suicide risk, Professor Margaret Maxwell was then a partner in the co-development of the Distress Brief Intervention (DBI) on behalf of NHS Scotland and Scottish Government to provide a rapid response to those experiencing distress.
The DBI service (delivered by Third sector organisations) offers next day contact with a distress worker to anyone presenting in distress to A&E, police, ambulance services or primary care.
The programme has since been awarded £3.4 million in funding from the Scottish Government – and since going live in 2017, four pilot sites across Scotland have helped more than 13,000 people.
The impact of DBI was recognised by its receipt of a Scottish Health Award in 2019.
Professor Margaret Maxwell was responsible for the co-development of the Distress Brief Intervention on behalf of NHS Scotland and the Scottish Government to provide a rapid response to those experiencing distress.
Other members of staff involved in the research outlined above include Dr Fiona Harris; Dr Edward Duncan ; Dr Catherine Best ; Dr Josie Evans; and Dr David Fitzpatrick.
Experts will explore the best interventions to help support the mental health and wellbeing of Scotland’s farming and crofting communities, as part of a new study.
The needs of suicidal children are at risk of being overlooked due to gaps in policy and inconsistencies in how the issue is approached globally, according to experts.
A review involving experts from the University of Stirling has suggested new ways in which big data could enhance the diagnosis and treatment of mental health conditions.
iFightDepression website, https://ifightdepression.com
Arensman et al.
(2015) Depression awareness and self-management through the internet: An internationally standardised approach.
JMIR Res Protoc 4(3):e99.
DOI: 10.2196/resprot.4358.
Duncan EAS, Best C, Dougall N, Skar S, Evans J, Corfield AR, Fitzpatrick D, Goldie I, Maxwell M, Snooks H, Stark C, White C and Wojcik W.
Epidemiology of emergency ambulance service calls related to mental health problems and self-harm: a national record linkage study.
Scandinavian Journal of Trauma, Resuscitation and Emergency Medicine (2019) 27:34 https://doi.org/10.1186/s13049-019-0611-9
DBI Programme Manager’s Six Monthly Report October 19 – March 20 Issue 7 (July 2020), p.5.
https://www.dbi.scot/resources/progress-reports/

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre:
Scotland’s International Environment Centre (SIEC) is a pioneering collaboration that will create an ‘innovation community’ in the Forth Valley, driving the creation of a net zero regional economy and acting as a global exemplar of low-carbon growth.
Through innovation and partnership, the Environment Centre will deliver transformational change in sustainable business practice, positioning the protection and enhancement of our natural resources as an enabler of economic prosperity, wellbeing, and a just transition to a net zero future.
Established as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, the Environment Centre is funded through an investment of £17m from the Scottish Government and £5m from the UK Government, with additional funding leveraged through private and match-funded investment.
The investment builds on the University’s global reputation for environmental science, and the Forth Valley’s established status as a hub for environmental and conservation activity in Scotland.
The Environment Centre brings together a broad spectrum of academic researchers, talented students and external partners from industry, government, and regional stakeholders, including communities and the third sector.
In doing so, it acts as the enabler for new methods of collaboration across sectors to re-imagine innovation and deliver sustainable inclusive growth.
Through a range of targeted, integrated, and high-profile projects, the Environment Centre will co-develop innovative and disruptive products and services, offering agile solutions that will help tackle and mitigate the inevitable impacts of climate change, support the transition to a net zero economy, and protect our natural environmental assets.
Forth-ERA will enable a regional living laboratory across the Forth Valley, helping businesses to adopt more sustainable practices, supporting effective policy and regulation, and building community resilience to climate change.
Young Pathfinders is an extracurricular educational outreach programme, which seeks to support and empower young people from Stirling and Clackmannanshire through developing a range of creative and problem-solving skills in response to the challenges presented by climate change.
This initiative is funded by Scottish Water in partnership with the Scottish Funding Council.
The Hydro Nation Chair is a catalyst for academic research and innovation specifically to support the Scottish water sector in delivering and going beyond net zero whilst delivering service excellence and offering great value and financial sustainability.
forestLAB is a new research hub created to explore climate-smart, conservation-led solutions for sustainable development in central Africa.
The project will provide policymakers, investors and development practitioners with the data and tools required to create world-class models of natural ecosystems management that are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
The Forth Climate Forest will plant around 16.4 million new trees planted across 8,300 hectares within the next 10 years.
The forest will benefit 306,000 people in Forth Valley communities by planting trees in school grounds, on vacant and derelict land and across parks.
The Scotland 5G Centre (S5GC) is the national centre for accelerating the deployment and adoption of 5G connectivity in Scotland’s industry and public sectors.
If your organisation or business has operations in Stirling, we can help you reduce your carbon impact with a net zero plan.
The Forth Valley Connectivity Commission will consider how enhanced transport and connectivity can support the region’s transition to Net Zero.
Developing Optimal and Open Research Support for the Black Sea (DOORS) is a major, multi-partner research and innovation programme, delivered by the University of Stirling as part of the international work of SIEC.
DOORS brings together science, policy, and industry for critical Black Sea regeneration, addressing the human and climate change impacts on damaged ecosystems.
100 industry partnerships
125 new regional jobs
Supporting 200 start-ups
Working with 300 low carbon SMEs
Delivering a skills portfolio supporting 8669 individuals
Putting £114 million into the region

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-reputation:
Since our founding in 1967, the University of Stirling has always been driven by transformative thinking and a spirit of innovation.
Our mission is to do everything we can to give our students the knowledge and expertise to make their impact in the world.
Everything we do makes a positive difference to people's lives.
We are an agent for change, connecting people, innovating and transforming the lives of our students, staff and the global communities we serve.
We have a constant desire to innovate and improve in order to make a difference to society.
It’s how we’ve earned our global reputation for high-quality teaching and internationally acclaimed research.
From feeding the world to using psychology to catch criminals, we want to tackle the global issues of our time.
Our multi-disciplinary researchers challenge assumptions, innovate thinking and find solutions.
Our research themes are:
We’re proud of the way we prepare our students with life-long careers and employability skills.
It’s why 96% of our graduates were in employment or further study 15 months after graduation ( Graduate Outcomes 2020-21, HESA ).
Our students love the way we teach.
As part of the QS Stars University Ratings 2024, the University of Stirling was awarded 5 stars in the areas of teaching, employability, global engagement, research, facilities and environmental impact.
We have a 95% student satisfaction rate with subject area expertise shown by staff (International Student Barometer 2024).
Students are at the heart of everything we do, and we aim to provide one of the best all-round student experiences in the UK.
Stirling is a beautiful, historic city with easy access to beautiful, wild landscapes and outdoor activities.
We also enjoy fast transport links to Glasgow and Edinburgh.
Find out more about the city of Stirling .
From producing Olympians to teaching children to swim, we live and breathe sport.
We’re Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence, a designation by the Scottish Government in recognition of our contribution to Scottish sport and for training Scottish athletes to successfully compete at international sporting events such as the Olympic Games and the Walker Cup.
The Institute of Aquaculture was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019.
Our stunning campus, with its castle and loch enjoys views of the foothills of the Scottish Highlands.
Our campus enjoys a vibrant and friendly atmosphere – we're 1st in the UK and top 10 in the world for campus environment (International Student Barometer (ISB) 2024).
Stirling is an international university that welcomes the world with proud Scottish hospitality.
Thinking and working globally is part of our daily teaching and research practice.
We’ve partnerships with over 70 universities worldwide while the contribution from our international students and staff from all over the world is crucial to our continued success and global outlook.
We offer our students experiences of a lifetime through our Study Abroad programme and we prepare our students to thrive as global citizens in an increasingly connected world.
The University of Stirling is proud to hold an institutional Athena Swan Silver award, recognising our commitment to advancing gender equality across the university.
You can read more about our Athena Swan Silver Award here .
Our facts and figures
See how we're recognised across the globe for excellence in teaching, research and student experience

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-history:
Since its founding in 1967 the University of Stirling has been helping its graduates, staff and students to shape the world.
Our history begins with a visionary who recognised that society was being transformed and it needed people skilled in navigating change.
Lord Robbins, our first Chancellor, was an economist who changed the face of British higher education.
He understood the importance of a skilled workforce to the future wealth and wellbeing of society.
For Robbins it was all about ‘education with a purpose’ and his Robbins principle declared that university places ' should be available to all who were qualified for them by ability and attainment' .
The Robbins Report widened access to higher education, and since then the University of Stirling has been delivering the progressive vision and transformative thinking he first articulated in the 1960s.
On 18 September 1967, 164 undergraduate students and 31 postgraduates began their courses at the new Pathfoot Building.
Since then we’ve grown to over 17,500 students globally from 140+ nationalities and we have more than 110,000 alumni in 180 countries.
We’re distinct for the way we built our teaching on flexibility, choice and innovation.
Our key research innovates in the fields of:
The University is now organised into five faculties:
In addition the Institute for Advanced Studies supports our thriving postgraduate community.
We also have a number of internationally respected institutes and centres covering a broad range of subjects.
We have degree course partnerships in China with Hebei Normal University and in Singapore with Singapore Institute of Management.
Our campus is located on the edge of the bustling city of Stirling, close to Glasgow and Edinburgh.
We’re situated on the site of the historic Airthrey estate which includes the Robert Adam-designed 18th century Airthrey Castle.
In 2016 our campus was rated first in the UK by International Student Barometer.
You can read more about the history of Airthrey on the Art Collection's Culture on Campus blog .
In 2002, the University of Stirling and the landscape of the Airthrey Estate was designated by the International Council on Monuments and Sites as one of the UK's top 20 heritage sites of the 20th century.
In 2017 we celebrated our 50 th anniversary.
We’re not resting on our achievements.
We have ambitious plans for the future as we look to build on our research profile and international standing to become one of the top 25 universities in the UK.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people:
17000 students
6000 postgraduate students
1700 members of staff
30 % of our students from overseas
100000 alumni in 180 countries
Our staff guide and inspire our students to become graduates with the knowledge and skills to help shape the world.
The University Court is the governing body of the University.
The Rt Hon Lord Jack McConnell served as First Minister of Scotland between 2001 and 2007.
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac became Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of Stirling in May 2010.
The team consists of External Officers, the Senior Management Team, Deans of Faculty , Service Directors and Deans.
Our students are the lifeblood of the University, and we thrive on their success in achieving great things in a global society.
Honorary appointments are awarded to recognise an agreed contribution to teaching and research or input through professional standing, in the interests of the University.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/forth2o:
FORTH2O is a ground-breaking partnership for the Forth Water Basin.
We are aiming to optimise water resources for people and nature.
It is one of four £5m local policy innovation partnerships in the UK.
It's the only one in Scotland and covers Fife, Clackmannanshire, Stirling, Falkirk, Edinburgh and the Lothians.
Find out more on the FORTH2O website .
Water resources provide essential goods and services that are vital to the health of our economy, society and the environment.
Harnessing these productively and sustainably is a key route to optimising growth, value and community outcomes, as well as meeting future challenges of climate and demographic change.
FORTH2O will strengthen local capacity for innovation through its powerful scientific evidence base and enabling network of water decision-makers.
The Partnership is at once a policy network, a learning community, and a direct actor in the water system - able to challenge the conditions that currently get in the way of positive action.
The FORTH2O Partnership aims to:
The FORTH2O Partnership is a dynamic and forward-thinking network, dedicated to reshaping the way we engage with water.
At once a policy network, a learning community, and a direct actor in the water system, we bring together diverse voices and perspectives to explore bold 'what if' questions.
As an open and generative space, we strive to optimise outcomes for places, businesses, communities, and individuals by viewing water through a holistic lens—understanding its complexities and interconnections.
Our mission is to foster a series of connected actions and activities that not only help us understand water better, but also inspire innovative ways to live and work with it.
By harnessing our convening power, we create collaborative spaces where diverse interests align, policy is influenced, and systemic innovation flourishes on a scale that benefits everyone.
The Partnership will achieve its aims by co-producing solutions to four main challenges in the Forth Valley that have been identified during the first engagement phase of the project.
These foundational challenges are:
Partner organisations
90+
Academics
23
Project value
£5 million
Commissioning fund
£1 million
We will work with partners to innovate and bring together creative and productive combinations and solutions that demonstrate the power of the Partnership to innovate, and to achieve things that no single Partner could achieve on their own.
We will collaborate along four main challenge areas:
We will also run a suite of Living Labs, a Commissioning Fund to spark new collaborations, initiatives and interventions, and potential ‘special projects’ we can facilitate in our region.
Find out more about our work on the FORTH2O website .
Contact Dr Kathleen Stosch

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
The climate and ecological crisis is the most important challenge of our times which is why we're committed to embedding sustainability at the core of everything we do.
There's no other choice.
Net zero by 2040
Reduce waste by 50% by 2030
We don't invest in fossil fuels
Just transition for local economy
Our work in sustainability is based on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals .
Find out about our commitments to protecting our environment, reducing our carbon emissions and developing solutions for climate justice.
We all have a part to play.
Find out how you can get involved in sustainability and make a difference.
University research facility delivers multi-million pound boost to local economy
Contact us and our staff
Find out about our staff working on sustainability and how to contact us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/city-region-deal:
The Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal is a £214 million investment in the future of the region, unlocking potential to drive economic growth, productivity and prosperity.
An investment of £90.2 million from the UK and Scottish Governments will be matched by up to £123.8 million from regional partners.
This initial funding has potential to leverage additional private investment in excess of £640 million over the next 10 to 15 years, delivering more than 5,000 new jobs across a range of sectors.
Research and innovation is central to achieving this vision.
Working closely with partners, the University can understand the challenges businesses are facing and pioneer new solutions, creating high-value jobs and supporting greater productivity.
The City Region Deal provides an investment package of more than £46 million in University-led research.
A £17 million investment from the UK Government will build on the University’s internationally-renowned Institute of Aquaculture to develop a National Aquaculture Technology and Innovation Hub, reinforcing the UK’s position at the forefront of this expanding sector.
As the world seeks out cleaner, greener ways of working, Scotland’s International Environment Centre, funded through £22 million from Scottish Government and £5 million from the UK Government, will create a global exemplar of sustainable and inclusive models of growth.
A further £7.25 million of UK Government investment will be established as an Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub, building on the University’s global reputation for ageing and dementia research.
This investment in world-class research infrastructure will enable University of Stirling researchers to further tackle some of the world’s most pressing problems, building on an established track record and placing innovation at the heart of a coordinated drive for sustainable, inclusive growth.
Translating the University’s pioneering aquaculture research into jobs, skills and investment while supporting global food security.
Provide a global exemplar of a just transition to net zero models of living and working.
Transforming the narrative around ageing from one of challenge to one of opportunity.
£90.2 million
from UK and Scottish Governments
£123.8 million
from regional partners
£640 million
potential private investment
5,000
potential new jobs
The key to successful innovation is collaboration.
The Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal offers an unprecedented opportunity for businesses, researchers and innovators to work strategically to unlock productivity, and inclusive, sustainable growth.
Working in partnership, we can take advantage of global opportunities to deliver economic and social benefits at local, national and international levels.
If you’d like to know more about the University's projects within the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, please contact Linsey Dickson, Acting Executive Director of Research, Innovation and Business Engagement.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/publications:
The following are key documents that the University publishes both for internal and external audiences.
Download a prospectus Download one of our prospectuses to find out everything you need to know about undergraduate and postgraduate (taught and research) courses.
At a Glance The University's key facts and figures in one easy to digest place.
Annual Review Learn more about some of the year’s highlights and a glimpse of key achievements.
Strategic Plan Find out more about the University's vision, values and purpose.
Campus Masterplan The University of Stirling Campus Masterplan 2012 provides a compelling strategic vision, central to the University’s ethos of innovation, excellence and commitment to serving the needs of society.
Diversity and equality Key University publications about diversity and equality of opportunity.
Fair Work Statement Ensuring fair working practices are in place in support of ‘Fair Work First’.
Financial Statements Our latest financial regulations statement.
Freedom of Information Other documents are available through the University's scheme.
Sport Impact Report As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, our mission is to deliver the best for Scottish sport through the powerful and inspirational combination of sport and education.
Stirling Minds The University's magazine for staff and alumni.
You can also view previous copies.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection:
The Pathfoot Building is open Monday to Friday, 09:00 to 17:00.
Find out what’s on , search our collections online and read about our collections on our blog .
To contact us email art.collection@stir.ac.uk .
We believe that a creative environment stimulates creative thinking and can inspire a whole community.
We work to make knowledge visible.
Our focus is to make art and culture a part of everyday life for staff, students and visitors, enabling exchanges between art, research and teaching.
We do this through an active programme of events that improves access to art and inspires people to engage with it.
People tell us it enriches their lives.
The tours, workshops, exhibitions and lectures attract visitors to the campus and deepen our links with the wider community.
The Art Collection welcomes everyone into a creative environment, where creative thinking and creative acts are at the heart of our identity as a place of learning.
Find out more about the events, lectures and exhibitions taking place at the Art Collection.
Our opening times, general information and getting here.
Find out more about our collection, recent acquisitions and Ferguson at Stirling.
You can also explore our artists.
Explore our online art and archive collections and see what you might discover.
The Art Collection offers a large variety of ways in which you can learn about and engage with our collections.
Use #cultureonstircampus to share your campus culture.
Read more about all the cultural treasures on our campus.
The Art Collection and the Pathfoot Galleries are fully accredited by Museums Galleries Scotland.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/psychology-kindergarten:
Welcome to the University of Stirling Psychology Kindergarten which offers childcare for children aged between 2 years 9 months and 5 years old.
We welcome all children, including those of staff and students at the University and from the wider community.
We have an excellent reputation as a small, caring and nurturing provider of quality childcare.
Our kindergarten provides a safe, home-from-home setting, with the needs of the children and their parents and guardians being addressed with care, sensitivity and flexibility at all times.
Enrolment is open for registering your child with us.
Please email psychologykindergarten@stir.ac.uk for further information on how to enrol for your child's funded or unfunded place.
We are a par tner provider with Stirling Council which allows funded places for children from three to five years old.
Find out your child's entitlement to funding .
Our Kindergarten offers quality childcare and early education for children from 2 years 9 months up to 5 years of age.
Find out more about our values, our team of staff and fees and funding arrangements.
We have our main playroom, and we also benefit from the extensive grounds on the University campus.
Our outdoor classroom offers a great area for children to play, explore and connect to nature.
Psychology researchers at the University conduct innovative and world-leading child development research and teaching.
We help support this research using a variety of approaches with our researchers and children, ranging from observational studies and free-play paradigms.
When you register your child, you can decide whether or not you are happy for your child to participate in our research activities.
As well as being graded ‘excellent’ by the Care Inspectorate for our quality of care and support, you can hear what parents and guardians think about the kindergarten, and the children talk about what they enjoy the most each day.
We accept applications all year round.
See how to apply .
View our location and get directions to the kindergarten .
If you have any questions about the kindergarten and the childcare provided please just get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities:
Our 330-acre campus isn't just a gorgeous place to call home.
With an Olympic-sized swimming pool, on-site cinema and more than a dozen restaurants, bars and delis, it’s easy to see why we’ve earned a five-star rating for our facilities in the latest QS Stars University Ratings.
Check out everything the campus has to offer and discover the world of opportunities Stirling students enjoy right on their doorstep.
Campus Central is at the heart of life on campus, and offers shops, cafés and more.
Enjoy a tennis centre, 50m swimming pool and fitness suite on campus.
Our library offers over half-a-million books and plenty of room for research and study.
Our on-campus cinema and theatre brings you non-stop movies, stage shows and more.
Start exploring with our virtual tour and check out the campus facilities for yourself.
It’s easy to get around campus, with all the facilities no more than a ten-minute walk apart.
Use our campus map to pinpoint the location of restaurants, residences and more.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/support-wellbeing:
The Student Services Hub brings lots of services together to help you resolve a whole range of queries through a single point of contact, easily access the services you need, and thrive during your time at the University of Stirling.
We can help you with questions on all of the services listed below, and you can get in touch with us by calling, emailing or visiting the Student Services Hub in Campus Central.
Chat to us: Live Chat via your portal Monday: 9.00 - 16.30 Tuesday 10.00 - 16.30 Wednesday to Friday: 9.00 - 16.30 Saturday and Sunday: closed on weekends until September 2025
Call us: 01786 466022 Monday: 9.00 - 16.00 Tuesday: 10.00 - 16.00 Wednesday to Friday: 9.00 - 16.00 Saturday and Sunday: closed on weekends until September 2025
Meet with us: in the Student Services Hub, Campus Central Monday: 9.00 - 16.30 Tuesday: 10.00 - 16.30 Wednesday to Friday: 9.00 - 16.30 Saturday and Sunday: closed on weekends until September 2025
To request a face-to-face enquiry with a Hub Assistant please come to the Hub on the ground floor of Campus Central and scan the QR code to join our queue.
A Hub Assistant will call you forward to have a chat when they are available.
Email us: ask@stir.ac.uk .
If you're a current student, please contact us from your University email account or include your student ID if you're emailing from a personal address.
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact the University of Stirling via contact SCOTLAND-BSL, the online British Sign Language video relay interpreting service.
Find out more on the contactSCOTLAND website.
Monday: 9.00 - 16.30 Tuesday: 10.00 - 16.30 Wednesday to Friday: 9.00 - 16.30 Saturday and Sunday: closed on weekends until September 2025
Find out where you can get support at any time.
Support for mental health and wellbeing
Accessibility and Inclusion support
Support for my money issues
Spiritual support at university
LGBT+ student support contacts
Support relating to sexual and gender based violence
If you think you have been spiked
Studying at university
Making a payment to the University
Academic Registry for students
Study abroad and exchange
Visas and immigration advice
Careers information and guidance
Free period products
Staff supporting students
Support for estranged students and student carers
Support for care experienced students
See the latest updates and information from the Student Services Hub and other University services by following Student Services on X.
Our front desks are screened for your privacy but we understand if you'd like to speak somewhere more confidential.
We have a private room within the Hub for any conversations you don't want to have within the main space.
Just let the Student Hub Assistant or the Welcome Assistant know when you arrive and we'll be happy to move to a more private space.
Although our skilled Student Hub Assistants are able to answer many of your questions, we also have a team of specialist advisers supporting us, including staff with experience in mental health, money advice, disability services, careers advice, immigration advice or academic/fees/programmes enquiries.
If we can't respond to your enquiry right away, we'll refer you to the right person and will make sure you know what the next steps will be.
The Student Services Hub staff are all part of the Student Support Services team, which is part of Student, Academic and Corporate Services.
They take your confidentiality very seriously.
To find out more about how we protect and use your personal data, please read our confidentiality and data sharing statement .
We can only accept paper documents during our working hours, outside of these please either upload documents via your Portal using the “Upload a Student Services Document” option within the “I want to..” section or alternatively email them directly to ask@stir.ac.uk .
If visiting the Student Services Hub to hand in a document, you may not need to speak with a Student Hub Assistant.
Please speak to our Welcome Assistants who will advise.
Should this not be an option for you please contact the Student Services Hub team for advice.
The Student Services Hub is not an emergency service.
If you are having an emergency, you should contact the emergency services immediately on 999.
You can also check our out-of-hours and emergency support here .
If you are in crisis and think that you might be at risk of harm, you should contact your GP or an organisation such as Samaritans .
If you believe someone else is at risk of harm, you should call the Police on 999 immediately.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling:
We're proud to call Stirling our home.
It's a city shaped by a unique history, a lively arts scene and the beauty of the Ochil Hills.
Also known as the 'Gateway to the Highlands', Stirling is the perfect place to study.
It combines the charm of a historic city with the buzz of a young community.
20% of Stirling's 100,000 people are between 16 and 29 years old (National Records of Scotland 2016).
And two of Scotland's main cities - Edinburgh and Glasgow - are around 50 minutes away, perfect for fun weekend adventures.
The bustling city of Stirling combines cosmopolitan city life with the tranquillity of rolling hills and the Scottish countryside.
When you come to Stirling, you may never want to leave.
The Stirling XP app lets you explore the city in a unique and exciting way through your smartphone screen.
Get live directions to your destination, interact with the 3D map to get information on the buildings and points of interest around you, and uncover the history of Stirling using the History Trail.
Find out more and download the Stirling XP app .
The safest student city in Scotland and the UK
Happiest place to live in Scotland
Scotland's best city for culture
Stirling is a thriving cultural hub with galleries, theatres and more.
Get a taste of Stirling's foodie delights.
Once a former capital of Scotland, Stirling is steeped in history.
Discover the city of Stirling's lively music and nightlife scene.
Explore the breathtaking scenery of Stirling and beyond.
From quirky independent shops to big brands, Stirling has it all.
Stirling is a dream destination for sports fans.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/explore-scotland:
Millions of visitors come to Scotland each year to explore its vibrant cities, historic landmarks and breathtaking scenery – and Stirling’s unique central location makes it the perfect starting point for your own adventures.
Wherever your travels in Scotland lead you, there’s always something new to experience.
As the home of golf and whisky, the birthplace of television, and a leader in renewable energy, Scotland has always been a hub of creativity and diversity.
Whether you’re speeding down white-knuckle mountain bike trails or walking in the footsteps of pioneering authors and artists, you’ll find something worth writing home about around every corner.
Scotland’s two biggest cities can both be reached in under an hour from Stirling, opening the door to countless new culinary, shopping and cultural possibilities.
Find out why National Geographic included Glasgow on its 2016 Best of the World list, and why ticket sales for Edinburgh’s famous festival are third only to the Olympics and World Cup.
From 12 th Century castles to world-class concert arenas, Edinburgh and Glasgow have it all.
Known as the ‘Gateway to the Highlands’, Stirling is an ideal starting point for your journey into Scotland’s legendary landscapes.
Venture to the endless white beaches of the west coast, conquer the UK’s highest peaks, or soak in the beauty of more than 30,000 freshwater lochs.
Beyond its cinematic panoramas, Scotland’s countryside and coastline is full of surprises, playing host to wild dolphins, architectural wonders and traces of ancient civilizations.
The Scots invented golf, curling and cycling, and have had a major impact on the development of rugby, hockey and football.
From the 2016 Rio Olympic Games medal haul, to hosting the 2018 European Championships, Scotland is a haven for sporting success.
With world-class facilities, strong community links and our great outdoors just waiting for you, why not take up a new sport or outdoor activity when you’re here.
Scotland is renowned for its unique cuisine and internationally acclaimed whisky.
The country boasts an incredible culinary tradition and has ten Michelin-starred restaurants.
No Scottish experience is complete without a hearty serving of haggis, neeps and tatties, and many of the world’s top whisky distilleries are found in the local countryside and neighbouring Highlands.
If you’re into food and drink, Scotland has plenty to offer.
Explore Scotland for less.
Young people under 22 who live in Scotland are entitled to free nationwide bus travel.
Go to the VisitScotland website to find out more about what Scotland has to offer.
Read about our award-winning campus environment and lively student community.
We’re proud to call Stirling our home, and we think you will be too.
Find out what makes the city and surrounding area special.
You'll find plenty of student-friendly food and drink venues throughout the city of Stirling and surrounding area.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/students-union/clubs-societies:
Sharing your passions, trying new things and making friends for life have always been at the heart of the uni experience, and the University of Stirling is the perfect place to do all three.
No matter what you’re into, our 120+ societies and sports clubs are bound to offer something that piques your interest – from athletics to anime, volleyball to video games.
And don't worry, if you can’t see a society or sports club that takes your fancy, we're happy to support you in starting your own.
See all of our societies and sports clubs on the Students' Union website.
A-Z of societies
A-Z of sports clubs
Show your true colours with a range of University of Stirling merchandise.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories:
Find out what life is really like at the University of Stirling from our students and graduates.
Hear about their student experience and discover how they’ve grown both personally and professionally to prepare for a successful future.
We’re recognised for our stunning campus, quality teaching and friendly multi-cultural community.
University opens up opportunities to reach your full potential.
Don’t just take our word for it, our students have stories worth hearing.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories/simron-kandola:
BA (Hons) Human Resource Management and Law
England
Stirling has really helped me develop as a person and the journey has been an once-in-a-lifetime experience.
I’m going to really miss the University – the four years I have spent here will always be a part of my life.
The University of Stirling Management School’s Simron Kandola has earned a degree just months after being named Student of the Year at the National Union of Students (NUS) Scotland Awards 2017, in recognition of his exceptional volunteering, community and mentoring work.
The 25-year-old graduate recalled how receiving the accolade, in honour of his invaluable contribution to the University and Students’ Union, was a truly memorable moment.
Simron said: “My passion is in volunteering and being able to proactively help other students and the local community.
It was fantastic to be recognised by NUS Scotland for this work.
It shows just how valued students are at the University, and how each person’s individual contributions within the Stirling Students’ Union, and within the local community, can make such a massive difference.
“It felt like such a huge achievement – and a surprise.
It is the diversity and range of volunteering work that I have done, as well as the positive difference that I have made, that ultimately helped me win the award.”
The Co-founder of four new Stirling Students’ Union societies, including the University of Stirling Volunteering Society and the Barnardo’s Society, Simron dedicated much of his time at University to helping students, local charities and communities.
As a result of his work with Barnardo’s, Simron was invited to celebrate the charity’s 150th anniversary at a special Royal Garden Party at Buckingham Palace, hosted by the Duchess of Cornwall.
Through the Volunteering Society, Simron helped raise more than £3000 for local charities, and helped donate around 4000 food donations to the local food bank charity, Start-Up Stirling, which has supported approximately 2100 families.
Simron also volunteered with Oxfam as a Shop Assistant, was Treasurer of the TEDx Society – helping to re-launch TEDxUniversityofStirling – and gained experience through a number of part-time roles, including Student Ambassador at the University and the Scottish Institute for Enterprise.
He was an active volunteer within the Union’s Freshers Team, co-organised a University of Stirling Symposium networking event and worked as a STEER Mentor and Intern within the Student Peer Support Scheme, mentoring first-year students and taking on the administrative running of the programme during his fourth year.
As well as picking up the award for Student of the Year, Simron won the award for the Biggest Contribution to the Student Body at the Stirling Students’ Union Clubs and Societies Ball in 2017, was shortlisted for the Student Volunteer of the Year Award by NUS UK and Student Hubs UK, and made the Enterprise Rent-A-Car shortlist for Management Undergraduate of the Year Award in 2016.
Employability and flexibility were just two of the reasons Simron was originally drawn to Stirling.
He said: “It was the spectacular setting of the University, the flexibility of the undergraduate courses, the social life and the excellent career prospects which all brought me to Stirling, and all of my expectations have been fulfilled.
“I have really enjoyed the course itself – not many universities offer the opportunity to study Human Resource Management and it was great to get such flexibility with this course, as well as a huge amount of guidance and support from the University support services and within the University of Stirling Management School.”
Reflecting on his university experience, Simron added: “My time at Stirling has been an amazing journey, from start to finish, and a rollercoaster ride, from first to fourth year.
I was quite reserved when I first came to the University and didn’t undertake any extra-curricular activities: however, I now feel like a more confident, independent and competent individual and I am ready for the next step in my life.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/the-library:
With hundreds of thousands of books and plenty of room for research and study, our spacious library offers all the tools and resources you need to succeed.
Whether you want to work in silence or collaborate on new ideas, you’ll find the perfect space across the library’s three floors – from comfortable sofas and individual study desks to group study rooms and open plan group study pods.
With unrivalled access to archives and special collections and a host of new content, books, journals, databases and ebooks added each year, the library is the perfect place to broaden your mind and indulge your appetite for knowledge.
Current students, staff and visitors
You'll find more details about the full range of library services available to University of Stirling students, staff and visitors on our Information Services webpages – including how to access our online research repository, IT services available, public memberships and more.
Need more information about the library?
Get in touch and we'll be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/macrobert-arts-centre:
Truly setting the on-campus facilities at Stirling apart from the crowd, the Macrobert Arts Centre brings a non-stop schedule of movies, live theatre and much more right to your doorstep.
The Macrobert is home to a modern 135-seat cinema showing everything from the latest blockbusters to independent gems and cult classics all year round.
You can also enjoy some of the hundreds of live shows that take place in the venue’s state-of-the-art auditorium – from stand-up comedy to gripping drama and boundary-pushing dance.
To take a closer look at all the Macrobert Arts Centre has to offer and check out the full programme of current events, visit www.macrobertartscentre.org .
Discover the shops, cafes and student services at the heart of campus.
Whatever you’ve got an appetite for, we’ve got you covered.
Vibrant cities, historic landmarks and breathtaking scenery await.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-courses-for-students-from-scotland:
If you're interested in one of our Nursing courses, call our Clearing team now on 01786 466166 to secure your place at Stirling.
Our award-winning three and four year Nursing courses are approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), to help you become a confident practitioner, equipped to join a health care team upon graduation.
Our Nursing degrees are taught by world-leading academics with expertise in nursing practice and research.
You’ll hone your practical skills at our modernised on-campus clinical skills lab and virtual reality (VR) room.
You'll undertake a variety of placements in hospital and community settings in the NHS Forth Valley area.
Stirling nursing students have repeatedly won Student Nursing Times Awards.
Scottish nursing students are entitled to a £10,000 bursary each year from SAAS (Scottish Awards Agency Scotland) for the first three years of study, and an additional £7,500 if completing an Honours year.
We also cover the costs of occupational health consultations, criminal record checks, compulsory uniforms and inoculations, representing approximately £430 of savings.
Students under 22 can also enjoy free Scotland-wide bus travel, minimising your costs of travel between placement and study.
Nursing placements are a key foundation of studying Nursing at Stirling.
You'll develop skills and experience with placements at NHS Forth Valley and third sector partnerships.
Our placements go beyond standard hospital placements.
You'll learn from a variety of practical experience conducted in diverse settings.
These include the prison service, care homes, forensic placements and acute wards.
Hear from our students about their experiences on placement.
Our modern Clinical Skills Labs and a VR Room for practical learning will equip you with a diverse range of skills, enhancing your abilities as a proficient nurse.
Our nursing students actively engage in the global health community.
One example of this is the Nightingale Initiative for Global Health.
There are also opportunities for students to study abroad and gain valuable experience.
Accommodation available to new Nursing students will be John Forty's Court located off campus next to the historic Stirling Bridge.
It's on the main bus route to Stirling town centre and the University.
Hear from Scott talking about his experience with the clearing process at the University of Stirling as he set off to become a BSc Nursing – Mental Health student.
Hear from other students talking about their experiences through Clearing at the University of Stirling .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-courses-for-students-from-england-wales-northern-ireland-and-republic-of-ireland:
Call our Clearing team now on +44 (0)1786 466166 , or complete our quick form to secure your place at Stirling.
Students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland may be eligible for £9,535 scholarships covering your Honours year tuition fees as well as a £1,000 Welcome Scholarship (terms and conditions apply).
Anyone under the age of 22 who lives in Scotland is also entitled to free nationwide bus travel .
Apply for accommodation by 31 August and you'll be guaranteed an offer of University-managed accommodation in your first year of study (terms and conditions apply).
You can get advice about mental health and wellbeing, money issues, careers and much more.
Lucy Vaughan Belfast, Northern Ireland BA (Hons) Human Resource Management
Hear from Lucy on what she loves about studying at Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-courses-for-eu-students:
Applications close on 18 August 2025 to applicants who require a visa to study in the UK.
Applications closed on 18 August 2025 to applicants who require a visa to study in the UK.
Stirling combines the charm of a historic destination with the friendly buzz of a young population.
Our EU Undergraduate Scholarship offers £5,000 per year (years 1-3), plus the full cost of your fees for the final Honours year of study.
Apply by 31 August and you'll be guaranteed an offer of University-managed accommodation in your first year of study.
Safest city in Scotland
Complete University Guide 2024

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-courses-for-international-students:
International students could be eligible for up to £20,000 in scholarships that can be used towards the payment of annual fees.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice:
We're open from 9:00 to 17:00, Monday to Friday.
Our guide to Clearing provides you with all the information and advice you'll need to find your university Clearing course.
So what is Clearing and how can it help you secure your place on a course at Stirling?
Results Day can be stressful but we'll show you how you can prepare for the important day.
Got a question about Clearing?
Here's the place to get the answers.
Our handy glossary will help explain all those unfamiliar terms used in university Clearing.
How international students can use Clearing to get a university place.
You can also read our top 5 university Clearing tips .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/postgraduate-clearing:
You may have heard of a quick and simple way to obtain last-minute places called UCAS Clearing .
Unfortunately, the Clearing process is only for undergraduate applicants.
Postgraduate Clearing doesn't exist – but don't let that stand in your way.
At the University of Stirling, we accept postgraduate applications for our Masters courses year-round.
There are no formal deadlines, and you can submit your application within weeks of your intended start date.
So, what are you waiting for?
Find your course and secure your place now.
See our Postgraduate open days
We offer a range of qualifications including MSc, MA, and MRes.
Get more information about our postgraduate masters fees along with our funding and scholarship opportunities.
Sign up for updates about postgraduate events, scholarships, life at Stirling and lots more.
If you have additional questions about UCAS Clearing or postgraduate study, don't hesitate to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-experiences-of-stirling-students:
Euan Isle of Arran, Scotland BA (Hons) Business Studies
Hear from Euan who saw Clearing as a great opportunity to get closer to his goals.
He's experiencing a great sense of community at Stirling and has found the help provided from Student Support Services to be invaluable.
Ross Scotland BA (Hons) Social Work
Ross came to Stirling through Clearing after completing an HNC in Childhood Practice.
Hear how he manages studying and working alongside family life.
Ross was able to find relevant part-time work through our Careers Service which he can apply to his learning.
Claudia Forbes-Walker Scottish Borders, Scotland BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
Claudia wanted to pursue her passion for mountain biking.
When she saw the University of Stirling had Clearing spaces for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science, she gave us a call.
Hear from Lucy who visited the University of Stirling pop-up shop in Belfast to talk to our expert staff about Clearing and tells us what she loves about studying at Stirling.
Scott Hunter Scotland BSc Nursing – Mental Health student
Hear from Scott talking about his experience with the clearing process at the University of Stirling as he set off to become a mental health nurse.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/university-clearing-places-popular-courses:
Call our Clearing team now on +44 (0)1786 466166 or use our live chat to secure your place at Stirling.
We have Clearing places available on these courses starting in September 2025 for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, EU and International.
As a result of high demand for our courses, we only have Clearing places available for students from Scotland on our Adult and Mental Health Nursing courses.
Clearing is a popular way for students to secure their University place.
We explore some of the most popular university courses and subjects that are usually available through Clearing at Stirling.
Join via Clearing and our Biology courses will train you in laboratory and field skills across the entire scope of biology, from cell biology through to ecology.
We'll give you the skills and knowledge needed for a wide range of diverse careers in biology.
Stirling is the perfect place to study Biology with wild landscapes on our doorstep.
We are a hub for conservation activity in Scotland.
These courses are only available in Clearing for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, EU and International.
Computer Science in Clearing offer you a range of subjects in software development, cyber security, business computing, software engineering and computing science.
We’ve got those all covered to give you the skills and practical experience and make sure you have diverse career opportunities open to you.
Clearing is a good way of jump-starting your career in Computer science.
Our Criminology courses combine with Sociology and Social Policy and are usually available through Clearing.
Our courses explore fascinating questions surrounding the criminal justice system, the social contexts of crime, and the relationship between behaviour and punishment:
As a Criminology graduate, you’ll leave with the critical thinking, analytical and communication skills that are valued by many employers throughout the private, public and voluntary sectors.
We’re ranked 1st in Scotland and top 15 in the UK for Criminology and Top 5 in Scotland for Sociology (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Economics is more than just about money.
It is a social science that gives you an understanding of how we, as a society, produces and use our resources.
Economics can help with solutions to global problems such as sustainable development and inequality.
Our innovative teaching places great emphasis on applying economic thinking to real world business and policy challenges.
If you really want to understand the modern world, it's essential to unlock the patterns of the past.
History courses can help you do exactly that – and here at the University of Stirling, we take an innovative approach to guiding you through the major events and periods that have shaped us all.
Our History degrees will equip you with a wide range of intellectual and personal skills.
You'll gain an awareness of how different societies across the world have changed over time, by exploring areas such as Scottish, British, European, American and African history.
If you’re thinking about a career in sport, studying sport at Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence is an excellent choice you can make in Clearing.
Job opportunities range from coaching, health and fitness to working in commercial and voluntary sport organisations or governing bodies of sport.
Our sports degrees and subjects through Clearing are a popular choice for students looking to study at a university where sporting excellence is at the heart of everything we do.
Get career-ready with a qualification in nursing from the University of Stirling.
With a blend of classroom learning and practical placements, Stirling is a superb place for you to learn the contemporary skills of nursing.
Our ethos and approach has won numerous Student Nursing Times Awards, and we work with the Nursing and Midwifery Council to ensure that you receive the training you need to join nursing teams after graduation.
Degree flexibility: your choice
Our degree flexibility puts you in control of your education.
You can explore new subjects, combine the ones that interest you or even change your mind about what you’d like to graduate in.
Your career and employability
Our students gain more than just a degree.
We give you the support and advice you need to plan your career and develop your employability.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/computer-science-clearing-courses:
The University of Stirling’s Computing Science degrees will give you the academic learning and practical skills needed to shape your career in the industry.
Our courses will teach you how to design, build and analyse computer systems.
There is a range of subjects for you to choose and specialise in AI, computing, software development and data science.
Our courses have a strong focus on employability, including work placement opportunities or doing you final year’s project with an industry partner.
We only have Clearing places available on these courses starting in September 2025 for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, EU and International.
Due to high demand for places, there are no vacancies for students from Scotland.
We have places available on some of our other Computing Science combined courses:
If you have the ambition and drive to study at the University of Stirling, search for a scholarship to help finance your course.
We’ve got you covered for accommodation.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/criminology-clearing-courses:
Our highly-ranked Criminology courses explore fascinating questions surrounding the criminal justice system, the social contexts of crime, and the relationship between behaviour and punishment.
Combine Criminology with Sociology or Social Policy to 'think like a criminologist' and explore the issues surrounding crime and how it affects wider society.
We have places available on some of our other Criminology combined courses:
Camy wanted to study in the UK and had a keen interest in criminal justice.
She shares her experience of using Clearing to apply to Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/sports-clearing-courses:
As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, Stirling is the perfect place for you to kick-start your career in sport.
At Stirling, Sport is in our DNA and we have developed an international reputation for delivering degrees that get results.
Our Sport courses are integrated with the University's world-class sports facilities and our research and performance analysis laboratories enable you to develop your practical skills in a world-class learning environment.
We're proud of our sporting heritage and the sport and wellbeing facilities we provide for our students.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/economics-clearing-courses:
Study Economics at the University of Stirling and gain the toolkit that can help you tackle the world's most pressing issues and to open the door to endless career opportunities.
Using the revolutionary new and interactive CORE Project - “Economics for a Changing World” approach we look at Economics from a rich and varied perspective: from artificial intelligence (AI) in the labour market to addressing climate change, and from behavioural economic insights in decision-making to tackling global poverty and inequality.
Focusing on real-world examples rather than textbook-theory, an Economics degree from Stirling equips you with sharp analytical tools, from experts in their field, with an ever-present emphasis on intellectual curiosity.
We have places on some of our other Economics related courses:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/history-clearing-courses:
At the University of Stirling, we take an innovative approach to guiding you through the major events and periods that have shaped us all.
Our history degrees will equip you with a wide range of intellectual and personal skills while learning how different societies across the world have changed over time.
We have places on some of our other History related courses:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/accountancy-and-finance-clearing-courses:
If you’re planning a career in accountancy or the financial sector, studying at the University of Stirling is the perfect starting point.
Join via Clearing and our accountancy and finance degrees will empower you to manage financial information for a wide range of organisations.
The skills you learn will enable investors, lenders, management and others to make key decisions based on financial facts.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/biology-clearing-courses:
Are you interested in the evolution of animal behaviour, the genetic engineering of crops or the hidden worlds of molecular and cell biology?
Are you curious about how plants and animals will respond to climate change?
Our Biology courses will give you the skills and knowledge needed for a wide range of diverse careers in biology.
Stirling is the perfect place to study biology with wild landscapes and habitats on our doorstep.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/nursing-clearing-courses:
More than £16,000 in nursing scholarships
Students under 22 can also enjoy free Scotland-wide bus travel.
More than £37,000 bursary available
Top 5 in Scotland for Nursing
Guardian University Guide 2025

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice/what-is-ucas-clearing:
Clearing is the process by which unis fill any places they still have on their courses.
UCAS Clearing gives you the opportunity to secure your university place by applying through the Clearing process.
From 5 July 2025 , you can enter Clearing if you didn’t get the results you were hoping for – or if you did better than you thought you would.
University Clearing at university is a way of matching students without a university place to universities who have course places to fill.
Once your results are available, check the UCAS Hub to see if you’re eligible for Clearing.
This is also is where you’ll find your Clearing number.
You can use university Clearing to find a course place if:
Clearing is about preparation, acting fast and picking up the phone to us as soon as you get your results.
Find out how to get prepared for Results Day .
University Clearing opens on 5 July 2025.
Call us on +44 (0)1786 466166 or email us at clearing@stir.ac.uk .
We'll send you a confirmation email the same day (remember to check your spam folders).
You'll have 24 hours to confirm your offer through UCAS Hub.
Log in to your UCAS account to confirm your offer before the offer expires.
If you don't receive an email, phone our Clearing line.
Holding another offer does not stop you coming to the University of Stirling.
If you contact our Clearing helpline we'll be happy to check your eligibility and talk you through the processes involved.
Yes, you will need to contact your relevant student finance organisation.
Keep all your important documents and identification to hand, as this will make the application process run smoothly.
Once you've secured your place at Stirling through the UCAS Clearing process, you'll receive a confirmation email from us.
This will have your Applicant Number on it.
We'll send you an email in the weeks after accepting your place with instructions on how to apply for accommodation at Stirling.
If you're from England, Northern Ireland, Wales, Republic of Ireland or international, we’ll guarantee you an offer of University-managed accommodation in your first year of study if you meet the eligibility criteria.
Your accommodation application must reach us by 31 August.
We may be slightly biased, but we think Stirling’s a great place to live and study in.
We’re less than an hour from both Glasgow and Edinburgh airports, with great bus and train links – so you’ll never be too far from home.
At the University of Stirling, we like to think that we offer a student experience that is second to none.
Our campus welcomes people from all walks of life.
It’s a place where ability, not background, is valued.
We’re a university with a pioneering spirit and a passion for breaking new ground – creating impact in everything we do.
Come and join us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice/get-prepared-for-results-day:
The countdown is on for results day.
We know waiting can feel like agony especially if you need certain results to get your course place at University.
Results day can be stressful but keep calm and don’t panic.
The best way to approach Clearing is research your choices so that you avoid making a panicked decision and you're ready for the day.
Our guide will help you prepare for results day.
Whatever happens with your results, you will still have plenty of options.
Clearing is now a common way of applying to university for many students.
Students in Scotland get their SQA results on Tuesday 5 August 2025 .
A-levels results come out on Thursday 14 August 2025 .
International Baccalaureate results day is 6 July 2025 .
Applying for Clearing can be hectic so it's important to research and think about your options before results day.
For those in Scotland doing SQA Highers, your Scottish Qualification Certificate (SQC) will arrive by first class post.
If you activated your MySQA account you'll get your results by e-mail and/or text.
If you've done A-levels you’ll receive your results from your school or college.
As soon as you’ve got your results you can log into UCAS Hub from 9:00am on SQA results day and from 8:00am on A level results day to see the status of your offer.
It’s important you don’t just assume you’ve automatically lost your place if you haven’t achieved all conditions of your firm or insurance offer.
The university might still accept your results so check with your original choices.
UCAS Hub will tell you if you’re eligible to go into Clearing.
You can then start searching for available university places.
It's worth looking at UCAS's information on explaining what your status in Hub means and what to do next.
Call your shortlisted universities as soon as you know your results.
We want to speak to you directly so please don’t get someone else to call on your behalf unless you’ve given them nominated access.
How to get the best out of your phone call:
If you get an offer over the phone, congratulations!!
You're now at university.
You’ll be able to go onto UCAS Hub to formally accept the offer.
You can then start an application for accommodation as well as student funding .
We know this could be a difficult time for you but it's important to remember there are options for you, nor are you alone.
You can take a year out, regroup and retake your exams.
You could build up some work experience or move over to a different qualification path on apprenticeships and traineeships.
You could even study abroad on courses offered in English.
Get some advice and assess your options.
There will be a way through to something that will be right for you.
Hear from some of our students who found coming to the University of Stirling through Clearing to be a simple, easy process and one of the best decisions they've made.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice/clearing-faqs:
Got a question about UCAS Clearing?
We've got you covered.
Read on to find out all you would ever want to know about Clearing: how the process works, what to do on results day, Clearing deadlines, what subjects you can apply for in Clearing, and much more.
Clearing is part of the UCAS process for undergraduates.
It is a way of matching students without a university place to universities that have course places available.
Read a more detailed explanation in our complete guide to Clearing .
Universities that still have some places available will publish a list of their courses with Clearing spaces when Clearing starts in early July.
If you already have the qualifications required, then you can apply right away.
However, most candidates will need to wait until they receive their results in August.
When you have your results, you can contact the university directly to apply for your Clearing place.
Find out more about how Clearing works on our blog.
There is a wide range of reasons why you might choose to apply for a course through Clearing, for example:
On results day, log in to UCAS Hub and check if you are eligible for Clearing.
If you are, you should research Clearing university places and find one that appeals to you.
Once you have found a course you're interested in, contact the university to see if you meet the entry requirements and if they have vacancies for you.
Read our blog on what to say when you call our Clearing hotline .
If you are offered a place, you will be guided through the specific processes you will need to go through, and also have these emailed to you.
Officially accepting your offer is a straight-forward process for most applications, but if at any time you have any questions you can contact the University Clearing Advisers through the helpline ( 01786 466 166 ) or talk to us on Live Chat.
There is no additional cost for Clearing if you have already submitted a UCAS application.
If you have not submitted a UCAS application, you pay a one-off application fee of £28.50 for 2025 entry.
University Clearing usually opens in early July each year.
In 2025, it will start on 5 July.
Most candidates will apply for Clearing when they get their results in August.
See the whole Clearing timeline on our Clearing dates page.
Clearing at the University of Stirling normally ends before the teaching of our undergraduate courses begins.
The UCAS deadline for adding Clearing choices is around mid-October, but most undergraduate courses start in September and have limited availability.
So you really shouldn't leave Clearing until the last minute.
Check out our Clearing dates page which lists all the important Clearing dates for this year.
Once the process gets started, Clearing can be very quick.
Once we have your results and a chance to find out more about you, we can often give a verbal offer over the phone.
You will then have a limited time to formally accept that offer, usually a day or so.
So the whole process can only take a couple of days, end-to-end.
That is why it is so important to research Clearing places and universities ahead of time, so you have a clear plan and can make decisions quickly and confidently.
Find out how you can prepare for results day on our blog.
Yes.
Our Clearing places are offered on a first-come, first-served basis, which is why it is so important to contact us as soon as possible.
You can make this easier by doing some research before results day and making a Clearing plan, so you can phone your chosen universities quickly and maximise your chances of getting an offer.
In fact, you need to contact us directly so we can offer you a Clearing place.
You can contact us in lots of different ways:
We are available from 9.00am to 5.00pm Monday to Friday, and for extended hours around SQA and A-level results days.
When Clearing opens, all our available courses will be on our website.
There's a list of courses depending on where you're from:
You can also search on the UCAS website .
There are lots of ways that you can contact us about Clearing.
Our friendly and experienced team are on hand to help.
You will typically be eligible to use Clearing if you:
No.
If you don't currently hold any offers, then Clearing is a fantastic way to get a university place.
The only thing to be mindful of is that you will be expected to make decisions quickly, so do some research ahead of results day to make sure you are well prepared for the Clearing process.
Here are top 5 university Clearing tips to help you get started.
Clearing has no age limit, and at the University of Stirling, we accept Clearing applications from all students, not just school leavers.
Check out our Clearing advice for mature students and find out more about coming to us from college .
Yes!
But you need to be quick.
We recommend contacting one of our Clearing Advisers on our helpline ( 01786 466 166 ) or through Live Chat.
They will guide you through the process.
Holding another offer does not stop you from coming to the University of Stirling.
If you contact our Clearing Helpline ( 01786 466 166 ), we can check your eligibility and talk you through the processes involved.
Read our blog for more tips on what to do if you change your mind about your course choice .
We welcome clearing applications from international and EU students and our vacancies can be found here:
The Clearing process is only for undergraduate course places.
But don't worry.
At the University of Stirling, we accept applications for our postgraduate Masters courses all year round.
Search our courses now to find your place and start your application.
Yes, you can contact several universities through Clearing.
You can even get several offers, but you can only accept one.
Once you've made your decision, the Clearing team at your chosen university can guide you through the process of formally accepting your offer.
In fact, many of our Clearing course places are for joint honours degrees.
Take a look at our Clearing places and find a combination that appeals to you.
Many students use Clearing as an opportunity to change direction and consider something new.
If you meet the admissions criteria, you can apply for any course through Clearing, even if it differs from your original UCAS choices.
Yes, as long as you meet those entry requirements.
Some students use Clearing because they get better results than expected.
We have lots of advice on our website to help you prepare for Clearing.
Check out our Clearing advice hub , and sign up for Clearing updates to get lots of hints and tips on how to get ready for results day.
You will unlikely be able to apply through Clearing until you have received your exam results.
Once your results have been confirmed, you can contact us to find your Clearing place.
Waiting for exam results can be nerve-wracking, and sometimes it feels like they will take forever to arrive.
But you can use this time to prepare for Clearing.
Most universities (including the University of Stirling) publish their Clearing places well before results day, so why not do some research ahead of time and make a note of the universities and courses that appeal to you?
That way, you will have a plan of action once the big day finally arrives.
Find out how you can prepare for results day on our blog .
Do lots of research and ask plenty of questions when you talk to our Clearing team.
Only you will know what aspects of university life matter most to you, so think about what questions you would like to ask to help you make your decision.
Good questions to ask may include:
Get more Clearing tips in our advice hub .
Clearing can be a challenge if you haven't decided what career you would like to have yet.
You might want to defer your studies for a year and take some time to think about it, or you may want to choose a course that has some flexibility so you can change the focus of your degree further down the line.
At the University of Stirling, we are renowned for our undergraduate degree flexibility , with over 170 single and combined courses.
You can graduate with joint honours or, in some cases, in a different subject entirely.
If a university does not go into Clearing, you cannot apply for a Clearing place at that particular institution.
Do some research, open your mind to new possibilities and find out if other universities have Clearing places in similar courses to what you want to study.
You may be pleasantly surprised with what you discover.
However, if your heart is really set on a particular university that doesn't have any Clearing places available, you will probably need to wait and try again in the next UCAS application cycle.
First of all, congratulations!
Having several Clearing offers is a great position to be in.
But unfortunately, you can only accept one Clearing offer.
The decision on which to pick is ultimately up to you.
Make sure you thoroughly research all the universities and courses you hold clearing offers for, and don't be afraid to contact the university Clearing team if you have any more questions that might help you make your decision.
If you gather enough information about the aspects of the course and university life that matter to you, you are bound to make the right call.
Don't give up - keep an open mind and research universities with Clearing places perhaps you didn't initially consider.
You might uncover an exciting opportunity that you didn't see first time around.
If you feel like you have truly exhausted all of your options and you still don't have a Clearing place, you could take some time to get some work experience or do further study to get closer to meeting the requirements of your chosen course.
Then you can try applying again in the next UCAS application cycle.
Going through Clearing can be a stressful time.
Check out our Clearing advice hub and sign up for Clearing updates for help and support while you find your Clearing place at the University of Stirling.
You can also contact us with any questions you have.
Our Clearing team is happy to help:
See our Clearing guide for teachers and careers advisers .
Read our guide to Clearing for parents, guardians and carers with lots of advice about supporting your student through the Clearing process.
Log into UCAS Hub and check your status.
If you are in Clearing, your status will say "You are in Clearing".
Don't panic!
As soon as you have your results, you can log into UCAS Hub to see the status of your offers.
Don't assume you've automatically lost your place if you haven't attained all conditions of your firm or insurance offer.
UCAS Hub will tell you if you're eligible to go into Clearing.
See our guide to preparing for Results Day for more hints and tips.
If you've already applied through UCAS and you're eligible for Clearing, your Clearing ID number will be on your UCAS Hub welcome page.
You can search on the UCAS website , or you can go to the university website.
On the University of Stirling website there is a list of available courses depending on where you're from:
Yes, if you already have the qualifications you need to apply for your chosen course, you can apply when Clearing opens in early July.
However, most candidates will need to wait until they have received their results before they can apply.
Information on our Clearing courses will be available from early July, so you will have a chance to research your options.
If you register for updates , we will let you know when our university Clearing courses are available.
You don't need any documents as such, but when you call us ( 01786 466 166 ) or contact us through Live Chat, you should have the following details to hand:
Read more hints and tips for preparing for results day on our blog.
We will get the information we need for your Clearing application from your current personal statement, or we will find out more about you and your reasons for applying for your chosen course when you call us ( 01786 466 166 ) or talk to us over Live Chat.
It depends on the course you are applying for.
You may have to complete a small, informal interview for some of our courses.
An interview is not an official part of the application for many of our courses, but our team would still like to hear about your motivations and reasons for applying for your chosen course.
So, it is a good idea to think about it before you pick up the phone to us or log in to our Live Chat.
Log into UCAS Hub and click "add a Clearing choice".
If we can offer you a place, our team on the Clearing Helpline and Live Chat will guide you through the process of officially accepting it.
It depends on what you would like to change.
Some details you can change yourself in your UCAS application, other things (such as start date or course choice), you may need to contact your chosen university.
UCAS has a full guide on making changes to your undergraduate application.
The Clearing helpline ( 01786 466 166 ) opens in early July each year when Clearing opens.
We are available from 9:00 to 17:00 Monday to Friday, and for extended hours around SQA and A-level results days.
You'll talk to one of our friendly Clearing team members who is there to help you.
Make sure you have a note of your exam results, UCAS personal ID and Clearing ID.
They'll check if you're eligible for Clearing and then let you know of your options.
For some of our courses, you might be invited to have a short phone interview.
When you call us ( 01786 466 166 ) or contact us through Live Chat, you should have the following details to hand:
Read more hints and tips for preparing for results day .
As tempting as it is to get someone else to call the universities' Clearing phone lines on your behalf, most of the time we will want to speak to you directly.
Someone can only speak with universities on your behalf if you have given nominated access on your UCAS form.
We want to find out more about you and your motivations for applying for your chosen course, and the best way to do that is to speak directly with you.
If you feel a little nervous about picking up the phone, check out our blog with top tips for what you say when you call us .
Please keep trying.
Our lines will be busy, especially on results day, but we will answer your call as soon as possible.
You will also be able to contact us through Live Chat.
Check out our blog post on what to say on the phone when you call universities for Clearing .
You'll be given a verbal offer then we'll send you a confirmation email the same day, usually from clearing@stir.ac.uk (remember to check your spam folders).
You don't have to accept straight away – you'll have time to consider but please remember spaces can be very limited for certain courses and we may only be able to hold your space for a short time.
If you decide to accept our offer, we'll give you details explaining the processes you need to go through.
Once you have a verbal offer from us, our team will tell you how long you have to consider it and formally accept in UCAS Hub.
We will give you a little bit of time to think about it, but some courses will have very limited spaces so it would be best if you accept any offer as quickly as you can to avoid disappointment.
All of the Clearing places we offer are for the current academic year.
If you would like to defer your studies, consider making a fresh application in the next UCAS cycle.
Log into UCAS Hub and self-release from your choice.
This will re-enter you into Clearing.
You can then add another course choice or consider taking a year out to think about your next step .
Clearing is a common and well-established way to get a University place.
You have earned your place just like everyone else and will be treated the same as all your peers on your course.
Yes you can, but you'll need to get in touch with your relevant student finance organisation.
If you're from England, Northern Ireland, Wales or Republic of Ireland, or an international or EU student, we guarantee you an offer of University-managed accommodation in your first year of study if you meet the eligibility criteria.
See our accommodation .
Our Clearing helpline staff will be happy to answer any questions you have about studying with us.
You can also go to our Welcome Website for new students which has lots of information about what you can expect in your first weeks.
Clearing students will have access to all the same student support services as their peers.
When you study with us, you will have access to a wide range of student support, including:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice/ucas-clearing-glossary:
To help you get your head around the UCAS Clearing process in Scotland, and what it all means, we’ve put together a handy glossary of terms so you’re ready to discuss your options when you get your results.
Choice – A choice is a course you apply for.
If you’ve applied through UCAS, you may have made multiple choices.
When you get your results, you can view our Clearing vacancies - courses with available places - and make your choice through UCAS Clearing.
Clearing – UCAS Clearing is the process you can go through if you didn’t get a place on a course of your choice – whether because you didn’t receive any offers, declined your offers, or didn’t get the grades you needed.
Find out more about how clearing works .
Clearing number / ID - If you’ve applied through UCAS and you’re eligible for Clearing, your Clearing number or ID will be on your UCAS Hub welcome page.
It is different to your UCAS personal ID.
Clearing Plus is a personalised UCAS service that will match unplaced undergraduate applicants to relevant courses with vacancies.
Conditional offer – An offer of a place on a course subject to certain conditions – usually linked to your results.
Confirmation – If you meet the terms of a conditional offer – for example, you get the required results - you will be offered a place on the course.
Course – View our Clearing courses to find vacancies across different subjects and levels.
These will vary depending on which country you are applying from.
Course Code - the UCAS course code is the number in the UCAS system attributed to each course.
Extra – Extra is another chance for you to gain a place at university or college.
If you used all five of your choices on your original application and you’re not holding an offer, you’ll be able to add another choice using Extra between 28 February and 4 July.
Entry requirements – Each course has criteria - from specific subjects and grades to admissions tests and interviews - that you need to meet to be considered for a place.
Firm choice – An offer you accept as your first choice within your UCAS application.
Hub – UCAS Hub allows you to track your application.
During Clearing, if you receive an offer and are applying through UCAS, you will need to add the course to your Hub so it can be processed.
Informal offer – Through UCAS Clearing, you may receive an informal offer.
Once you add this as your clearing choice in UCAS Hub and it has been processed, it will be confirmed.
Insurance choice – An offer you accept as your second choice within your UCAS application – in case you don’t meet the conditions of your firm offer.
Point of entry – This is the year of the course you start at.
Your point of entry may not always be the first year, depending on your qualifications and the requirements of the course.
UCAS – The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service in the UK, through which most students apply to undergraduate courses.
UCAS number / personal ID - your UCAS number is your personal ID given to you by UCAS.
It's not the same as your Clearing number or ID.
Unconditional offer – An offer of a place on your chosen course that is subject to no conditions.
Unsuccessful – The outcome of an application if you either haven’t been made an offer or you have not met the conditions of an offer.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice/clearing-dates:
When does Clearing open?
When is Results Day?
Here are the important Clearing dates for your diary.
29 January: UCAS applications close
Applications for all 2025 entry undergraduate courses should be submitted to UCAS by 18:00 (UK time) on 29 January 2025.
26 February: UCAS Extra opens
If you've not received any university offers for your five choices, you can add another choice using UCAS Extra.
It gives you another chance to gain a place at university or college.
If you don't get the offer of a place through Extra, you still have another chance with Clearing.
UCAS Extra runs from 26 February to 4 July.
Find out more about UCAS Extra .
Do you get UCAS Extra confused with Clearing?
Read our blog: UCAS Extra vs.
Clearing - what's the difference?
30 June: UCAS applications close
UK students can apply via UCAS for a university place until 18:00 (UK time) 30 June.
After this deadline, your application for a course will automatically be entered into Clearing.
International students can apply through UCAS as normal.
See our Clearing guide for international students .
30 June: Accommodation guarantee deadline for students from Scotland
Deadline for eligible students to apply for guaranteed Stirling accommodation .
After this date, accommodation may be available, but no longer guaranteed.
4 July: UCAS Extra closes
This is the final day you can add another course choice through UCAS Extra.
Any additional courses added to your application after this date will need to be added through the Clearing process.
5 July: UCAS Clearing opens
You can now apply for a university course using Clearing.
Why not read our Clearing guide for more information on how to secure your place through Clearing?
6 July: International Baccalaureate results
Publication of International Baccalaureate results
5 August: SQA results day
SQA Highers and Advanced Highers results are published for Scotland.
14 August: A-Levels results day
A-Levels results are published.
Read our tips and guide on how to get prepared for results day .
31 August: Accommodation guarantee deadline for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, EU and International
Deadline for eligible students to arrange your guaranteed Stirling accommodation .
31 August: Clearing at Stirling closes
Last date to apply to Stirling through Clearing.
15 September: Autumn semester starts
Take part in Welcome Week with lots of activities and information sessions to help you make the best start to your studies and life at Stirling.
22 September: Teaching starts
Teaching starts at Stirling for the Autumn semester.
20 October: UCAS Clearing closes
Last date to add Clearing choices on UCAS.
Clearing at Stirling closes at the end of August.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/campus-tour-booking-form:
Complete our campus tour booking form to reserve your place on one of our student-led tours of the University of Stirling campus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/arts-humanities:
Dr Dee Amy-Chinn Gender Studies Scholarship
This scholarship for the MLitt / MSc Genders and Sexualities is funded by the family of our much-loved and much-missed colleague Dr Dee Amy-Chinn.
Value
£2,000
Number of awards
2
Fee status
England, Wales, NI, Republic of Ireland, International (including EU), Scotland
John Robert Hamilton Memorial Scholarship
The John Robert Hamilton Memorial Scholarship is available to give financial support to postgraduate students taking their history Masters degree at the University of Stirling.
£1,000
1
England, Wales, NI, Republic of Ireland, Scotland
Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Doctoral Studentships
This prestigious scholarship, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), is for students doing a PhD in any field of the arts and humanities.
See details
Funded PhD studentship looking at social and political reactions to HIV/AIDS
This PhD studentship will fund a project studying social and political reactions to HIV/AIDS.
The postholder will collaborate with the team led by Dr Nikolaos Papadogiannis, working on the project “HIV/AIDS Campaigning between the Global South and Western Europe since the 1980s”, which is funded by a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.
Stipend at UKRI levels for three years, and full tuition fees.
One
Centre for the Sciences of Place and Memory PhD Studentships 2025 (Round 2)
We are recruiting 6 PhD studentships, fully funded by the University of Stirling, which will aim to advance knowledge of the dynamic relations between place and memory.
Provides full UK fees (£5,006) and a stipend set at the UKRI minimum annual award for 2025/26 (£20,780 p.a.).
The funded period for all awards is 3.5 years FTE (42 months).
Due to Leverhulme’s funding restrictions, only full-time students may apply.
There are limited fee waivers and stipends available for international students.
6 PhD Studentships
The Gaelic Books Council Scholarship
A full scholarship on our MLitt Publishing Studies awarded to a student with fluent written and spoken Scottish Gaelic.
Up to £11,500 (full home/EU fees, plus up to £2,000 travel and subsistence)

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/health-sciences-and-sport:
International Sports Scholarship Programme
Our International Sports Scholarship Programme is one of the largest high performance sports programmes in the UK.
Up to £5,000 per year
Multiple
Sports scholarships (England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, EU or International)
These scholarships are part of the largest high-performance sports programme in the UK, which supports and sends athletes to Olympic, World and Commonwealth Games.
Up to 18
England, Wales, NI, Republic of Ireland, International (including EU)
Nursing Scholarship and Access to Nursing Bursary (for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland)
The Nursing Scholarship and Access to Nursing Bursary provides students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland with a £2,000 fee waiver each year on any one of our undergraduate Nursing courses.
£2,000 per year + costs
England, Wales, NI, Republic of Ireland

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/business:
Karen Napier Scholarship - MSc Investment Analysis
Two Karen Napier Scholarships are generously funded by the Karen Napier Fund and the University of Stirling Business School in memory of Karen, a graduate of the MSc in Investment Analysis.
Tuition fees + £11,000
ICAS Foundation Scholarship
The ICAS Foundation Programme provides an all-encompassing range of support for students planning to study accounting or finance at university.
£2,500 per annum for 4 years
5

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/natural-sciences:
The Mister Gees Foundation Scholarship
This scholarship will be awarded to a student who has achieved an unconditional place at the University of Stirling to study MSc Sustainable Aquaculture.
£5,000
Ronald Miller Scholarship
The scholarship will be awarded to a student who has achieved an unconditional place at the University of Stirling to study MSc Sustainable Aquaculture.
£8,500
British Council Women in STEM Scholarship
Scholarship for exceptional female STEM students offering a monthly stipend, travel costs, visa and insurance costs and more.
International (including EU)
Nikos Steiropoulos Scholarship
The scholarship will be awarded to a student who will join MSc Aquatic Pathobiology, MSc Aquatic Veterinary Studies or MSc Sustainable Aquaculture in September 2025.
Full cost of tuition fee
Sustainable Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC) MSc Scholarships
Fully funded places on our Aquaculture MSc courses are supported by the Sustainable Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC).
Fully funded places
16

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/social-sciences:
The Anne Wingate Paterson Scholarship
Awards will be made to individuals with a place on a postgraduate programme for the study and prevention of child abuse and neglect.
British Council Scholarship for English Language Teachers India
This scholarship is available to Indian students who are studying MSc TESOL (Online) on a part-time, distance-learning basis over 30 months.
6
NHS Social Work Bursary
The Social Work Bursary is available for undergraduate and postgraduate students on our Social Work courses to support creating skilled and qualified social workers.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/general:
Honours Year Scholarship
Students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man can get a scholarship covering fees for their Honours year of study.
£9,535
Undergraduate Merit Scholarship
This scholarship provides a £1,000 cash award per year (for Years 1–3) for eligible students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland.
£3,000
EU Undergraduate Scholarship
The EU Undergraduate Scholarship provides fee discounts and costs for EU students studying at the University of Stirling.
£5,000 fee discount every year, plus Honours year scholarship *
Unlimited
International Undergraduate Scholarship
Our International Undergraduate Scholarship offers eligible students £2,000* per year (£8,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
£8,000
GEMS International Undergraduate Scholarship
Our GEMS International Undergraduate Scholarship offers eligible students £2,000 each year (£8,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate Transnational Education (TNE) Partner Transfer Scholarship
A 20% tuition fee waiver for Transnational Education (TNE) students who transfer from an official TNE partner of the University to study at Stirling for a year or more at an undergraduate level.
20% tuition fee waiver
Robertson Trust Scholarship
Financial support for 16 to 25 year olds in Scotland who face barriers to higher education.
Up to £4,250 per year
10
Scotland
Undergraduate USA Scholarship
Our Undergraduate USA Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
£20,000
Undergraduate Canada Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Canada Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate South Africa Scholarship
Our Undergraduate South Africa Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate Zimbabwe Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Zimbabwe Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate United Arab Emirates (UAE) Scholarship
Our Undergraduate United Arab Emirates Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate Malaysia Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Malaysia Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate Hong Kong Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Hong Kong Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate Norway Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Norway Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Stirling Welcome Scholarship
The Stirling Welcome Scholarship provides a £1,000 cash award to all undergraduate students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland who enrol as a student on a course delivered at the University's Stirling campus.
Stirling Success Scholarship
£5,000 Stirling Success Scholarship package for all eligible students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland commencing studies from September 2026.
Undergraduate Türkiye Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Türkiye Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Undergraduate Africa Scholarship
Our Undergraduate Africa Scholarship offers eligible students £5,000 per year (£20,000 over four years) towards the payment of annual fees.
Postgraduate Merit Scholarship
We are offering all UK or Republic of Ireland students with a first-class Honours degree (or equivalent) a £2,000 scholarship to study full-time on any taught Masters course.
The award is offered on a pro-rata basis for students who are studying part time.
EU Postgraduate Scholarship
The EU Postgraduate Scholarship provides a fee discount for EU students studying at the University of Stirling.
£5,000 tuition fee discount
The Data Lab Scholarships
We are offering fully funded places on a selection of on-campus Masters courses in partnership with The Data Lab and the Scottish Funding Council.
Commonwealth Distance Learning Scholarships
Commonwealth Distance Learning Scholarships support talented students from developing Commonwealth countries to undertake postgraduate study at a distance or via online learning.
Covers all course fees
Commonwealth Shared Scholarships
Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are for candidates from developing Commonwealth countries, looking to study selected postgraduate Masters courses.
8
Stirling Alumni Scholarship
This scholarship provides a discount for the first year of a full-time or part-time Masters degree for students who have completed their undergraduate degree at the University of Stirling.
15% fee waiver*
GREAT Scholarship China
A scholarship is available to a student from China studying any postgraduate taught degree at the University of Stirling for a course starting in January 2026.
£10,000
Saint Andrew's Society of the State of New York Scholarship
For the academic year 2025-2026, the St Andrew's Society for the State of New York is offering two scholarships to Scottish students wishing to study for a postgraduate master's in the United States.
Each studentship will have a maximum value of $45,000 USD.
$45,000
Up to 2
Postgraduate East Asia Scholarship
This scholarship is open to full-time, on-campus, self-funding students who are living in mainland China, Hong Kong (SAR), Japan, Macau, South Korea, or Taiwan.
£7,000 *
GREAT Scholarship Mexico
A scholarship is available to a student from Mexico studying any postgraduate taught degree at the University of Stirling.
Postgraduate Ghana Scholarship
This scholarship is open to full-time, on-campus, self-funding students living in Ghana.
£4,000
Postgraduate India Scholarship
This scholarship is open to full-time, on-campus, self-funding students living in India.
Postgraduate Kenya Scholarship
This scholarship is open to full-time, on-campus, self-funding students living in Kenya.
Postgraduate Nigeria Scholarship
This scholarship is open to full-time, on-campus, self-funding students living in Nigeria.
Postgraduate Pakistan Scholarship
This scholarship is open to full-time, on-campus, self-funding students living in Pakistan.
Singapore Institute of Management Postgraduate Scholarship
This scholarship is for the first year of a full-time Masters degree, and is available to international students who have graduated from our partner, Singapore Institute of Management , with a University of Stirling undergraduate degree.
Lingnan University Postgraduate Scholarship
This scholarship is awarded for the first year of a full-time Masters degree and is available to international students who have graduated from our Hong Kong partner, Lingnan University, with a University of Stirling undergraduate degree.
Chevening Scholarships
Chevening Scholarships is the UK government's scholarships programme for international students studying Masters degrees.
The Fulbright University of Stirling Award
The University of Stirling and the Fulbright Commission offers funding for postgraduate studies in health, wellbeing or sports science.
Full tuition fee waiver plus living costs
Postgraduate Taught International Partnerships Scholarship
A tuition fee waiver on any full-time on-campus postgraduate taught course at the University of Stirling for eligible international students.
Aziz Foundation Scholarship
The Aziz Scholarships Programme offers 100% tuition fee scholarships to support British Muslims to study for a Masters at partnered UK universities.
100% tuition fee
9
Be the Difference Postgraduate International Scholarship
£7,000 tuition fee waiver for the first year of a Masters degree and is open to full-time self-funding students who are classed as international for tuition fee purposes starting in September 2025 or January 2026*.
£7,000
September 2025 and January 2026: 100 awards
Commonwealth Masters Scholarships
The agency-nominated Master’s programme is one of three Master’s programmes offered by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships are for applicants from least developed countries and fragile states looking for full-time doctoral study at a UK university.
MSc Podiatry (pre-registration) scholarship
This scholarship is awarded in the form of a 10% tuition fee waiver for the two-year duration of the course.
10% fee discount
University of Stirling International Study Centre Progression Scholarships
As part of our commitment to attracting the very best students to join our diverse international community, we are delighted to offer the University of Stirling International Study Centre Progression Scholarships.
Up to £4,000
Awarded to all eligible students
The Reid Family Scholarship (Widening Participation)
We support Scottish students from Widening Participation backgrounds to help with the financial pressures of living costs and tuition fees so you can achieve your full potential.
£9,000-£21,525
ESRC-funded studentship opportunities: Scottish Graduate School of Social Science
The Scottish Graduate School of Social Science's Scottish Doctoral Training Partnership provides studentship awards each year to students to allow them to do a funded PhD in the social sciences.
Full fees and stipend of £18,622
PhD studentships looking at Global Plague History, c.1400-1700
These two PhD studentships will fund two projects studying environmental and socio-economic contours of plague outbreaks in late-medieval and early modern ‘Old World’.
The postholder will collaborate with the international inter-disciplinary team co-led by Prof Philip Slavin, working on the project “SYNERGY PLAGUE: Reconstructing the environmental and societal drivers of plague outbreaks in Eurasia between 1300 and 1900”, which is funded by ERC Synergy/UKRI EPSRC Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
Stipend at UKRI levels for three years, and full tuition fees
Stirlingshire Educational Trust
Grants available to persons who have been resident in Stirlingshire, either currently or in the past, for a period of at least 5 consecutive years or have been born there.
£100-£500
Sanctuary scholarships
These scholarships will be awarded to access and taught postgraduate students who are seeking asylum or staying in the UK on humanitarian grounds.
Tuition fees plus costs up to £3,000
Higher Education Scholarships for Palestinians (HESPAL)
The HESPAL scholarship is a joint award offered by the British Council and the University of Stirling.
Tuition fees plus stipend
1 Postgraduate taught award and 1 Postgraduate research award

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/scholarships/phd:
We’re part of the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences (ESRC funded) – the UK's largest facilitator of funding, training and support for doctoral students in social sciences.
We’re also members of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (AHRC Funded), and actively recruit postgraduate research students via their competitions.
Stirling is also part of other UK Research Council funded Doctoral Training Partnerships across a range of subjects including Eastbio (Biosciences in Scotland), Iapetus and SUPER (both Natural Environment Research funded for environmental research).
The University also partners with the Commonwealth Scholarships Commission whose PhD Scholarship scheme is led by international development objectives and support.
In addition, our Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) Studentships offer both UK and international students the opportunity to undertake a PhD in inter-disciplinary doctoral projects.
Take a closer look at current funding opportunities using our scholarship finder, learn more about PhD fees and funding, or get in touch to ask a question.
Located on a stunning 330-acre campus in central Scotland, the University of Stirling has a reputation for innovative research that is making a positive impact and allowing us to support and improve life across the world.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/news-archive:
Find an expert for comment, opinion and analysis

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/contact-us:
The team issues news releases on ground-breaking research, major projects, partnership initiatives and topical issues using a range of media, social media and multi-media channels.
As well as managing all media enquiries on behalf of the University we can put you in touch with experts for comments, organise interviews, and supply images, audio and video clips.
If you are a journalist and would like to arrange a visit to the University our team will be happy to arrange this.
We also arrange and oversee filming for news organisations on campus.
We can also supply high quality audio files to news organisations who need quick comment from academic experts on current news stories.
We also manage key communications to staff and current students across the University and act as the central point of contact to support all engagement with politicians, policymakers and interaction with the policy process.
To get in touch with the Communications team email communications@stir.ac.uk or call + 44 (0) 1786 466687.
In the event of an urgent media enquiry or emergency outside office hours please call +44 (0) 1786 473171 and ask to be put in touch with a Duty Communications Officer.
Head of Communications
Public Affairs Manager
Communications Manager
Internal Communications Officer
Communications Officer
Student Communications Officer

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/history-teachers-go-back-to-school-as-they-reshape-scots-role-in-the-empire:
28 August 2025 Share
Teachers in Scotland are learning new skills for the classroom as they reshape how Scottish history in taught in schools.
With the help of specialists from the University of Stirling, teachers are going back to school to learn how to share a new version of Scots emigrant history.
This year’s National 5 and Higher history exams carried new wording relating to migration and empire after the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) changed the course specification from “contribution of Scots” in favour of “the impact” of Scots.
It was a small change but a significant one, say historians and educators.
Until now, schools have been teaching a version of Scots emigrant and colonial history that focuses on Scots as successful pioneers and traders, with limited attention to the effect they had on indigenous people, or to the voices of those who were displaced, exploited or marginalised.
University of Stirling experts from the Faculties of Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities have been working to teach the teachers - upskilling educators of Scottish history and giving them a deeper understanding of Scots’ impact in Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
The year-long continuing professional development (CPD) initiative, funded by the Scottish Government and supported by the SQA, has seen teachers from across Scotland attend online seminars and residential weekend workshops, and complete an extensive reading list, all outside of their working hours.
Dr Joe Smith, one of three University of Stirling academics behind the initiative and a former history teacher, said: “The change to the Scottish history exam wording appears subtle but its impact cannot be overstated.
This initiative supports teachers to navigate a sensitive area and a whole new set of source materials at an important time for teaching and learning.
“It is imperative that Scottish settler history is taught with accuracy, sensitivity and depth, and that teachers have the expertise to answer questions pupils increasingly have about colonial history, systemic racism or historical social justice.”
Fionnuala Glover, a teacher at Holy Rood RC High School in Duddingston, Edinburgh and a participant in the initiative, said: “These histories matter and they have been overlooked for far too long.
I left the sessions with a much deeper understanding of the role Scots played across the empire, and the importance of the way history lessons are delivered, both in their tone and their content.”

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/new-guidance-to-help-people-with-poor-mental-health-and-substance-dependence-get-out-into-nature:
27 August 2025 Share
Nature-based activities bring mental health benefits, but are not always easy to access or design, say experts
The University of Stirling has developed guidance to help health and social care providers design and deliver nature-based programmes for people with poor mental health and substance dependence.
Experts in substance use at the University have created how-to guidance manuals for nature-based programmes, otherwise known as greenspace programmes, that promote health through activities such as gardening, conservation, and forest walks.
This builds on previous work by the team that has evidenced why these types of programmes appear to work for poor mental health and substance dependence.
The guidance has been created in collaboration with existing greenspace programme participants, staff, health professionals, and strategic decision makers, following growing evidence to support the positive effects of nature on health and wellbeing for people experiencing challenges with their mental health and with drugs and/or alcohol.
The manuals provide guidance around initial engagement conversations, risk assessment, service delivery, evaluation, and post-programme support.
As well as considerations around pre-programme planning, and examples of what activities lead to beneficial outcome during sessions, the guidance includes tips on both established and more creative ways to measure participation, including arts and crafts, journalling, and prompts to encourage activity.
The team, based in the University of Stirling’s Salvation Army Centre for Addiction Services and Research , is currently sharing the new resources with health and social care practitioners, through in-person and online events.
The development of the manuals, funded by the Scottish Government’s Chief Scientist’s Office, follows the release of figures in June by Police Scotland showing suspected drug deaths in Scotland rose by 33%, to 308, between January and March 2025, compared to the previous quarter.
Scotland continues to have the highest rate of drug- and alcohol-specific deaths in the UK, with 1,172 drug deaths and 1,277 alcohol-specific deaths in 2023, according to the National Records of Scotland.
The latest statistics are expected next week.
Dr Wendy Masterton, Senior Lecturer in Criminology specialising in substance use at the University of Stirling, said: “We know from our own and other research the positive changes people with drug and alcohol problems experience when they take part in nature-based programmes – for example, feelings of purpose, improved social interactions, increased physical activity, and escaping the stresses of daily life.
However, there are often limited opportunities for them to take part in nature-based activities.
“These manuals provide tools for designing these programmes so that development can be easier and the programmes may be as effective as possible.
The responses from researchers and practitioners in the field so far have been very positive.
We hope they can lead to more greenspace initiatives and positive outcomes for people with poor mental health and substance dependence.” Abby Boultbee, Senior Greenspace Officer at Edinburgh & Lothians Greenspace Trust, said: “The manuals give clear guidance on working with people in recovery to improve mental wellbeing and will be valuable to reach for when planning our next programme.
They are particularly useful in their advice from people with lived experience and offer strong support for evaluating through qualitative methods.” To find out more visit https://greenspace.stir.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/university-athlete-set-for-world-athletics-tour-race-hosted-on-campus:
University of Stirling runner Ryan Martin will this weekend pit himself against athletes from around the world as he takes on The Monument Mile Classic, hosted on campus.
The track mile race – held annually on the University of Stirling athletics track, in the shadow of the National Wallace Monument – attracts competitors from across the globe, including from the United States, Ethiopia, Thailand, Belgium, Denmark and France.
The evening's racing will also include historic and prestigious British Athletics events The Emsley Carr Mile and The Millicent Fawcett Mile - which were last hosted in Scotland 45 years ago.
Part of the World Athletics Challenger Tour, and with pyrotechnics and pizzazz aplenty, the event is popular with the University’s students and staff, and the wider local community.
It is organised by Michael Wright, Performance Endurance Coach at Stirling – Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence – where fourth-year sports scholar Ryan is based.
Ryan, a 1,500-metre runner, competes in the Monument Mile Classic just weeks after representing Great Britain and Northern Ireland at the Under-23 European Athletics Championships in Norway.
Looking ahead to Saturday’s race, he said: “Having spent the past three years training on the track at the University of Stirling, it is going to be an incredible opportunity for to compete on my home track in a field with such incredible depth from around the world, including an Olympic silver medallist.
“A goal of mine is to compete strongly in this world-class field, and to run a top five UK, under-23, all time performance in the track mile.”
Ryan, who trains and races for the University of Stirling, and is coached by Michael, will be joined in the IPME Elite Men’s Race by a host of top competitors, including Joel Ibler Lillesø (Denmark), Kieran Tuntivate (Thailand), Robin van Riel and Rick van Riel (both Netherlands), Evan Jager of the USA (an Olympic silver medalist), Waleed Suliman (USA), Yismaw Dillu (Ethiopia), Philip Morran (Ireland), and Henry McLuckie, Cameron Boyek and Kane Elliot (all Great Britain).
In the ArcticFit Elite Women’s Race, competitors include: Ethiopian national champion Tsige Teshome, Sarah Madeleine (France), defending champion Taryn Rawlings (USA), Christina Aragon, Eleanor Fulton and Colleen Quigley (all USA), and Hollie Parker, Megan Keith, Ellie Leather, Eloise Walker, Sarah Calvert and former University of Stirling athlete Sarah Tait (all Great Britain).
There will be a total of 32 races across the afternoon and evening, from junior to senior levels.
Event organiser Michael said: “It is going to be an incredible night of athletics, and in my role as the Performance Endurance Coach at the University of Stirling, I am very excited to watch all Stirling University Athletic Club athletes competing in the race, and in particular to watch Ryan compete against world level talent on our home track.”
The Monument Mile Classic takes place on the University of Stirling athletics track between 4pm and 10pm on Saturday 30 August.
All spectators are welcome for a spectacular evening of racing; no tickets are required, and entry is free.
More information is available on the event’s Facebook page .
At Stirling, athletes have access to world-class facilities, including a 50-metre pool, unrivalled outdoor space, and state-of-the-art strength and conditioning suites.
In addition to its coaching and facilities, Stirling’s International Sports Scholarship Programme – one of the largest high-performance programmes in the UK – offers athletes funding support, academic flexibility, equipment and kit.
It has supported hundreds of athletes since its inception in 1981 – with many competing on the world stage, including at the Olympics and Commonwealth Games.
Core sports include swimming, golf, tennis, triathlon, football and curling, while individual scholarships cover all Olympic, Paralympic and Commonwealth Games sports.
Read more about sports scholarships at the University of Stirling .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/gender-pay-gap-underestimated-in-official-statistics:
26 August 2025 Share
Researchers have revealed that the data has not been weighted to account for small, young, private sector firms.
A new study reveals that the UK's gender pay gap is larger than official estimates because the data used to calculate it is not weighted to account for jobs in small, young, private sector firms.
Researchers at University College London (UCL), Bayes Business School, the University of the West of England and the University of Stirling reviewed the Office for National Statistics' (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE), which is used to calculate the UK gender pay gap.
The study found that, despite efforts to weight the sample to be representative of the breadth of the UK workforce, it had not accounted for a higher survey non-reponses rate from some types of employers.
Having developed and applied a more representative revised weighting scheme, the researchers re-estimated the size of the UK gender pay gap.
They found the gap has been consistently under-estimated over the past 20 years by a small but noteworthy margin of around one percentage point.
This happened because the original weighting under-represented smaller private sector firms, especially for women, and over-represented larger and public sector employers, where pay is generally higher and the differences between men and women within jobs are generally smaller.
This under-representation was due to smaller private firms being less likely to respond to the ONS survey.
Despite being a mandatory requirement, on average only 63% of employers responded to the survey between 1997 and 2019, dropping to just 46% since 2020.
The response rate among the largest firms was around 50 percentage points higher than among the smallest firms, and around 15 percentage points higher among public sector employers than private sector.
The study also used the revised weighting to review the mechanisms and policy used by governmnet to set the National Minimum Wage (NMW) and National Living Wage (NLW).
The researchers found that the government had inadvertently achieved its target of setting a NLW of two-thirds of median hourly earnings one year ahead of schedule, in 2023.
This was because non-response to the survey meant they had over-estimated median hourly earnings.
The researchers recommend a review of the ONS’s Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings, which collects the data, to improve the accuracy and reliability of its methodology.
Co-author Professor Alex Bryson, of the UCL Social Research Institute, said: “When we saw the higher non-response rate among some firms, we questioned whether this could be skewing the sample and, therefore, distorting its findings.
“By adjusting the weighting, we accounted for this bias and saw that the UK gender pay gap has been consistently under-estimated for decades.”
Co-author Dr Carl Singleton, of the University of Stirling Business School , said: “The implications of our findings are wide-reaching, as the information used in this annual survey affects everything from pay deals to the National Minimum Wage.”
Lead author Professor John Forth, of Bayes Business School, part of City St George's, University of London, said: “We welcome ONS’s recent announcement that they will be conducting a wide-ranging review of methodology behind the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings.
As part of the review, we encourage them to look at how the data can be made more representative of jobs in all types of organisations, so that the issues we observed can be addressed.”
The Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings is used by the Low Pay Commission to monitor the impact of the minimum wage and by the Office for the Pay Review Bodies to inform public sector pay settlements.
It is also used by the World Economic Forum for international comparisons.
The research forms part of the Wage and Employment Dynamics project and was funded by ADR UK (Administrative Data Research UK) and the Economic and Social Research Council.
The Representativeness of the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings and Its Implications for UK Wage Policy is published in the British Journal of Industrial Relations .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/graduation:
Find out everything you need to know about Graduation: dates, tickets, gown hire, photography and more.
Thursday 20 and Friday 21 November 2025
Students will be contacted in late September via their email account regarding the online registration process and further important graduation information.
Every graduand will receive two guest tickets to attend the ceremony and graduation reception.
Find out how to hire your academic hood and gown and what the dress code is for the day.
Find out what happens during the ceremony and the etiquette for the day.
Find out about photography on the day plus our wide range of merchandise which make great souvenirs or gifts.
Can't make the ceremony?
Print, cut, stick and celebrate with our range of graduation day downloads!
Getting here and map
Accessibility
Terms and conditions
Loved ones can't join you on the day?
Don't worry, they can still share this moment by watching our live webcast , which is available during each ceremony.
As a graduate you're a lifelong member of our alumni community.
Find out how we can support you as you take your next steps.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/be-connected:
Discover our programme of free events and activities for our Stirling community of students and staff.
Bookings for activities will open approximately four to six weeks before the event date.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/mental-health-awareness-week:
Archived event.
This event has passed.
12 to 18 May is Mental Health Awareness Week.
This year’s theme is “Community” which is chosen nationally by the Mental Health Foundation.
Being part of a safe, positive community is important for our mental health and wellbeing.
Our programme of events this year focuses on activities which will get you involved in the University community, whether it is attending miniature horse therapy, yoga classes, an aromatherapy workshop or friendship bracelet making!
At the University of Stirling, we are committed to fostering a culture where every staff member can achieve their ambitions, develop their skills, and make a meaningful impact.
As part of Mental Health Awareness week, we are delighted to offer staff the opportunity to enhance their knowledge and understanding of mental health and wellbeing through a fully funded Level 3 Certificate in Understanding Mental Health.
This online course, funded by the Scottish Funding Council, is delivered by The Skills Network at no cost to you.
Designed to be completed in approximately 12 – 20 weeks, it provides a flexible and accessible way to build your knowledge whilst balancing your professional and personal commitments.
Visit Loch View for all things calm and relaxing.
Our Loch View space in room 2A1 of the Cottrell Building is open daily to all staff and students to take time out during their day to look after their wellbeing.
We have stress busting activities such as art, reading, jigsaw puzzles, games and reading for you to engage in.
Try out our weighted blankets and a massage chair!
Opening times Monday-Friday 09:30 - 16:30.
Students can register now to access fitness plans, recipes and hours of wellbeing content relating to study, sleep, mental health and much more.
The nutrition plan section of the platform and app contains calorie information.
The platform also gives direct access to the 24/7 Student Support helpline.
Download the Spectrum.Life app on the Google Play Store or Apple App Store .
View Spectrum.Life's privacy policy

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/contact-us:
University of Stirling public events are managed by the Events Team, Commercial Services, and the programme includes:
On our website, you will also find details of:
If you are a member of staff and would like to submit an event for promotion on the university website, please see our guide to publishing events on the website .
If you are interested in hosting your conference, event, wedding, exhibition or meeting within our 330 acre grounds, please contact the Stirling Venues team on 01786 466000 or email stirlingvenues@stir.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/listings/staff-and-students-events:
Staff Tour - Art Collection
Pop by for a quick, lunchtime tour of the new exhibitions in Pathfoot for staff at the University of Stirling and Forth Valley College.
Everyday Aesthetics in Place and Memory: an alternative economy of heritage abundance
The Centre for Environment, Heritage, and Policy, and the Centre for the Sciences of Place and Memory invite you to a joint seminar.
Part of the Centre for Environment Heritage and Policy Seminar Series series.
Be Connected
Discover a programme of free events and activities for our Stirling community of students and staff.
Celebrating Mid-Autumn Festival
Come along to celebrate Mid-Autumn Festival at the University of Stirling!
Part of the Be Connected series.
Canvas Painting with Blaeberry River Art
Join Blaeberry River Art for the next instalment in our paint and nibbles events at the University of Stirling!
Connecting Cultures
Come along for a fun and informative evening to learn about Scottish culture and customs, try traditional snacks, and make new friends!
Celebrating Diwali: The Festival of Lights
Come along to celebrate the festival of lights at the University of Stirling!
Paws Against Stress (Therapets)
Pop along to our Paws Against Stress (Therapets) sessions this semester and meet some fabulous owners and their lovely pups!
Free Movie Nights for Students
Join your fellow students for free screenings throughout the semester in partnership with the Macrobert Arts Centre!
Halloween Pumpkin Carving
Pop along for an evening of spooky fun with friends  in partnership with Macrobert Arts Centre!
Murder Mystery Evening
Are you ready to join forces, work together, and race for the win?
Sign up to our brand new Murder Mystery Evening on Wednesday 29 October!

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/listings/public-events:
A Sense of Place
Explore a small exhibition of artworks in the Iris Murdoch Building, organised by the Art Collection and chosen from the University’s permanent collection.
University of Stirling Parkrun
A free, fun, and friendly weekly 5k community event.
Walk, jog, run, volunteer or spectate – it's up to you!
Every Saturday at 09:30.
The Art of Observation
This exhibition considers still life as a powerful tool for both artists and scientists and includes work by renowned painter Alison Watt, photographer Julie Howden and objects from our scientific collections, held by the University.
Part of the Art & Science exhibition series, Pathfoot.
PRECISE ORDER | CONTROLLED DISORDER
This exhibition features a selection of works from the permanent collection which bring together the intersection of arts, maths, architecture and patterns found in nature.
Sight and Sound
This interactive exhibition explores the intersections between what we see and what we hear.
Meet the Artist in Residence - Jess Holdengarde
Come by the University of Stirling for a coffee and chat with the Art Collection's newly appointed Artist in Residence, Jess Holdengarde.
Undergraduate Open Day September 2025
Nigeria Independence Day
Come along to celebrate Nigeria Independence Day at the University of Stirling!
Undergraduate Open Day November 2025

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/getting-here/parking:
If you wish to park when parking charges apply, the best way to pay is using the RingGo app or by pay-by-phone.
This page provides further information about these schemes, but if you have questions about any aspect of car parking on campus, please refer to the University's Traffic and Parking Regulations , or contact the Car Parking Office, Cottrell Room 4Z2, +44 (0) 1786 466065.
Parking information for staff and students, including information about parking permits, can be found on staff and student internal sites.
Parking charges apply Monday to Friday, 9.00am - 5.00pm all year round, excluding Christmas and New Year's Day.
You can pay for individual parking sessions by:
Drivers wishing to use this service will be charged for calls at their prevailing network rate.
Additional charges apply for optional text message services that include:
Should you require further information, please contact the Car Parking Office either by phone on 01786 466065, extension 6065 or by email: car.parking@stir.ac.uk .
If you can't get back to your car in time, you can extend your parking time by either calling RingGo (020 3046 0060) or by processing this via the RingGo App where additional payment will be required.
Parking at the University is free of charge for council-issued blue badge holders, but you must register your vehicle so we can update the car parking system.
This can be done by calling the car parking office on 01786 466065 .
If your event takes place during normal office and charging hours of 09:00 to 17:00, Monday to Friday, you will need to pay for parking.
If your event/visit takes place out with these times, no parking charges apply, for example at weekends.
Parking for patients at Airthrey Medical Centre is free of charge.
Vehicles that do not have a valid permit or have otherwise breached the University’s Traffic and Parking Regulations , will be issued with a parking charge notice (PCN), requiring payment of £60.
This will be reduced to £30 if paid within 14 days of the date of the notice.
Failure to pay a PCN within 28 days may result in formal debt collection procedures and/or disciplinary action.
Except in those cases where there is a valid outstanding appeal, permit applications for the subsequent car parking year will not be allowed until all outstanding parking debts have been paid.
Typical parking breaches include:
University security staff patrol all car parks and roadways on a regular basis.
Where a vehicle is judged to be in breach of the University's , a PCN will be issued, and photographic evidence of the breach recorded.
This information is then passed to First Parking LLP who will:
Payment of a Parking Charge Notice issued by First Parking (FP) can be made via:
If for whatever reason you think an error has been made with the issuance of a PCN and there is a case for a valid appeal, this should be made directly to First Parking LLP within 28 days of issue.
In those circumstances where your parking appeal has been received by First Parking LLP and subsequently rejected in accordance with the University’s Traffic and Parking Regulations , you may submit a final right of appeal to the Parking on Private Land Appeals (POPLA).
Further information on POPLA will be given by First Parking LLP.
There remains a further right of appeal to the University ( car.parking@stir.ac.uk ), whose decision will be final.
The management of car parking is essential to ensure a safe and accessible environment for all campus users.
The University reviews the arrangements for parking each year to ensure that, as far as practical, the demand for parking and the availability of spaces is optimised.
The Parking Permit system was introduced in September 2000 in response to ever-increasing congestion and associated hazards caused by inappropriate and dangerous parking on campus.
To provide an alternative to parking on campus, we have promoted travel options and encouraged students and staff to benefit from these where possible.
The charges fund the costs associated with the service both in terms of capital investment in equipment and annual running costs for maintenance and staff resources.
Most people who choose to drive to their place of work must pay for parking and the University's action is no different.
Core funds cannot be used to subsidise this activity.
It will be up to individual departments to refund any car parking charges to the relevant visitors where applicable.
Generally, it is not possible to reserve a car parking space except for certain specific University events or for individuals detailed within the University's guest car parking and reservations policy .
You can still complete the Reserve a Car Parking Space Request Form and email it to car.parking@stir.ac.uk‌ copying it to graham.seath@stir.ac.uk .
The University campus is one of the most beautiful in Europe and its development is very carefully considered to ensure that it remains this way.
It is also a designated Historic Garden and Designed Landscape, which aims to ensure that its landscape setting is protected.
Further, all planning authorities are reluctant to allow the creation of additional parking and expect organisations to limit demand by offering alternative means of travel.
While a new car park was recently constructed on the south side of the campus, this had to meet strict planning requirements which took account of the loss of existing car parking space, as a result of the construction of the new INTO Building and the redevelopment of the Sports Centre.
Electric vehicle charging stations are located within Cottrell car park, at the rear of the Pathfoot Building and at the Polwarth Building.
Charges will apply - see the ChargePlace Scotland website for the latest tariff.
A maximum charging time of 4 hours applies, after which users should move their vehicles to an alternative designated parking space.
Users must still purchase a valid car parking permit or pay for parking.
Each car manufacturer provides vehicle-specific charging instructions, and instructions are provided on the charging terminals.
Find more information on electric vehicle charging on the ChargePlace Scotland website .
Alternatives to travelling to/from campus by single occupancy car journey can be found by visiting the Getting Here section of the University website.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/eating-drinking:
From breakfast to dinner, there are plenty of choices on campus including restaurants, cafes, bars and coffee spots.
The Grubs Up advance purchase deal is ideal for students who want to maintain a healthy and balanced diet for significantly reduced prices compared to over the counter purchases.
Grub's Up deals
Purchase your meals in advance for the full term to save money and take the stress out of cooking breakfasts and dinners.
Stirling Campus Eats rewards scheme
Download our rewards app or sign up online to earn loyalty points and rewards in all Campus Eats food and drink venues.
Location: Macrobert Arts Centre
Situated in the Macrobert Arts Centre our backstage bar and bistro offers a wide range of hot and cold items for lunch and dinner.
Relax with a barista coffee, hot grab and go options and a choice of sweet treats throughout the day.
Backstage opening hours
Backstage is open Monday to Wednesday for live shows and events.
Backstage Kitchen a full menu of delicious wraps, bowl food and traditional favourites available for live shows and events.
Location: Cottrell Building
Conveniently located at the Cottrell entrance, Bite is a great place to grab a coffee, hot or cold breakfast or lunch on the go.
Bite opening hours
Bite will be closed for the summer and will re-open in September.
Location: Lochside, across from the Sports Centre
Boardwalk, our mobile coffee venue offers barista coffee and hot drinks, pastries, scones, sandwiches and soft drinks.
Whether you are walking around the loch at the weekend, moving from building to building during the week or getting out at lunchtime, Boardwalk is ideally situated for grab-and-go drinks, snacks, and sandwiches.
Boardwalk opening hours
Wednesday to Friday: 11:00 to 14:30 on sunny days
Saturday and Sunday: 08:30 to 14:00
Location: Campus Central (below Macrobert Arts Centre)
Around the world at Haldane's offers you a choice of street food from around the world plus our curry corner, chicken kitchen and salad market.
Haldane's is also where you can benefit from our Grub's Up meal deals .
Haldanes opening hours
Haldane's is closed for the summer and will reopen in September.
Location: Queen's Court
Grab a bite to eat from our very own food truck on campus.
Currently serving a range of street food.
Our Hawker menu is not to be missed!
Hawker opening hours
Hawker is open on select dates for events.
Location: Sports Centre
Nourish in Sport offers a range of hot and cold drinks and food items throughout the day, to suit all appetites.
Whether it’s pre- or post-workout or just a relaxing lunch or coffee with friends, Nourish features freshly prepared daily specials as well as grab-and-go eats, a deli bar with salad, wrap or sandwich options and a smoothie station.
Nourish opening hours
Monday to Friday: 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday and Sunday: 08:00 to 18:00
Location: Pathfoot Building
With foods from around the world, staff, students and guests can enjoy hot dishes including Mexican on Mondays, traditional on Tuesdays, curries on Wednesdays, Tastes of Asia on Thursdays, and chip shop Fridays.
If you are looking for something less filling, you can choose made-to-order sandwiches, wraps, and salads from our salad and deli bar daily.
At Pathfood, you can sit and enjoy your lunch with views of the Wallace Monument and Stirling Castle.
Pathfood opening hours
Pathfood will be closed from 7 April and will re-open in September 2025.
Location: Willow Court
A place to meet with friends, enjoy a game of pool or table foosball, watch your favourite sport or chill out.
Refresh opening hours
Refresh is currently closed for the summer.
Location: Campus Central
Scran offers a wide range of breakfast, lunch, dinner and snack options including freshly baked pizzas and a deli bar to build your own salads and wraps.
Enjoy barista coffee and cold drinks as well as an extensive range of hot grab and go items.
Scran opening hours
Monday to Friday: 08:00 to 19:00 Saturday and Sunday: 10:00 to 19:00
The place to go for all things plant-based!
With vegan breakfast, lunch and snack options available throughout the day, in addition to speciality coffees and drinks and a range of vegan sweet treats.
For lunch, choose from the V-go vegan deli bar, a wide range of vegan hot and cold grab-and-go items, fresh homemade soup or loaded baked potatoes.
SUP opening hours
Monday to Friday: 08:00 to 15:00
Located in the Pathfoot Building, the Pod is a great place to grab a barista beverage.
You can also choose from a wide range of hot and cold food items, including hot specials such as pasta and curry pots, savoury pastries as well as wraps, sandwiches and fruit – everything you need for lunch.
The Pod opening hours
Monday to Friday: 8:00 to 14:30
Location: INTO Building
Ramen, rice bowls, sides and sushi are all available from Umami, choose from five different Ramen including crispy chilli beef and Vietnamese pho or vegetable dumplings and miso broth.
There are five rice bowl options too including crispy Katsu chicken, satay chicken skewers and crispy chilli beef plus a range of delicious sides.
Try the sushi station with a choice of nigiri and California sushi rolls with all the toppings!
Umami opening hours
Umami is closed from 21 April and will reopen in September 2025.
Visit Venue based in the Students' Union for wraps, loaded fries, burgers, tacos, and salads including plant-based options.
Venue opening hours
Venue is closed from Monday 7 April, and will re-open September 2025.
Events held in Venue are promoted via the Union or the societies and sports clubs hosting events.
Visit the Students’ Union website for more info or email theunion@stir.ac.uk .
We are proud to partner with We Love Coffee, a Scottish, family-owned coffee roaster that puts social responsibility and the environment at the heart of everything they do.
The We Love Coffee shop is the place to visit for delicious coffee, a Macha or Chai tea, a range of other hot and cold beverages, tasty sweet treats, and savoury items.
We Love Coffee opening hours
We Love Coffee is now closed over the summer.
Enjoy breakfast, lunch and dinner in the hotel bar or Abbey Craig restaurant.
Menus are seasonal, with ingredients locally sourced.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/favourites/shared:
When someone shares their favourite items with you, they'll appear here.
You can choose to add them to your own list of favourites .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/find-your-residence:
Find the accommodation that best suits your needs.
If you are a visiting or exchange student please go to our visitor accommodation page to see your options.
Price per week (choose your maximum price)

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/contact-us/complaints:
The University seeks to consistently deliver an excellent student experience and high-quality service provision within its broader community.
We recognise however that situations may occasionally arise where a member of the University community feels that the level of service they have received has not met expectations.
Our Complaints Handling Procedure sets out the process that the University follows where a complaint is received.
It reflects the University’s commitment to: dealing effectively with complaints; seeking to resolve issues of dissatisfaction as close to the initial point of contact as possible: and where appropriate, conducting thorough and fair investigations so that robust decisions can be made on the outcomes of complaints.
Universities in Scotland are all required to operate The Scottish Higher Education Model Complaints Handling Procedure published by the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman (SPSO).
The University of Stirling Complaints Handling Procedure has therefore been developed in line with this.
The procedure involves up to two stages.
Seeks to resolve straightforward complaints swiftly and effectively at the source of the concern or issue.
Appropriate where a complainant is dissatisfied with the outcome of frontline response, or where frontline response is not possible or appropriate due to the complexity or seriousness of the case.
These two stages represent the full scope of the University’s procedure.
Where a complainant remains dissatisfied at the conclusion of the University’s complaints process, a request can be made to the SPSO for an independent review the complaint.
The SPSO is the final stage for complaints about universities in Scotland.
If you are considering making a complaint to the University, please first:
If a complaint cannot be resolved at Stage One, please contact us at complaints@stir.ac.uk .
If you are able to, please complete the University of Stirling Complaint Form and email it to us.
However if this is not possible, please contact us and we will be pleased to help.
The Unacceptable Behaviours and Actions Policy accompanies the Complaints Handling Procedure.
You can access our latest annual report on complaints handling here:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services/policy-and-planning/legal-compliance/freedom-of-information:
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (FOI) aims to increase openness and accountability in government and the public sector by ensuring that people have the right to access information held by Scottish public authorities.
The Act places obligations on the University to respond to requests for information and to adopt and maintain a publication scheme.
The University is also subject to the Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004 (EIR) which allows public access to environmental information.
The links below provide further details about Freedom of Information and the Environmental Information regulations.
The University routinely publishes a significant amount of information in its Publication Scheme.
If you are seeking information from the University you should check first to see if this information is already available via our Publication Scheme .
If you would like to make a Freedom of Information request or request Environmental Information from the University please see the guidance under accessing information .
If you would like information in relation to Procurement and FOI please download our Procurement Guide .
The following guidance is for staff who may receive requests for information:
The University of Stirling is committed to complying with requests for information and to foster a culture of openness and transparency.
The University also believes it is in everyone’s interest to resolve complaints as quickly as possible and within the time period prescribed in the legislation.
In the event that someone is dissatisfied with the way their request has been dealt with they are entitled to ask the University to review its actions and decisions.
Details are in the following documents:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services/policy-and-planning/legal-compliance/accessing-information:
So far as is possible, the University of Stirling wishes to provide members of the public with any information they need that is held by the University.
The University is committed to promoting public understanding and awareness of its role and activities through the publication of all relevant information.
It will also make every effort to provide, where practical and permissible, additional information to members of the public in cases where routinely published information does not provide them with the information they require.
Under the terms of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002, individuals have a number of rights with regard to obtaining information held by the University.
Under the terms of the UK GDPR, you have the right to ask the University for any information held about you as an individual.
If you wish to make an enquiry about data that relates to yourself, then contact the Data Protection Unit, University of Stirling, FK9 4LA (tel.
01786 466670; email data.protection@stir.ac.uk ).
Include the following information in your request:
The University may ask for evidence of your identity.
Current staff and students are advised to submit their requests from their official University email address.
In most cases we will respond to your request within one month.
If your request is particularly complex we may have to extend this time by a maximum of a further two months but in this case we will inform you and explain the reasons for the delay.
The University will not respond to any requests from third-party SAR platforms.
Under the terms of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 you also have the right to ask the University to provide you with any information held by the University.
For example, you may wish to see the minutes of a particular meeting, or obtain standard information about student numbers.
The Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004 also entitle you to have access to certain environmental information.
The University already makes public large quantities of the information that it holds, and a description of all that we publish is available in our Publication Scheme or from the FOI Unit.
Before submitting any request you are advised to check the University’s Publication Scheme to determine whether the information you require is already available.
If you wish to make an enquiry about information held by the University which does not seem to be already available, then write or email to:
The FOI Unit University of Stirling Stirling FK9 4LA
or foiunit@stir.ac.uk .
When we receive your request we shall instigate a search for the information you need.
If we cannot determine exactly what information you require, we shall contact you as soon as possible to clarify your request.
If we already publish the information you require, we shall send you details of how to find the information.
In all other cases, the information you need will be located and provided to you.
Some information may be exempt from your access.
Should that be the case, we will provide what information we can and also provide reasons why other information has not been released to you.
We may need to charge a fee to cover the costs of our search and any copying.
Until a fee is received, the information you require will not be released to you.
In such cases where we do not provide all the information you seek or require payment of a fee, we will inform you of your rights of review and appeal.
Details about how charges for Freedom of Information and Environmental Information requests are calculated are in the following document:
April 2019

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/university-open-days:
University of Stirling Open Days let you explore our beautiful campus, check out our diverse range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses and spend invaluable time with staff and students to get a taste of what life as a Stirling student is really like.
Our next on-campus Undergraduate Open Days take place in September and November 2025.
Book your place now.
See what happens at our undergraduate on-campus open days .
Join our online information sessions on Wednesday 8 October from 10:00-17:00 to learn more about what it’s like to be a student at the University of Stirling.
We’ll take you through everything from advice on applying to funding your studies, and you'll hear from current students about living and studying at Stirling.
Details of our next on-campus Postgraduate Open Day will be available soon.
Register for updates and we'll let you know when booking is available.
Find out more about our Postgraduate Open Days .
Book now for our sessions in October 2025.
We take you through everything from advice on studying with us, the support we provide and preparing for your career after graduating.
You can sign up for all the sessions or just the ones that interest you.
Stay on campus for just £85, all year round at the Stirling Court Hotel.
The offer includes: Classic double or twin room for two people, full Scottish breakfast for two, free parking, free Wi-Fi, plus complimentary use of the University gym and swimming pool.
To take advantage of this exclusive offer, call 01786 466000 or book online quoting FAM75 for £85 bed and breakfast.
Offer subject to availability.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/spotlight-on-ref-2021:
The results of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 – an independent appraisal of the quality of research conducted by all UK universities – also reported that more than 80% of Stirling's research is either world leading or internationally excellent.
The REF 2021 results underline the positive impact the University’s research has in tackling real-world challenges, such as climate change, food security and an ageing population.
Between 2014 and 2021, the University improved in each of the three pillars of REF assessment – outputs, impact and environment.
"This important independent recognition underlines our commitment to use our innovative and interdisciplinary research to address the needs of society and reflects the hard work and dedication of our staff who ensure purpose and impact is at the centre of everything we do.
As we look to the future, we will continue to build on the progress we have made.
Excellent opportunities lie ahead for the University, including those presented by the multi-million-pound investment in economic and social improvement, based on University-led research, enabled through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal."
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac, Principal and Vice-Chancellor
1st in the UK
for research impact in Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science
Top 15 in the UK
for research impact in Geography and Environmental Studies
3rd in Scotland
for overall research in Social Work and Social Policy
Our research brings together a vast mix of skills, from doctors and nurses to economists, psychologists, social workers and artists – all working towards a common goal of promoting better wellbeing and quality of life.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/postgraduate-open-day:
Our Postgraduate Open Days give you the perfect opportunity to find out more about studying at Stirling.
You’ll have the chance to meet our staff, ask questions and discover our amazing campus and facilities.
As well as holding regular Postgraduate Open Days on campus, we also host a regular series of webinars.
Some webinars cover general topics, such as the application process or life in Stirling, while others focus on specific courses or areas of study and give you the chance to talk direct to teaching staff.
Join us in-person and explore our amazing campus facilities and beautiful surroundings.
Our on-campus Open Day will give you a chance to attend presentations, meet staff, visit accommodation and much more.
Watch our series of on-demand online information sessions for postgraduate students to learn more about what it’s like to be a student at the University of Stirling.
The sessions take you through everything from advice on studying with us, the support we provide and preparing for your career after graduating.
Sessions include:
If you've got any questions, don't hesitate to get in touch .
Coming to an Open Day on campus?
Find out more about getting here .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate-open-days/what-happens-at-an-on-campus-open-day:
An Undergraduate Open Day is an excellent opportunity to find out about life and study at the University of Stirling.
So what happens on our Open Days?
How can you make the most of your day?
Throughout the day, you’ll have the opportunity to explore our campus and facilities.
You can learn more about our academic courses and speak to our lecturers and current students.
A full programme will be available to download shortly before the Open Day, so make sure you come back and check our website for further updates.
Once you arrive on campus you'll go to our check-in desk.
Register and pick up your Open Day pack.
Open Day runs from 09:00 to 15:00, the registration desk opens at 08:45.
We’ve got a range of stands where you can talk to staff from different departments and partner organisations including:
The stands will be open from 09:00 to 15:00.
Explore all aspects of the campus with those who know it best – our student ambassadors!
There’s no need to book, just turn up at the tour collection point.
There are three different tours you can go on:
Many of our subject areas also do tours of teaching facilities.
We organise practical information sessions to help you make the most of your day.
Find out more about studying at the University of Stirling, including information on course structures, University facilities and support for students.
Find out more about the academic subjects that interest you by visiting our Academic Showcase where you can talk to members of staff and current students.
You can also go to presentations delivered by each subject area.
Prepare for our open day by learning more about the University and thinking about what you want to find out about student life at Stirling.
Make sure you’ve booked so we know you are coming.
Have a look at our undergraduate courses to find out what we can offer you.
You can find out about things like degree flexibility, entry requirements and funding.
Plan your travel .
Train fares are more expensive if you don’t book in advance.
You can follow us on social media for information about our Open Days.
We are on Facebook , Instagram , X , Linkedin , YouTube and Tik Tok .
Find out more on our blog: How to prepare for Undergraduate Open Day
Open Days can be busy.
Prioritise the talks and tours that align with your interests, especially those related to your chosen course.
Don't be afraid to ask questions.
Our student ambassadors and academics are here to help you.
Don’t overlook the essential parts of student living.
We’ve got talks and stalls on things like accommodation, funding and your wellbeing.
Explore our facilities.
Check out the library, labs, sports facilities, and other areas relevant to your studies.
If you’ve got time, have a look around the surrounding area.
You can find out more about Stirling as a city .
Keep an eye on our social media for updates on the day.
There can be a lot of information at Open Day.
Feel free to get in touch if you thought of further questions since the day, or you're still not sure about things.
You can speak to our Live Chat, email us on admissions@stir.ac.uk or drop us a message on our social media.
Find out more on our blog: What happens after you attend a university open day?
It can be a busy day so make sure you take a break and sample some of our on-campus eateries.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate-open-days/guide-to-open-day-for-parents-and-guardians:
Going to university can be a big step, not only for students, but for their families and supporters as well.
Our Open Days give you the chance to see the University for yourself and get the answers to any questions you may have.
Plan your day in advance
If you are attending an on-campus Open Day, check out our getting here pages so that you can plan your journey to the University.
Try to get here early as it can get busy.
Our on-the-day programme is always available in advance so you can work out how to get the most from the day.
We’ve got information and subject presentations, tours of the campus, academic showcases and information stands.
Make sure you put in time for some lunch to have a rest and sample some of our eateries.
Attend our “Parents and Guardians Survival Session”
For parents attending an on-campus Open Day, this is our tailored session just for you.
We’ll take you through everything you need to know, including:
Ask all the questions you can
Whether you are attending our on-campus or virtual Open Days, our friendly staff will be available to answer any questions you have around things like entry requirements, applying to the University, our courses and student life.
Write down any questions you have beforehand.
It’s also a good idea to take some notes on the day so you don’t forget any key information.
At our on-campus Open Day, you can approach our staff and students at the information stands throughout the day.
We recommend speaking our student ambassadors.
They’re all current students so can give you first-hand info about student life at Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/events/webinars/virtual-undergraduate-open-day:
Wednesday 8 October 2025, 10:00-17:00 (BST)
Learn more about what it’s like to be a student at Stirling.
At our Virtual Undergraduate Open Day we’ll take you through everything from advice on applying to funding your studies.
Speak to our staff and hear from current students about living and studying at Stirling.
Book your place for each session.
You can sign up for all sessions or just the ones that interest you.
Join our Head of UK and EU Recruitment, Gemma Connell, for an engaging introduction to the University of Stirling.
You’ll explore why Stirling is an exceptional place to study, live, and prepare for your future.
Hear from current students about their experiences, uncover the opportunities waiting for you, and get answers to your questions.
Emily Abel, Student Recruitment Officer, will help you navigate the application process for our undergraduate courses.
You’ll get expert advice on crafting a standout UCAS personal statement.
For international students, Ali will also be sharing tips on how to apply through systems like the Common Application.
Meet our International Recruitment Team and learn more about undergraduate studies at the University of Stirling as an international student.
Ask questions and learn about what it’s like to study with us, the application process and funding opportunities.
Join Euan Angus, Student Recruitment Manager, for this essential session on tuition fees and funding for undergraduate students from the UK (Scotland, England, Northern Ireland, and Wales).
Learn about tuition fee options, how to apply for government funding, and the scholarships available to support your studies.
Join Student Support and Accommodation teams to learn more about the support available to you during your studies and the options we offer if you would like to stay in University-managed housing.
We’ll cover the wide range of student support services available, from wellbeing and academic guidance to financial advice and career support.
David Bond, Head of Performance Sport, will talk about getting involved in sport during your time at the University of Stirling: as a performance athlete, part of a student-led team or a member of the gym.
You'll also hear from our Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport to learn more about our Sports courses.
We have a range of safe and affordable accommodation options on our beautiful campus, as well as easily-accessible off-campus residences.
Our dedicated team will be on hand to help you feel safe, happy and right at home.
Our beautiful 330-acre campus has iconic new sports facilities as well as fantastic social, learning, study and green spaces.
On-site facilities also include a theatre, cinema, cafés, pharmacy, supermarket and the Students' Union.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
To apply for a full-time undergraduate degree, you should apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
You can also view our application options for January and part-time entry, Forth Valley College degrees and international students .
Use our course search to find your ideal course.
You can also browse our range of subjects if you don't yet know what you want to study.
Go to the UCAS Hub and complete the registration questions.
Enter the year you want to start your course and that you're undertaking ‘Undergraduate’ level of study.
You’ll go to your UCAS Hub dashboard, where you should click on the tile called ‘Your application’.
Click ‘Start’ to begin your application.
You can apply for up to five courses on your application.
There’s no need to rank your choices, as universities don’t see your other choices.
You don’t need to use all five choices and you can apply for several courses at the same university.
UCAS has detailed advice on how to fill out your application.
A personal statement generally takes the form of a short, reflective piece outlining why you've applied for your chosen course, and why you believe we should offer you a place to study on that course.
See our guide to help you write a personal statement that'll make you shine.
For entry in 2025, you can submit your UCAS application from 3 September 2024.
The deadline for applying is 29 January 2025 .
Make sure you use the correct UCAS codes.
Our UCAS name is STIRL and our UCAS institution code is S75 .
UCAS course codes are found on our course pages.
The UCAS application fee for 2025 is £28.50 for up to five course choices.
Use UCAS Hub to see any offers as soon as they’re made.
You'll get an email from us giving you access to our Applicant Portal within a few days of submitting your application.
If you’re applying for a Nursing or Paramedic Science course, you’ll need to attend an interview.
Find out more on the Adult Nursing course page, the Mental Health Nursing page or the Paramedic Science course page .
An interview is also part of the application process for the degree in Sports Studies, Physical Education and Professional Education .
If you’re a Social Work degree applicant and your UCAS application is successful, you will be asked to submit an additional piece of written work.
Learn more about the Social Work application process .
Our Admissions team will deal with your application to the University of Stirling.
Find out more about how we make decisions on your application and how to deal with any offers you're made.
For international students and students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland there’s an option to start your degree in January on some of our courses.
Applications for January entry must be made directly to the University and not through UCAS.
See what courses are available and apply .
This is an option on some undergraduate courses.
Part-time study is not available for those who require a visa.
For part-time study starting in September or January, you need to apply to us directly .
All students can apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) for September entry but if you only want to apply to the University of Stirling, then you can apply directly .
However, you must not use UCAS and a direct entry application form for the same entry point.
If you have pre-settled or settled status living in Scotland or the UK, you may be eligible for “Home/Scottish” or “Rest of UK” (RUK) fee status.
Fee status is assigned when you submit your application, and this can be checked with our Admissions team if you feel it is incorrect.
For EU students who have a “Home/Scottish” fee status, all applications for September entry must be made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
If you’re from the USA and you’re liable to pay tuition fees at the International rate.
If you’re not applying through UCAS or direct to us, then you can apply through the Common Application for September entry.
This applies only to the following degrees delivered jointly with Forth Valley College:
If you would like to apply only for one of these integrated degree courses, you can use our direct application form (instead of completing a UCAS application for multiple course choices).
Email us at admissions@stir.ac.uk with the name of the course you want to apply for, and we will send you a link to the direct application form.
We can also help you to complete the form if you need.
If you would like further information or guidance, please contact Forth Valley College’s University Partnership Officer, Lisa Baxter at lisa.baxter@forthvalley.ac.uk .
We're happy to consider applications from students who may wish to defer their entry for a year.
You should make deferred applications through UCAS by the 2023 deadline for entry in September 2024.
Some of our courses offer Advanced Entry routes that enable students to gain exemption from Year 1 of study and go directly into Year 2.
For students from England, Northern Ireland and Wales or International students, that means for some degrees you could complete your studies in three years.
Advanced Entry is not available on all courses, and entry requirements may vary.
For more information, please have a look at the relevant course page or contact our Admissions team at admissions@stir.ac.uk .
We welcome applications via UCAS from HNC and HND students for advanced entry into Year 2 or Year 3 of their chosen degree courses where possible.
College students can find more information on our articulation pages .
Other UK students can get in touch with the admissions team.
Transfer applicants should apply via UCAS according to application deadline dates.
Important information for applicants
Get details of important aspects of studying at the University of Stirling including student terms and conditions and our admissions policy.
Universities Scotland fairness guarantee
The University is committed to ensuring fairness to those applying to study at Stirling in line with Universities Scotland guarantee of fairness when applying to a University in Scotland.
Universities Scotland guide for disabled applicants
Universities Scotland has produced a new guide to help disabled learners better navigate and understand the application process to university in Scotland.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/entry-requirements:
Each student needs to meet course-specific entry requirements which you can check on our course pages .
See the different types of UK and Republic of Ireland qualifications we accept for entry onto our undergraduate degree courses.
View the international qualifications we accept for undergraduate courses.
If English is not your first language, you must also provide evidence of your English language skills.
Widening access students may be eligible for an adjusted offer based on the minimum entry requirements for a course.
See if you are eligible.
Some of our courses offer advanced entry routes that enable students to gain exemption from Year 1 of study and go directly into Year 2 or sometimes 3.
For more information, please have a look at the relevant course page or contact our Admissions and Access Team at admissions@stir.ac.uk .
We provide tailored support for HNC and HND students, including advice on routes and practical advice and guidance through your transition into university.
You can come into Year 1 or, for some degrees, you might be able to come into Year 2 or 3 (advanced entry).
This means if you’ve completed an HNC or HND at college, you could be eligible for advanced entry by simply changing the year of entry on your application form.
Not all of our courses have advanced entry, so always check with us before you apply.
You can find out if you're able to get advanced entry by using our articulation finder .
If you are currently at college and thinking about what to do next, Pathways can help you to see what is available.
For more information, visit the Pathways website ,
We award credit on admission for certain qualifications gained before coming to Stirling which means you may be able to shorten the length of time at University to get a degree.
See what credit can be given for previous qualifications .
Admissions policy
Our admissions policy covers admission to both undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Any student being offered a place will be subject to the University's terms and conditions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/flexible-undergraduate-degrees:
Do you know exactly what you’d like to study at university?
At the University of Stirling, our flexible undergraduate degrees put you in control of developing your education.
You can try out all sorts of new subjects, combine the ones that interest you or even change your mind about what you’d like to graduate in.
This flexibility is available on many of our courses, while other more vocational degrees that are aimed at specific careers (e.g.
nursing, paramedic science, social work, education) do not follow the flexible structure.
Our undergraduate degrees are based on modules.
See how you'll be taught and assessed, and how you earn degree credits.
You can study many of our undergraduate courses part-time.
As a part-time student, you can progress at a pace which suits you – taking either one or two modules at a time and starting in September or January.
The University of Stirling is committed to enabling students from all backgrounds to achieve their full potential.
We believe that everyone has the potential to succeed and actively encourage applications from non-traditional groups.
There are a number of routes to degree study available depending on your background and what you want to study.
Our Access Courses are for anyone who wants to study an undergraduate degree course, but have few or no formal qualifications or have been out of full-time education for more than three years.
Successful completion of the course guarantees a place on a number of degree courses at the University of Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/advice-for-parents-and-carers:
Going to university can be a big step for students and their families – but it’s also an exciting time.
From the application process onwards, we regard all students as adults.
All correspondence is sent directly to the individual applicant or student.
Our services are always happy to speak to parents or guardians.
We’ll provide all the support and advice needed to make the most of university life.
Most students will apply via UCAS.
Find out all abut the application process so that you can support your student successfully through it.
All the important dates and deadlines for applications can be found on the UCAS website .
See more about our safety on campus and how we support students throughout their university journey.
Parents, carers, and supporters are welcome to attend our Open Days with their student.
These include campus tours, presentations and talks, and the chance to speak to University staff and current students.
See more about Open Days and other ways to visit us.
Find out more about fees, funding, budgeting and student finances.
Before arrival
Find out what students need to do before they arrive
First week
Help prepare students settle in to their new life
It might seem a long way off, but make sure you know what to do on that special day
Our range of secure and affordable accommodation includes over 2,000 rooms right on our beautiful campus, providing students with a home away from home.
Our 330-acre campus is a wonderful place to call home.
With an Olympic-sized swimming pool, on-site cinema, restaurants, and bars, it’s easy to see why we’ve earned a five-star rating for our facilities in the QS World Rankings.
Our graduates leave with well-rounded skills and experience, and are highly-sought by employers.
Our Careers Service gives students the support and advice they need for planning their career.
Our focus on you doesn’t stop when your student joins us.
Our Family Programme offers parents and families of existing students the opportunity to get involved and become part of our wider community.
Membership is free and includes:
We’ll also keep you up-to-date on University news, events and developments.
For more information please email alumni@stir.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/teachers-lecturers-and-careers-advisers:
Our recruitment team are here to help you in advising your students and supporting them through their journey to higher education.
We have a range of outreach on offer from presentations, to workshops and training, all can be tailored to suit the needs of your students.
We are also more than happy to attend events that you might be holding and we travel throughout the UK and beyond to deliver presentations and attend higher education events, so get in touch and let us know how we can help.
We have a range of workshops and presentations to help you and your students gain more knowledge about higher education.
Meet our recruitment team at the many different events they attend and run throughout the UK.
For any further information please get in touch with our recruitment team.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-participation:
If you want to study at university then we’ll do our absolute best to help you succeed regardless of your circumstances.
See the University of Stirling Widening Access Strategy and Student Carers Policy .
The Widening Participation staff support a wide range of different students who can be considered as coming from a widening participation background.
We work with students, and their parents, guardians and advisers, to help find the right route into university for them.
There are a number of different options available depending on your background and what you want to study.
As a widening access student, you are entitled to a range of support from the university.
You can access support throughout your university journey: as an enquirer, an applicant and during your time studying with us, right through to graduation and beyond.
There a number of types of students who we would consider to be a widening access student.
These include:
There is lots of help and advice we can give you, depending on where you’re from and what type of student you are.
University is an option that is open to everyone no matter who you are or where you come from.
Our college students make up a significant part of the student population at Stirling.
See how we can help you enter the University.
We're here to help anyone who is interested at studying at the University whatever your age and background.
We recognise that some care leavers may face different kinds of hurdles in coming to university.
Carers can sometimes face issues that can make the thought of coming to university daunting.
See the range of support available.
We provide support throughout the student journey for students who have no contact with their family or key family member.
We provide support to anyone from the armed forces community who wishes to study with us at the University of Stirling.
See the support available for refugee and asylum seeking students who are living in the UK.
Going to university is a big step for students.
Find out how we provide security and wellbeing for our students.
We can work with you to help your students through their journey to higher education.
See what financial support is available specifically for widening access students.
You probably have loads of questions about coming to university.
Just get in touch – we’re here to help.
UK and Europe Student Recruitment
2C3, Cottrell Building, Stirling, FK9 4LA
wp@stir.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/access-to-degree-studies:
The University of Stirling's Access courses offer the only campus-based part-time pathway to degree studies in the Forth Valley area.
Our Access courses are for anyone who wants to study an undergraduate degree course, but has few or no formal qualifications and has been out of full-time education for more than three years.
Successful completion of the course guarantees a place on a degree course at the University of Stirling.
Start date: 18 August 2025 Duration: Two semesters Mode of study: Part-time Delivery: On-campus classes on Monday, Wednesday or Thursday evenings Class time: Two 3-hour classes each week Independent study: 4-6 hours each week
Course fee: £575 (2025-26)
SAAS part-time fee grant may be available - find out more on the SAAS website .
You can select from three Access pathways leading to a wide variety of degrees at the University of Stirling.
Select a pathway to see entry requirements, course details and start dates.
Nursing students can go on to study Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing or Paramedic Science at Stirling.
Science students can go on to study most degrees with the Faculty of Natural Sciences and some with the University of Stirling Business School.
A gateway to degrees in Psychology, Education and Social Work as well as most degrees in Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities, Business and Management, Law, and Sport.
As well as learning subjects necessary to join a degree course, the Access courses offer tailored support, guidance and study strategies making sure you're ready for university study.
While studying with us, you will have full access to all of the University’s facilities and services, including the library, accessibility, inclusion and mental health services, career advice, student learning support and sports facilities.
All students are allocated a Personal Tutor to provide advice and support.
We are a supportive learning community where you can gain the academic skills and knowledge required to be a successful undergraduate student, with each course preparing you for degree study by teaching foundational subjects.
We welcome all applicants including:
To pass the Access course you will need to:
For progression on to Nursing, Paramedic Science or some Education courses you will also have to complete an interview or for Social Work there is a written task.
Students who complete the course successfully are guaranteed a place on an undergraduate course at the University of Stirling.
The University aims to offer you a place on your chosen degree, but it may not always be possible as some courses are competitive, with a limited number of places available.
You will be given support and advice when you apply for your undergraduate degree.
The Access course is recognised by many degree courses at other Scottish universities.
Please check admission policies with the university you want to go to before you accept a place on the University of Stirling’s Access course.
You'll receive top-class teaching and guidance from our academic specialists
Opportunities to spend time on campus and become part of the Stirling community
Access to all the University facilities and student support services
BA (Hons) Journalism and Politics
Shumela, 35, left school at the age of 14 with no formal qualifications and initially assumed that was the end of her academic journey.
“I always assumed an academic career was out of the question because of my lack of education.
The University’s Access program significantly changed that and, once I had completed it, I chose to stay at Stirling for the duration of my undergraduate degree."
As an Access student you will be able to use all the University student support services.
Our dedicated student support team is here to listen and offer guidance.
See more about the different services provided:
If you have any questions about the Access courses please email accessprogramme@stir.ac.uk .
You can also contact Yulia Lukyanova who is the Course Director.
Please email our Admissions Team at admissions@stir.ac.uk if you have specific questions about your qualifications or entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/support-wellbeing/student-support-services/accessibility-and-inclusion:
Serving the diverse needs of students, our Accessibility and Inclusion service offers support for anyone with physical and mobility difficulties, sensory impairments, mental health conditions and learning difficulties such as dyslexia.
We’re here to help with everything from exam arrangements to needs assessment for assistive technology.
We can also let you know about additional financial benefits you may be entitled to and connect you with a Student Adviser where appropriate.
To make an appointment with an Accessibility and Inclusion adviser and discuss your needs, you can contact us at the Student Services Hub.
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact us via contactSCOTLAND-BSL, the online British Sign Language video relay interpreting service.
I absolutely would not have managed to complete this degree without the help I received from the Accessibility and Inclusion Service.
Their flexibility and can-do approach allowed me opportunities I had never dreamed would be possible for me.
Former Student
Explore the campus and discuss your needs before starting at the University of Stirling.
Take a closer look at how our Accessibility and Inclusion service can assist you.
We support your learning with suitable software and facilities.
Find out more.
You may be eligible for additional funding to support your studies.
A guide to help disabled learners better navigate and understand the application process to university in Scotland.
Staff should go to the Supporting our Students SharePoint site to read more about our Accessibility and Inclusion Service and access helpful documentation.
The Accessibility and Inclusion Service came runner-up for Outstanding University Team, Service or Department at the University of Stirling's 2024 RATE (Recognising and Advancing Teaching Excellence) awards.
View the full list of RATE award winners .
We respect the privacy of everyone who uses our University Support Services.
Take a closer look at our full documentation on Confidentiality and Data Sharing.
Read statement

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-participation/coming-from-college:
College students make up a significant part of the student population at Stirling, and are studying on a whole range of different subjects.
They like the supportive environment, beautiful campus and friendly atmosphere that we're proud of.
They come from different backgrounds and use a range of different courses to come to university.
HNC and HND students can apply for year one of all of our degrees.
Depending on what you're studying at college you may qualify for advanced entry to university.
Access courses are designed specifically for anyone who has been out of education for a while and has few or no formal qualifications.
We'll consider other courses, including BTEC courses and highers programmes as qualifications to come to university.
Are you currently at college and thinking about what to do next?
Pathways can help you to see what is available.
The University of Stirling is a proud partner in Pathways, alongside a number of colleges and universities in the Forth Valley, Edinburgh and Lothians, Fife and the Borders.
For more information, visit the Pathways website , and get in touch with us if you have any questions!
Get in touch – it's as easy as that!
Our Student Recruitment Team are happy to advise college students and their families/supporters.
All contact is confidential and impartial and, with your permission, we'll help make the road into university easier.
We'll put you in contact with the right people and make sure you get the support you need.
+44 (0) 1786 467046
We can arrange individual visits for you and a friend, adviser or parent/guardian to let you see the campus, find out more about what we offer, and answer any questions you have.
You might want to find out more about a particular subject, get advice about your qualifications or find out what specific support you could receive.
You'll meet with one of the Student Recruitment Team, and if you like you can also book one of our campus tours which are led by our Student Ambassadors.
All you have to do is get in touch via email and we'll do the rest.
Open Days are a great way to find out more about everything to do with university life.
A range of information desks are available where you can speak to University staff, academics, and current students.
We have a dedicated information stand manned by our widening participation staff who can help you get the most out of the day.
If you've been made an offer then you'll be invited to an Offer Holder Day.
These are really useful for you and your family and friends even if you live locally or have visited the University campus before.
They give you time to ask staff and students about what it is like to study at Stirling and lets you find out all you need to know about the next steps in the application process.
If you're coming on your own to either of these events or are unsure of what to do on the day, get in touch once you've registered online and we'll make sure you get the most out of your visit.
Our friendly and welcoming team are your first point of contact for all kinds of support and they would be happy to talk to you at any time - even before you come to university.
Once you start studying at Stirling, can offer a range of services, including:
Finance - you should get in touch with our Money Advisers as soon as possible, even before you come to university.
They'll help you to budget, manage your money and let you know about any additional sources of finance you could get.
Accessibility and inclusion support - our advisers offer one-to-one information, support and guidance before you arrive and throughout your time at university to assess what you need and help you to access it.
Personal tutor - personal tutors help students feel part of the university community.
They're your first point of contact for everything from academic guidance to personal advice throughout your studies.
Student Learning Services – the Student Learning Services team help students to enhance their study skills, build your confidence in academic work and support students’ success in learning and teaching.
STEER - our peer mentoring programme in run by The Students' Union and offers one-to-one support from a current student for your first year of study.
Students’ Union - the Union provides support and guidance on issues ranging from academic to housing to finance; provided by trained staff who are on hand to talk through any issues you may face whilst at university.
If you'd like to discuss your options, or talk through what it might be like to come to university, contact our Student Recruitment Team who can provide advice online or, if you would prefer, arrange a visit.
Finance
The Student Awards Agency in Scotland support Scottish students through their higher education journey.
You can find more information on their website.
You can find more information on the SAAS website .
Students from outside of Scotland should talk to their finance provider in the first instance.
There’s lots of financial support, scholarship opportunities and specific bursaries through SAAS specifically for widening access students.
At the University of Stirling, we offer an extensive range of support services to help you fulfil your potential and make the most of your time studying with us.
Our team can support you right the way through to you starting at Stirling, so don’t hesitate to get in touch at any time.
This information will help to guide you through the next steps after applying.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-participation/advice-and-guidance-for-mature-students:
We're happy to help anyone who is interested at studying at university whatever your age and background.
As a mature student you have a wealth of valuable life and work experience that universities appreciate.
We can help with advice on the qualifications you need to get into a degree, what support you can get, how to apply and anything else that you might need to know about coming to university.
All you have to do is ask.
There are a lot of different courses you can use to get into university.
No one course is any better than the other, so you need to find the right course for you.
Some courses are taught in college, some at university, whilst others may be taught via distance learning like the Open University courses.
Some are taught during the day, some at night.
Some have costs attached whilst others might have financial support available.
If you are not sure what course to do then get in touch with our Student Recruitment Team to get some advice.
It's important to find out what the entry requirements are for the degree you want to study.
There might be a specific subject you have to study, or some extra requirements you need on top of your studies, and you need to know this before you decide what to study.
You can find out exactly what by looking at our course pages - you are looking to see if there is an 'essential subjects' section in the entry requirements.
Get in touch with the team to check if the access course you are looking at will meet our entry requirements, and if we can offer any extra advice on what you might need to support your application.
For most of our Science degrees we look for a specific subject at Higher with a B or above, or the equivalent - usually one of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
For some of the Environmental subjects we would also accept things like Environmental Science or Geography.
When you see 'or the equivalent', what we mean is we would accept something other than a Higher.
For instance if you are doing an access course or an HNC/HND then it should be science based, unless you already have a relevant higher.
There are also some qualifications that you specifically need that are tied into registration with the relevant professional bodies.
When you look for a course to study you should make sure that the one you choose includes all the relevant subjects.
N.B.
these qualifications are not included in the University's own access course so this might not be a suitable route for you if you want to become a teacher.
Degrees in these subjects also require work experience and knowledge of the profession.
There are a lot of different ways you can get into university; you just need to find the right one for you.
If you already have some qualifications and want to know if they meet our entry requirements then get in touch and we can check them for you.
If you don't have any qualifications, or don't think you have enough, there's a range of courses you can choose.
You can study Highers and A Levels at your local college.
Most of our entry requirements ask for a minimum of four Highers or three A Levels; Nursing requires three Highers.
The specific entry requirements differ for each degree so you should look at our course pages or get in touch before committing yourself to a specific course.
If you have old Highers or A Levels we might be able to accept them, however we also look for applicants to have studied something recently.
This is because studying is a learned skill and as time goes by you can forget how to do it.
This means that even if you already have the entry requirements for a specific course you might want to do some form of studying, even if it's just a short course or online module, just to get back into the habit.
Access courses are designed specifically for mature students who have few or no formal qualifications, and who've been out of formal education for some time.
They provide both the academic qualifications to get into a degree and tailored support, guidance and study skills throughout the course to make sure you're ready for university.
The university accepts applications from a range of approved access programmes.
Not all access courses are suitable for all our degrees so if you're not sure email our Recruitment Team , who can help you decide.
We don't currently accept NC courses on their own for entry to our degree courses.
We will look at any highers included within an NC course.
The University has an Access to Degree Studies programme for mature students.
There are three streams: -
This course might not be suitable for students who want to become Primary and Secondary teachers.
Get in touch if you want to use our access course to get into our Education degrees.
SWAP is a consortium of colleges and universities across Scotland working together to provide dedicated access courses for mature students.
SWAP courses are delivered in a range of Scotland’s colleges, and offer courses that lead on to a wide number of university degree programmes.
The University of Stirling is a member of both SWAP East and SWAP West and we warmly welcome applications from SWAP students.
For more information about courses in your area, and to see where a SWAP course can lead you, please go to the SWAP website .
If you have found a course that you are interested in, and you want to check that it would be suitable for entry onto one of our degree courses, get in touch with the team by emailing wp@stir.ac.uk .
We accept a number of access courses run by other universities.
Please contact our admissions team before deciding on a course to make sure we can accept it for your degree.
Ask a question
+44 (0) 1786 467044 admissions@stir.ac.uk
We accept Access to Degree Studies courses approved by the QAA.
Courses need to have a minimum of 60 credits, with at least 45 credits at QCF Level 3.
We ask students to get an average of 60% or above.
Please get in touch with our admissions team before deciding on a course to make sure we can accept it for your degree.
We welcome applications from HNC and HND students for entry into year one of our degrees.
Some HNC or HND courses might also get advanced entry into year two or year three of our degrees, depending on the course and the degree.
For more information, including advice on possible advanced entry routes, please go to our coming from college web pages .
We are happy to accept Open University credits.
Typically we look for a minimum of 60 credits at OU Level 1 in a related subject.
If you want to apply to one of our undergraduate degrees you must apply through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
If you're studying at college or on a university access course you should apply through them.
The lecturers on your course will tell you how.
If you're applying on your own, go to our ‘How to Apply’ section for more information .
If you want to apply to our access course go to our Access to Degree Studies page .
Our Student Recruitment Team are happy to advise mature students and their families/supporters.
We can arrange individual visits for you and a friend, adviser or family member to let you see the campus, find out more about what we offer, and answer any questions you have.
You'll meet with one of the Student Recruitment Team, and if you like you can also book onto one of our campus tours which are led by our Student Ambassadors.
Once you start studying at Stirling, Student Support Services can offer a range of services, including:
Accessibility and Inclusion support - our advisers offer one-to-one information, support and guidance before you arrive and throughout your time at university to assess what you need and help you to access it.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories/aislinn-mcaleer:
BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology
Northern Ireland
Aislinn is a 3 rd year student from Ballymena in Northern Ireland, studying Criminology and Sociology.
Aislinn became interested in the University of Stirling when Scottish Universities came to present at her school.
She says “I knew I’d like to move away from home to go to University; Stirling with its beautiful campus looked perfect and far enough away for me to feel independent.
I immediately went to my Careers Adviser and asked for a prospectus.
The reputation of the course was also really important to me; to know that Criminology is 1 st in Scotland and Top 10 in the UK made my decision very easy.”
Aislinn came to an Open Day at Stirling and found that it offered a welcoming community, just like home; a friendly Student Ambassador told her all about life at Stirling, and she immediately realised she wouldn’t be home sick.
Today Aislinn is a Student Ambassador herself, helping prospective students learn about our community, our facilities and what the experience is going to be like.
Aislinn spent her first year in student accommodation on campus and adds “I made 24 new friends straight away, from England, America, Scotland and Northern Ireland too!
I now live in the City and it’s like a mini Edinburgh, there’s everything you could want, but closer together.”

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories/thea-bronlund:
BA (Hons) Business Studies and Economics
Norway
Thea Brønlund swapped Scandinavia for Stirling studies four years ago.
Her international journey continues, with the new graduate poised to start a job with Bloomberg as a Global Market Data Analyst in London.
In her new post, she will provide the numbers, algorithms and analysis which makes Bloomberg the most sought-after financial data source in the world.
More than 80 percent of Stirling honours degree graduates this summer achieved either a first or 2:1.
Thea, who is fluent in four languages, will be taking happy memories of Stirling with her.
She said: “I chose the University of Stirling for many reasons.
I have always wanted to study abroad and it was recommended by a fellow Norwegian who had studied here.
The University has all the resources you need, including fantastic sport facilities, as well as great flexibility with your degree.
“I love the location, the natural setting, and the fact that it is a small place with historic elements.
It is convenient that it is so close to Glasgow and Edinburgh.
Overall, the student environment is amazing.”
Studying at Stirling gave Thea the opportunity to become a Saltire Scholar with the Saltire Foundation.
Through this programme, she secured a Project Management internship last summer with Envision Solar, an exciting global entrepreneurial company in San Diego, USA.
Back on the University campus and Thea completed a photography project through Stirling’s Professional Development and Practice module.
Students of Stirling saw Thea capture on camera 66 students of differing nationalities for a specially-curated University exhibition which gained great plaudits and has been developed into an online gallery.
She said: “Through my time in Stirling, I have gained friends from all over the world, which I will keep in touch with now that I graduate.
I love meeting friends from different cultures and learning about their ways.
I feel like my life is truly enriched from this experience and it has opened up new opportunities for the future.
“At University I really got to love economic data, which was one of the subjects I received the best grades in.
I am very analytical, and cannot wait to start my career in such a dynamic and multi-cultural company as Bloomberg.
They are based all over the world with opportunities to move around.
“Bloomberg has a young working environment and really takes care of their employees, starting with high wages and good benefits.
I feel like I am truly lucky and blessed about this opportunity and I believe that my time at the Saltire Foundation has helped me to land this full-time position.”

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/choosing-a-course:
We have 90 postgraduate degrees for you to choose from to achieve your career objectives and realise your life ambitions.
The difference between Masters degrees, Postgraduate Diplomas, and Postgraduate Certificates is the number of credits earned and the time taken to complete them.
All postgraduate taught courses are graded at Level 11 of the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework .
Most of our postgraduate students choose to pursue a Masters degree.
Stirling’s Masters courses are intensive programmes of study that typically take one year to complete.
Research-informed teaching consists of lectures, seminars and a wide range of practical assignments, research projects and work placements.
We offer a range of taught qualifications:
Our MSc and MA qualifications are typically undertaken by students who wish to develop an advanced subject knowledge in a particular area, or to change their subject of study following the completion of a Bachelor’s degree.
Generally, these qualifications are taught through seminars, lectures and project work, and are assessed by course work, exams and a dissertation.
An MRes qualification at Stirling offers advanced research methods and skills training in interdisciplinary and discipline specific contexts.
It’s ideal if you’re keen on pursuing a career in research or doctoral study.
Our MLitt is similar to a taught MA or MSc but is typically in literature, history or law.
Our LLM is a qualification that lets you specialise in a niche law subject, such as Environmental Policy or International Energy Law.
An MPP at Stirling is a professional qualification that offers essential training in policy analysis and how to help solve major societal issues.
Stirling’s MPH Master of Public Health (Online) is a multidisciplinary qualification designed to provide you with the advanced academic background required for leadership roles in public health.
We offer a range of postgraduate courses on a part-time basis, which enable you to study at a pace that best suits your lifestyle.
We also have a number of online distance learning courses that are available to students from all over the globe.
The University of Stirling International Study Centre provides a range of academic and English language programmes for students who do not yet meet the requirements for direct entry onto a postgraduate course.
These programmes will give you the knowledge and skills you need to progress to a wide range of postgraduate degrees at the University of Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/how-to-apply:
Watch our short video to find out how simple it is.
Before you start working on your application, you should check the entry requirements for your chosen course.
For most of our postgraduate degrees, we ask for a minimum of a second-class Honours degree or equivalent, but some courses also require a higher level of award, relevant work experience or prior knowledge within a related subject area.
Check our current entry requirements on your chosen course page .
If you’re an international student and don’t meet the required academic and English-language criteria for entry onto our degrees, we have a number of preparatory programmes offering progression to a wide range of postgraduate degrees at Stirling.
Find out more about our pathway programmes .
You can apply up to a year in advance of your course start date and we accept applications throughout the year.
Most of our courses start in September but we also have a range of Masters courses starting in January .
You can apply directly from our course pages or go directly to our online application form .
If you’re an international student you can also apply via an international representative .
You can find our international representatives on our country-specific pages .
You can also email our international recruitment team to see what representatives are in your area: sraagents@stir.ac.uk .
About to complete your undergraduate degree at Stirling?
If you are, you can log onto the portal and complete a fast-track application for your chosen course.
This route is only applicable to undergraduate students in their final year.
Already started an online application?
If you have already started an application but not yet submitted it, we will have sent you an email containing instructions on how to return to your saved information.
If you cannot find this email, find out how to return to your existing online application .
You are required to provide us with clear scanned or digital copies of your documents which show the full page including all four corners.
Although there is an option to apply first and then submit your evidence later, we would strongly advise that you apply and upload your documents at the same time as this will make for a much quicker decision on your application.
Once your application is received, you’ll get a confirmation email from the University’s Admissions Team containing a unique reference number.
Please quote this number when you contact us about any aspect of your application.
When submitting your application you can also opt-in to receive essential information about the University of Stirling.
We’ll be in touch via email with everything you’ll need to know about studying at Stirling, and you can change your mind at any time.
We aim to make a decision on your application as quickly as possible.
If you want to ask about the status of your application then please email postgraduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk quoting your student reference number.
We’ll get in touch with you when a decision has been made on your application.
If we contact you requesting additional evidence, please respond to us as soon as you can.
Once a decision has been made on your application, you will be sent an offer by email.
These are the responses you could receive:
If you receive an offer, congratulations!
Please respond to our offer as soon as you can, even if it’s only to let us know that you are declining.
You’ll be sent all of the information you need to access our Applicant Portal to respond to your offer.
Your Applicant Portal can also be used to upload documentation, apply for University accommodation and select fee payment options.
If you require an entry visa to the UK you’ll also be sent instructions on how to proceed.
You’ll receive a welcome email before you start your course which includes:
Students coming in to the UK from overseas will require a visa.
You will find information on the Government website on whether you need to apply for a visa.
If you do, you will need a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies) number, which is an electronic document containing a unique number for inclusion in your visa application.
You will need to have accepted your unconditional offer and paid your tuition fee deposit.
Once you have applied for your visa , you may be called for an interview.
They will want to know that your English is up to a suitable standard and may ask you questions about why you chose to study in the UK and at Stirling.
We always recommend that students from overseas apply as soon as they can, but CAS information is only issued three months before the start of the new academic year.
You will find some useful information for applicants from the UK Council for International Student Affairs .
If you are not able to take up your place there are a number of options available to you.
If you have paid your tuition fee deposit, then you will find details on requesting a refund under 4.3 .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/university-of-stirling-postgraduate-progression-courses:
University of Stirling International Study Centre provides progression courses for international postgraduate students.
These courses are designed for international students who have the potential to succeed, but do not yet meet the requirements for direct entry onto a postgraduate course at the University of Stirling.
Our pathways courses are offered in partnership with INTO.
A full-time academic programme that incorporates English language skills development, academic study skills, postgraduate research skills and subject-specific content.
If you successfully complete the programme and meet the required progression grades for entry to your selected degree course, you will be guaranteed entry onto designated postgraduate degree courses at the University of Stirling.
Our Pre-Masters programmes provide a direct route to a wide variety of Masters courses at the University of Stirling.
You will improve your English language skills, develop the necessary study and research skills, and become accustomed to living and studying in the UK in advance of your postgraduate degree.
A programme that leads to direct entry to postgraduate degree.
It’s an ideal preparation course before studying at Masters level, or if you’re looking to upgrade your qualifications in a relevant subject.
There are three pathways:
Go to the University of Stirling International Study Centre website for more information about these courses.
Our pre-sessional English courses are designed for international students who are already academically qualified, but either need to increase their English language level for entry to their postgraduate course.
There are online and on-campus courses available.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/create-your-personalised-prospectus:
Build your bespoke postgraduate guide in a few simple steps and start your Masters journey with Stirling today.
Complete the short form to customise your guide and ensure we only show you the information that matters to you most.
You’ll receive a download link straight to your inbox within moments.
By choosing digital, you’re also doing your bit for the planet.
As part of Stirling’s commitment to sustainability, your personalised digital guide saves on paper and delivery – helping to reduce our carbon footprint.
You’re about to make a very exciting and important decision about where you choose to study – and, with more than 90 taught and online Masters courses to choose from, we’re confident Stirling is the right university for you.
First select a start date then choose up to three subject areas you are
                            interested in:
Not sure what you want to study?
The personal information you provide above will be used to build your
                                personalised digital postgraduate prospectus.
We'll only contact you about the
                                prospectus itself unless you select to receive more information.
For more information on how the University
                                uses your personal data, please read our respective
                                privacy policies ( University of Stirling privacy policy ).
We'd love to keep in touch by sending you useful information about the
                                    University and our courses Select an option Yes, keep me up to date with everything I need to know
                                        about Stirling No, thank you
By submitting you are agreeing to the University's terms of use and privacy statement .
We'd love to keep in touch by sending you useful
                                information about the University and our courses.
I would like to be contacted
                                by:
You can unsubscribe at any time by emailing: study.stirling@stir.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/postgraduate-loans-and-funding:
Do you need help funding your postgraduate course?
Take a look at our wide range of postgraduate loans, scholarships and funding opportunities.
If you need financial assistance, the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) may be able to provide you with a loan to help cover tuition fees and living costs.
These loans are available to eligible Scottish students taking eligible full-time and part-time postgraduate courses.
This also includes eligible online courses.
Contact the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for further information and eligibility criteria.
Find out more about a postgraduate SAAS loan .
You may be eligible to fund your studies at the University of Stirling through the UK Government’s postgraduate loan scheme.
PhD students could get a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan to help with course fees and living costs.
These loans can be combined with funding from your university or other sources, but not with Research Council funding, NHS funding or other direct Government funding.
Find out more about postgraduate funding on the UK Government website .
You may be eligible to apply for a postgraduate loan from the Northern Ireland Executive’s Department for the Economy.
Applications can be made directly through Student Finance Northern Ireland .
Wales
You may be eligible to receive a combination of a grant and loan from the Welsh Government to cover the costs of your tuition fees and living costs.
PhD students can apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan.
You can apply online through Student Finance Wales .
Your employer may give you paid leave to pursue your Masters, or even pay for part of your tuition fees and associated costs.
If your chosen course is directly relevant to your work, it may be worth speaking with your employer.
The in-depth knowledge you learn on your course, could benefit your employer.
If you’re an international student you may be entitled to the Postgraduate International Excellence Scholarship.
If you’re an EU student you may be entitled to the EU Postgraduate Scholarship .
Students from the Republic of Ireland are classified as England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland, and will be eligible for our range of England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland scholarships.
There are external loan providers operating in various countries that can help international students fund their studies at the University of Stirling.
For example, Prodigy Finance offers loans covering tuition fees to international students pursuing Masters level study, subject to eligibility.
Interested students can apply directly to Prodigy Finance .
Students with loans are still required to pay their tuition fee deposit (apart from USA Federal Loans or full funding Canadian Provincial Loans).
If the loan payment is made directly to the University, as is the case with Prodigy Finance, we will refund the initial deposit payment upon receipt of full funding.
To be eligible for this refund, the deposit payment must be made via FlyWire or TransferMate.
The University of Stirling will only accept loan payments for student tuition fees.
Loans for living expenses cannot be processed through the University.
When considering loans to fund studies, we encourage students to carefully review repayment terms and interest rates.
Use our Scholarships search to discover more international student scholarships.
The University of Stirling is eligible to certify loan applications for the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) .
US students who are enrolled on a University of Stirling degree are eligible for loans and may borrow up to their calculated Cost of Attendance (provided by the university and updated for each year of a student’s programme).
This is in addition to being able to apply for scholarships.
See Postgraduate courses
Choose from more than 90 postgraduate courses designed to develop forward-thinking graduates.
Find a scholarship
Explore funding opportunities available to support and encourage ambitious students.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/online-learning/online-masters-degree-courses:
Take your career to the next level or in a new direction with an online Masters degree from a renowned UK university that has delivered online distance learning courses for over 30 years.
Our flexible online postgraduate degrees can connect you to the University of Stirling's facilities, resources and our global community of students and academics.
Find out what courses you can study online, and when you can begin your studies.
You will access your course materials through a virtual learning environment (VLE).
Depending on your Masters degree, you may have online lectures, seminars and guided independent reading.
The length of study depends on each individual online Masters course.
A full postgraduate degree could take 1-2 years or longer.
When you enrol for your online Postgraduate course, you will receive a digital student card which will grant you access to all the facilities available to all University of Stirling students, including:
University of Stirling online postgraduate degrees are incredibly flexible.
Most of our online Masters courses have live sessions.
You should attend these to make the most of your course, but most sessions will be recorded if you need to catch up.
Online postgraduate students are welcome to attend a graduation ceremony when they complete their course.
All our online postgraduate degrees are delivered by qualified academics, with the same attention to detail and quality that you would expect from our on-campus courses.
Having an online postgraduate degree will boost your CV just the same as a "traditional" on-campus qualification.
Postgraduate fees and funding
We also have flexible payment plans so you can pay for your course in full or in instalments.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/pathway-programmes:
If you’re an international student and don’t meet the required academic or English-language criteria for entry onto our degrees, we can help you prepare for academic success.
Located in the heart of our campus, the University of Stirling International Study Centre offers a range of academic and English language programmes.
These programmes will give you the knowledge and skills you need to progress to a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at the University of Stirling.
Our pathways programmes are offered in partnership with INTO.
Go to the International Study Centre website for more information on the academic and English language programmes available.
You’ll join a vibrant international community of students from every continent and learn in our state-of-the-art International Study Centre.
Our teaching style bridges the gap from study in your home country to the UK university system and equips you with the skills that will help you thrive on your university degree, ensuring better outcomes and prospects.
Small class sizes means more contact with teachers and our practical teaching style has helped students adapt to independent study.
As an International Study Centre student, you’ll have access to everything on our stunning 330-acre including clubs and societies, sports facilities and the on-campus accommodation .
Daniela and Zilong completed pathway programmes at University of Stirling International Study Centre.
Watch their graduation stories to see the benefits of studying at the University of Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories/chong-liu:
MSc Sustainable Aquaculture
China
A highlight of the Aquaculture course for me was visiting salmon farms on the west coast of Scotland.
This practical experience, along with meeting real aquaculture professionals, has not only improved my understanding of the field, but has also given me a network of industry links to help my career.
At the end of the day, it's not what we have learned in lectures that matters, but how we are going to use it to make a difference to the world.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories/graduation-stories/2018/jessica-cleary:
MSc Applied Social Research (Criminology)
With a passion for social justice and politics, Jessica Cleary is inspired to use her degree to help improve the lives of some of the most vulnerable people in society.
Jessica, from Falkirk, studied an undergraduate degree at Stirling after “falling in love with the campus and community” during an applicant day.
“I was swayed by the flexibility of the degree programme and the approachability of the staff and students, but primarily by the beauty of the campus and the fact it was all on one site,” Jessica explained.
On graduating, Jessica received funding for a PhD in criminology and opted first to embark on an MSc Applied Social Research (Criminology) at Stirling as it offered “essential” training in conducting independent, academically and ethical rigorous research.
She said: “The passion for critical criminology, the supportive nature of all the academics, and the quality of supervision within the department made it an easy decision.”
During her time at Stirling, Jessica served as Faculty Officer for Social Sciences; joined the Socialist Society; and volunteered at HMP Cornton Vale and Glenochil.
She recently completed an internship with the Scottish Centre for Criminal Justice Research, and has also started teaching at the University.
Reflecting on her Masters, the 23-year-old – who will spend the next three years at Stirling working on her PhD – added: “The teaching staff at Stirling offer exceptional guidance in how to critically think and become an engaged and independent researcher.
Moreover, the value of the pastoral support and advice you receive throughout your degree is invaluable.
“My time at Stirling was eye opening, memorable and rewarding.”

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-stories/ugonna-oleh:
MSc Artificial Intelligence
Nigeria
What first attracted you to choose the University of Stirling to study?
I chose to do the MSc Artificial Intelligence due to the course content and the calibre of lecturers who are involved in ground-breaking industry research.
I also loved Stirling's tagline, ‘Be the Difference’, as it reminds me that I am not just here to study but to be part of the change that my society needs.
The very beautiful and serene campus was an added incentive.
What are the benefits you found as a result of studying at Stirling?
Studying at Stirling has given me many new opportunities such as:
Away from studying I made use of the state-of-the-art sporting facilities and took a swimming class.
For someone who fears being in the water, I have made a lot of progress.
The University of Stirling has a very diverse university community and I have made friends from different nationalities and backgrounds.
There are many clubs and societies, so there is definitely something here for everyone.
What specific feature(s) did you like most about the course?
Having projects instead of exams for some of the modules.
It meant that we could apply what we have learnt in a real-life scenario.
The lecturers were very approachable and it was easy to reach out to them for help or assistance.
Industry lectures by industry experts helped keep us abreast of what was state-of-the-art in the industry and practical steps on how to tackle real world problems.
Feedback was acted upon, and we were able to see some changes to our course of study even before we left.
What advice would you give to prospective students considering coming to Stirling?
Stirling is where you want to be if you want to be the difference and get student-centred learning and a great campus experience.
Don’t be afraid to ask for help as there is always someone there.
The Student Support Services is always a good start.
Always give feedback, that is how things are made better.
Find your tribe.
From flatmates to clubs and societies, your Stirling tribe awaits.
Final thoughts?
When I was still an applicant, the portal had a heading ‘Ugonna, are you Stirling?’ and I knew I really wanted to be Stirling.
This last year I have come to know what it means to be Stirling, to "Be the Difference", to be part of the change and it has been everything I thought it would be and more.
I am proud to be Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/phd-subject-areas:
As a postgraduate researcher at the University of Stirling, you’ll be part of a vibrant and supportive research community that has a reputation for turning insight into impact.
Explore the subject areas below to see the wide range of disciplines you can conduct your research in, and learn more about the types of research degrees on offer to decide whether a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Master of Philosophy (MPhil) or Professional Doctorate is right for you.
The subject areas listed on this page represent broad topics we offer supervision in.
If you don’t see a subject area that is an exact match for your interests – or if you want to conduct interdisciplinary research – you should apply for the area that seems most relevant to your research proposal.
Our experts supervise PhD students in a huge range of topics, and we can reallocate applications to the most suitable subject area after you apply.
If you’d like to ask as a question about PhD study at Stirling, please get in touch .
To find out more about interdisciplinary research at Stirling, view our Research themes and programmes .
We also offer a range of Professional Doctorate courses that offer another path to Doctoral-level study in a range of fields.
Explore our Professional Doctorates:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/types-of-research-degrees:
Here at the University of Stirling, we’re all about choice.
Our research degrees give you the flexibility and freedom to carry out original quality research, supporting you to solve real-world problems.
You can also see a full list of the 50+ PhD subject areas we offer supervision in.
We offer Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees for students wanting to undertake a defined research project, or a suite of work that culminates in a thesis.
An MPhil qualification is typically shorter than a PhD, but is completed to the same academic quality.
Students often complete an MPhil degree within two years, and three to four years for a PhD.
To achieve the award of MPhil or PhD, students must demonstrate their ability to apply appropriate research methods to a specialist topic or question, and display a critical understanding of the key issues and debates in their chosen field.
The thesis may contain, or be the basis for, published peer-reviewed papers, and students will have the opportunity to publish during and after their degree.
Students undertaking these degrees will also be expected to complete a viva voce (oral examination), where they must present their work in front of a panel of experts and justify why their thesis makes a valuable contribution to the field.
A Professional Doctorate is a qualification that integrates professional and academic knowledge.
It’s designed for professionals who want to focus on a particular area in their field, and make a contribution to theory and practice through further study.
Courses comprise a taught element in the first year, followed by a significant period of independent research.
Professional Doctorates often take full-time students three to four years to complete, or six to eight years part-time.
These courses are generally delivered on a part-time basis to better suit working professionals, but in some cases, full-time courses may be available.
We offer a number of professional doctorates:
Why Stirling for postgraduate research?
Join our ground-breaking research community.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/why-stirling-for-postgraduate-research:
At Stirling, we’re proud of our commitment to equipping students with life-long career management and employability skills.
Five stars

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/how-to-apply-for-our-research-degrees:
If you’ve got the drive and the potential to join our ground-breaking research community here’s how you can apply for a research degree at the University of Stirling.
To help your application process, our general entry requirements for our research degree programmes are:
Follow these steps to apply for a research degree at Stirling.
Before applying for a research degree, it’s important that you have a clear idea of what you would like to research, what you hope to achieve, and how you plan to achieve it.
Your research proposal is your chance to lay out all of these details as part of the application process.
A research proposal should include a background, rationale and context as to why you want to undertake your research, as well as detailing clear aims and objectives.
The proposal should also include more detail about your expertise, methodology and how you will approach your study.
For guidance on how to produce a good research proposal, you can take a look at our guidance on writing a research proposal .
You’ll submit your research proposal as part of the online PhD application form.
Once you’re confident you have a good core idea for the research you’d like to carry out, you should identify the subject area your research will fall under.
Our PhD subject areas page shows the broad topics we offer supervision in, but we appreciate that every PhD is an original idea and may not sit neatly under a single subject area.
You should apply for the area that seems most relevant to your research proposal, and we can always reallocate applications to the most suitable subject area after you apply.
Before starting the application process, we recommend that you try to identify a supervisor who you would like to guide and mentor you during your studies.
By using our Find a Supervisor tool, you can search for members of staff operating in your chosen field and make contact with them to check their availability and discuss your research proposal.
You can still apply for a research degree without naming a supervisor in your application form, but making initial contact with one of our experts can be a helpful way to ensure your application is as strong as possible.
Use the apply link on any subject area page to start your PhD application.
The application form will ask you for a range of information and documentation, including your research proposal, how you plan to fund your studies, proof of qualifications, an academic reference and a CV.
If you’re applying for a PhD in English Studies, Publishing Studies, French, Linguistics, Religion, Spanish, Translation Studies, Global Cinema or Creative Writing, you’ll also be asked to upload a writing sample – see our supporting documents guidance for more information.
You can save your application form progress at any time, so even if you don’t have everything you need to hand right away, you can come back and fill in the blanks later.
If you meet the initial entry requirements, the Admissions Office will pass your application to Faculty for academic review.
You will also receive an email with details of how to access the applicant portal and track the progress of your application.
We look forward to hearing from you.
You can apply up to one year before you want to start your research degree.
We can accept completed applications up to just before the start of semester, but we advise early application, particularly from international applicants, to allow sufficient time for our decision and to arrange visas and travel to Scotland.
There are no deadlines as we consider applications throughout the year.
You can normally begin a research programme (PhD/MPhil) on the 1st of any month.
We recommend that international candidates who require a visa to study in the UK should find out more about how and when to apply.
Find out more about fees, funding and scholarship opportunities for research degrees.
Visit our visa information page to find out everything you need to know about visas and other related information for studying at the University of Stirling.
The Institute for Advanced Studies is here to help prospective and current students with their postgraduate research at Stirling.
For any queries, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/research-fees-funding:
You may want to think about options for funding your PhD and any associated living costs while you study.
Below are some examples of the kinds of PhD studentship packages that are available.
Our supervisors and support staff can help you develop and refine your proposal to match your chosen funding call.
If you’re interested in a postgraduate research course, you can find our tuition fee rates below.
Postgraduate fees are subject to change, so please check back regularly.
If you’re studying a PhD full time, fees will be payable for your first three years.
For subsequent years you’ll only pay an annual 'registration-only' fee.
Part-time PhD fees are payable over six years, followed by the annual 'registration-only' fee.
If you’re studying an MPhil full-time, fees are payable for your first two years, followed by an annual 'registration-only' fee.
Part-time MPhil fees are payable over four years, followed by the annual 'registration-only' fee.
Fees are charged each year and are also subject to change each year .
International PhD fees for 2022/23 onwards will be fixed at the point of entry, so you will be charged the same fee each year, based on when you started your programme.
The cost of the registration-only fee is displayed in the table below.
Fees for our Professional Doctorates can be found on the relevant course pages:
Are you a UK resident?
The UK Research Councils offer a range of studentship awards which cover tuition fees and associated living costs for 3 to 4 years.
If you’re an EU resident you can also apply for Research Council awards, but usually you will be eligible for awards covering tuition fees only and not associated living costs.
To find out if your research course is eligible for funding, contact the Research Council relevant to your chosen course:
If you're domiciled in England or Wales you may be eligible to apply for a doctoral loan from your regional body:
Loans can be combined with funding from your university or other sources, but not with Research Council funding, NHS funding or other direct Government funding.
More information is available via FindaPhD .
Some of our faculties offer teaching assistantships for research students, in return for undertaking part-time teaching duties.
If you take up this opportunity, you’ll receive a stipend to support you in your studies, and the amount of teaching will not normally exceed six hours per week.
To find out more, you should contact your Faculty .
If your degree is directly relevant to your work, you should think about speaking with your employer.
They may give you paid leave for study, or even pay for part of your tuition fees and associated costs.
Use our Scholarship Finder to see more funding opportunities

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/institute-for-advanced-studies:
The Institute for Advanced Studies supports our growing and thriving research community with resources and networking opportunities.
We’ll connect you with a global community of scholars, industry experts, leading academics and employers from a diverse range of interdisciplinary research areas.
We offer you access to a range of valuable resources that will assist you in your studies and research.
You’ll be able to:
The Institute for Advanced Studies organises a programme of skills development workshops, research seminars and support events that run throughout the year, giving you the opportunity to meet industry experts, researchers and visiting academics.
Our events enable you to build contacts, enhance your academic experience and find your place in our dynamic and ever-growing research community.
If you're interested in applying for a PhD at the University of Stirling, please explore these links.
Spark is our interdisciplinary, high-quality journal of postgraduate research.
We review and publish research from across all academic disciplines; encouraging the integration of disciplines, theoretical practices and data gathering.
We’re particularly interested in international perspectives on global themes and issues.
View the Spark website
If you have any general queries about the Institute for Advanced Studies, or about studying for a PhD at the University of Stirling, please get in touch with us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/institute-for-advanced-studies-studentships:
We're investing in the next generation of world-class researchers.
Our Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) Studentships represent a £3.6m investment by the University in doctoral research from 2023-2025, with over 30 interdisciplinary studentships awarded to date.
Applications are now closed for the third intake of IAS Studentships.
Thank you to everyone who submitted an expression of interest.
We will notify all applicants of the outcome by June 2025.
See how research by Stirling experts is impacting society and making a difference in the world.
Find out how our Institute for Advanced Studies supports our growing research community.
Find out what makes Stirling the perfect place for PhD study.
If you have any questions about our Institute for Advanced Studies PhD Studentships, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/supporting-information-for-professional-doctorates:
The University of Stirling has a range of professional doctoral programmes, a clinical doctorate and a PhD TESOL Research programme, which are part of our postgraduate research portfolio.
On this page, you'll find the specific requirement of each of these programmes.
Please make sure you have read and understood this information before starting your online application.
Course Director: Dr Marty Chamberlain – marty.chamberlain@stir.ac.uk
Our Doctor of Education is for senior education professionals seeking to enhance and utilise their research expertise.
Whatever your area of education – from schools, colleges and universities to professional, work-based and lifelong learning, or policy development – a Professional Doctorate will position you as a leader in your field.
Applicants should provide a commentary on their interest in research in education (1500-2000 words).
This can include a speculative appraisal of possible avenues of inquiry for the thesis stage and a reflection on why this programme is an important next step.
Candidates must give two references to provide evidence on the validity of qualifications and career progression, and experience as a professional in the field.
As part of your application, you must write a document called 'A Commentary on My Interest in Research in Education'.
This should be uploaded with the application form.
This document should include:
Course Director: Dr Kathleen Stoddart – k.m.stoddart@stir.ac.uk
Our Clinical Doctorate is the only one of its kind in Scotland.
It is tailored to the needs of nurses, midwives and allied health professionals.
The course is practice-focused and prepares you for leadership roles in the healthcare sector.
Clinical doctorate programme candidates are not expected to provide a full research proposal at the application stage.
You should provide an overview of your field of practice, your role within it and an indication of your research interests.
This should be uploaded as a separate document in the 'My documents' section of the application form.
Candidates should contact Dr Stoddart before submitting their application.
Our Doctor of Applied Social Research is designed to transform the way you think as a professional.
It makes sure you can make a powerful impact in your field.
If you're an experienced professional who wants to advance your expertise and broaden your career opportunities, this course is an ideal match.
From the outset, you'll gain high-quality research skills that can be applied in the workplace and refined through access to seminars and advanced training opportunities.
You'll also benefit from the guidance of our expert staff and your interaction with fellow professionals and executives from a range of social science backgrounds.
The course is highly flexible, and attendance is minimal so you can fit your studies around your career.
You'll also have the opportunity to fine-tune your doctorate based on your profession – choosing one of a range of available pathways.
The programme allows you to develop your current interests or others you complete modules in the early stage of the doctorate programme.
This allows for flexibility over your future thesis research.
Candidates should submit, in addition to the standard documentation:
Course Director: Dr Simona Hapca – simona.hapca@stir.ac.uk
The Data Science Doctorate programme focusses on an open problem of industrial interest to be investigated in collaboration with an industrial partner.
The topic can be in any aspect of Data Science with applications to, e.g.
finance, health, fintech, industrial processes, public administration, life sciences, … Professional Doctorate students can be working in any such company that will support them gaining a qualification while working on the identified problem.
Alternatively, students can establish a collaboration agreement with a company interested in the research project.
The Professional Doctorate consists of a thought key part in the first year, and the research collaboration project in the following two years.
An articulation with our MSc can guarantee entry to year two.
The MSc period can be used to establish a collaboration with an industrial partner for the continuation to the Professional Doctorate.
Previous qualifications and work experience can also be taken into consideration.
2nd-year entry is possible if you have an equivalent Masters qualification in computer science, data science or artificial intelligence.
If you are applying for 2nd-year entry, you must submit a research proposal and note your industrial supervisor.
Include this in your research proposal document.
Course Directors: Dr Lesley McGregor and Dr Vivien Swanson – l.m.mcgregor@stir.ac.uk | vivien.swanson@stir.ac.uk
Our Professional Doctorate Health Psychology is for psychologists with an MSc in health psychology who wish to work in health, healthcare or academia as an independent scientist-practitioner.
Health psychologists use psychology to promote health and well-being and prevent ill-health in many different contexts.
With this qualification, you will become a 'Health Psychologist' and be eligible for professional registration.
It is based on real-world placement practice, supervision and learning, and includes brief periods of teaching and workshops, as well as your doctoral-level research project.
You will study with a vibrant and experienced professional team of health psychologists and other researchers working in health and well-being at Stirling.
Candidates should contact the programme administrator, Nicola Hunt , with any questions and to request the Applicant Handbook, which outlines the application process.
You must submit a completed Placement and training plan .
Upload your completed plan in the 'My documents' section of the application form.
The Professional Doctorate award is also available for study via a two-year part-time top-up research doctorate route.
Applicants who already hold a doctoral-level (practitioner) qualification in Health Psychology via the British Psychological Society (QHP), and are eligible for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a 'Health Psychologist' can complete the research module for the award of the Professional Doctorate.
If you are applying for the Top-up Route, you should submit a full research proposal .
This doctoral programme in TESOL Research is designed for TESOL professionals who want to develop comprehensive knowledge and understanding of research design and research methods in TESOL and Applied Linguistics.
A PhD in TESOL Research will mark you out as an expert researcher in the field of teaching English to speakers of other languages.
It will equip you with the skills to understand complex issues, advance your expertise and widen your career opportunities.
This programme is particularly suitable for those who have completed an MA/MSc in these areas and for those who either have yet to settle on a research topic or who want to give their topic further consideration.
In the first year, as well as taking modules in research design and analysis, candidates complete a pilot study for their research project.
The thesis is then completed under the guidance of two expert supervisors.
In addition to the standard documentation, candidates should submit a personal statement which details (in up to 1000 words):
Upload this as a separate document in the 'My documents' section of the application form.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/information-for-current-postgraduate-research-students:
These pages contain information for our current postgraduate research students.
Read on to learn more about the administrative procedures you will be required to follow during your time here.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/why-stirling-for-postgraduate-research/career-development-and-employability:
At the University of Stirling, we’re proud of our commitment to equipping students with life-long career management and employability skills.
We work with our business and public sector partners to ensure that our postgraduate degrees will enhance your career employability.
96% of our graduates were in employment or further study 15 months after graduation ( Graduate Outcomes 2020-21, HESA ).
Our postgraduate courses offer you plenty of hands-on experience, career support and unique opportunities to work with businesses across the globe.
Our courses will help you progress to higher levels within many careers and professions.
Stirling’s Careers Service offers high-quality careers information, education and guidance, along with a range of resources to help you to make informed career decisions and develop life-long career management skills
At Stirling, one of our top priorities is to enhance your employability through top-quality education and cutting-edge research.
Everything you do while you’re studying with us is designed to help you build the skills to be the difference and be noticed by potential employers.
Our Institute for Advanced Studies runs a range of training and skills development courses and workshops designed around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
We also offer you the chance to take part in:
Alongside academic achievement and knowledge, employers are also looking for transferable skills, personal qualities and experience enhanced by postgraduate study.
Our postgraduate degrees incorporate activities that’ll help you with job applications and interview skills, including:
At Stirling, we know how important it is that you complement your academic study and research by developing these transferable skills.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/why-stirling-for-postgraduate-research/student-support:
A postgraduate research degree is a rewarding but major undertaking, requiring skill and commitment.
We provide a supportive, challenging, exciting and welcoming research environment to help you make the most of your study and your potential.
We’ve excellent facilities, services and support so you feel part of our vibrant postgraduate community.
You’ll work with leading academics who provide advice, guidance, direction and support.
Our central Student Support Services can help you with a variety of matters, including:
Find out about our support and wellbeing services available for all students .
The Institute for Advanced Studies is a resource hub supporting our postgraduate community.
It connects scholars, industry experts, leading academics and employers across many diverse research areas.
The School will help you to develop your research, learning and teaching skills and, crucially, your employability, within our interdisciplinary environment.
Placements, work-based learning, live research projects and talks from industry experts are just a few ways you’ll benefit from the Institute’s strong industry links.
We're here to nurture your research at the University of Stirling.
Excellence in Researcher Development is key to our research strategy.
We provide an excellent programme for researcher development, supporting researchers to develop their career at Stirling.
Our Careers Service provides guidance and resources that can help you make informed career decisions and develop skills that will help you manage your career.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/before-you-arrive:
We can’t wait to welcome you to the University of Stirling.
Here's the things you need to do in August and September before you arrive.
Sign up for our pre-arrival workshop programme Stirling Essentials .
It covers all the key aspects of what its like to study at university.
Complete our pre-arrival online modules .
After your place at Stirling is confirmed, your details will be moved from our Applicant Portal to the Student Portal.
This transfer happens between mid to late August.
Once you’ve been moved to the Student Portal, you’ll get an email from us called "Enrolment information".
You can then complete the next steps to create your timetable.
From 25 August online enrolment opens for undergraduate students .
Make sure to complete this as soon as you can.
Once you have completed enrolment, your timetable will be populated with details of lectures and other full class activities for those modules.
Group sessions such as seminars will not appear on your timetable until you've completed group sign up - this opens one week before the semester starts.
Make sure your vaccinations are up-to-date .
NHS Scotland advises all students to ensure they have received vaccines for:
Anyone with a weakened immune system or certain eligible health conditions may be offered the coronavirus vaccine.
Phone your GP to check if you've had all the recommended doses you're eligible for.
Your GP will check your records and advise if it's clinically appropriate for you to receive any vaccines or further doses.
For more information, visit the NHS Inform website .
Get set with the right tech and skills
To stay on top of your studies, you’ll need a laptop or computer - it’s essential for all our courses.
A phone, tablet, or Chromebook won't be suitable as they can’t run all the software you might need.
Not sure if your current laptop is good enough?
Check out what specs you need or what to buy .
There’s free Wi-Fi across campus, and you get access to Microsoft 365 (Outlook, Teams, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and more) to install on your own devices.
At uni, you’ll use different digital skills than you did at school.
Want to see how ready you are?
Head over to our Digital Skills Hub to check your current skills and learn what you’ll need to succeed.
Need help with tech stuff?
We’ve got support for that too.
See our IT guidance for new students .
Arrange your accommodation .
If you haven’t already sorted out accommodation, then check out your on- and off-campus options now.
Plan your travel to campus .
Don’t leave it to the last minute to work out how you’re getting here.
Follow us on social media.
Find out what’s happening around campus by following us on Instagram , TikTok , Facebook or X .
Students from China can also follow us on Weibo and WeChat .
Plan your finances.
Managing your money at university can be a challenge if you are away from home for the first time, managing SAAS or Student Finance payments (without spending the whole lot), or changing your employment to fit around your studies.
It is therefore essential to familiarise yourself with the living costs of being a student and plan ahead financially.
From 1 September online enrolment opens for postgraduate students.
1 to 5 September - attend Stirling Essentials one-hour workshops for new undergraduate students.
The run every day at 10:00 (BST).
8 to 12 September - attend Stirling Essentials one-hour workshops for new postgraduate students.
Complete group sign up.
This is when you choose group session times for some of your modules.
You will then see your complete timetable with all your lectures, seminars and tutorials.
8 September 2025, 10:00 (BST) - undergraduate students sign up.
15 September 2025, 10:00 (BST) - postgraduate students sign up.
See how to sign up for groups on our teaching timetables page .
Make a list of what to pack .
Read our handy list with suggestions of what you need to bring with you.
15 September - Semester starts for undergraduate students.
22 September - Semester starts for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/guide-to-your-first-week:
Starting university is a very exciting time, and there will be lots of things to do before you start classes.
That's why we've created a handy guide to help you navigate your way through your first weeks.
11 September: Move in to University-managed accommodation .
11 September: Welcome events and activities begin .
Attendance during Welcome is essential.
You'll get the information, support, and connections you need to make a confident start at Stirling.
You’ll also have induction activities timetabled during this period.
15 September: Semester starts for undergraduate students.
22 September: Semester starts for postgraduate students.
You'll be able to choose a date and time to move into your accommodation once you've completed the induction on the accommodation portal.
You'll then receive your arrivals paperwork.
This shows your key collection point and arrival time, and safety instructions for you to follow before, during and after your arrival day.
For student starting in September 2025 these are the key move in days:
Make the most of your first couple of weeks on campus by completing the following tasks on this handy checklist:
The Student Welcome and Support Hub is where you can get all the information and support you need to get started at the University of Stirling.
You'll be able to get help with enrolment and receiving your student ID card , support on visas and immigration, ask queries about finance and get help with setting up your IT equipment.
Student Support Services will be on hand to answer any other questions you have.
Want to ask questions about what it’s like being a new student at Stirling or how to access services and support?
Feeling a bit lost or overwhelmed or don’t know where to start to meet new people?
Why not ask another student?
Our Welcome and Look Out Student Assistants will be around offering listening spaces, signposting and shared experience.
Completed the pre-arrival online orientation workshops?
Great.
Now complete the short self-paced online courses on academic writing and tackling gender-based violence by week 3 of semester.
You'll earn a digital badge on completion of each online course.
Complete your Stirling Essentials arrival activities .
Read our full guidance on how to view your personalised timetable and how to sign up for seminars and other small group sessions:
Don't forget we have a full programme of on-campus and online events and activities to help you meet friends and settle into university life.
And the fun doesn't stop after Welcome week: our student life programme Be Connected continues throughout the semester with a wide range of enjoyable and informative activities.
Meet your teachers and classmates and find out how things work at our online and on-campus events.
You'll get essential information to help you settle in.
You'll find your course induction activities in your personalised timetable.
You’ll be allocated a personal tutor in the first week and their details will appear on your portal once you are fully enrolled.
They will be in touch to arrange to meet you in the first two weeks of semester.
Your tutor will be with you throughout your studies to offer advice and signpost help as required.
To access medical care you should be registered with a local doctor and dentist in the area where you live.
If you are living on campus the medical and dental centre on campus is open for new registrations.
We know that getting connected to the Wi-Fi is one of the first things you will want to do.
If you need help getting connected to Wi-Fi, then our Wi-Fi Wizards will be around to help you.
How to access Wi-Fi
On campus we offer a wide range of sports and exercise options whether you are an elite athlete or a complete beginner - everyone is welcome!
University is about finding your own way – but that doesn’t mean you have to go it alone.
Our student support team is here to listen and offer guidance.
You can access live chat in your student portal.
Get all the info about life on campus and in the city Stirling, from where the nearest supermarkets are, to what activities you can get involved in and what's on.
The first couple of weeks can be a very busy and confusing time, so here's the info you need to get started on your academic life.
All facilities are just a short walk from each other.
Use our map to see the best routes to take .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/events:
Your Stirling adventure starts here!
Welcome Week is your chance to jump in, try new things, and make friends.
With activities running all day and into the evening, there’s always something happening.
The Students’ Union provides a huge range of student activities including events, Societies and Sports teams, sustainability hub, the Green and Blue Space, and Community Garden.
Our student sport programme has opportunities for everyone to get involved and improve your mental and physical well-being.
There will be tours of our state-of-the-art facilities and taster sessions of different sports happening during welcome week.
You can keep up to date by joining our Undergraduate Offer Holders Facebook group , Postgraduate Offer Holders Facebook group or follow us on Instagram , TikTok , Facebook or X .
Induction and orientation support does not finish at the end of Welcome Week, we have a range of workshops, information sessions and activities to support you throughout semester.
We will be running study skills workshops throughout semester to help you prepare for university and to support your progress through the semester.
Discover our student life programme of events, resources and activities which carry on throughout semester.
Activities include exercise, cultural, fun and informative events where you can meet new friends, learn new skills and just enjoy yourself.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/studying-at-stirling:
The first couple of weeks at university can be a busy and confusing time for new students.
Here is all the information you need to get started at the University of Stirling.
Read on to find out what you need to do by when, what equipment you will need, what tools you will use, what you can expect from our teaching, and where to find help and support for your studies.
You must attend classes, engage with your studies and complete the work and assignments set.
How you learn at university may feel different to previous experiences of school or college.
Typically, your course is taught through lectures (large group sessions led by a tutor) and smaller group sessions such as seminars or tutorials.
Some subjects may also have lab time, fieldwork and work placements.
You're expected to check your timetable , so you know where and when your classes take place.
Your attendance in teaching activities will be recorded and monitored to support your success.
If you have difficulties with attending or engaging with your studies, it is important to speak to your tutor.
You can choose your modules once you have enrolled.
Your Advisor of Studies can help you make your choices.
Their details are on your portal once you enrol.
You can access your timetable through the University App .
Here are step-by-step instructions to access your personalised timetable .
You will only see lecture information at first.
Once you have signed up for seminars and group sessions these will appear on your timetable the next day.
Before you arrive, get ready to start your studies at Stirling with Stirling Essentials .
These online workshops, activities and resources will help develop your skills and understand expectations of studying with us.
International students: If you cannot arrive and enrol by the dates given on your CAS, you should contact the Student Immigration Team at studentimmigration@stir.ac.uk as soon as possible.
You need to have access to a laptop or computer to be able to study effectively on all our courses.
A mobile phone or tablet is not sufficient for university study.
We also strongly discourage the use of Chromebooks as they won't be able to run all the software you will need.
Find out what we recommend for university study .
Free Wi-Fi is available on campus, and all students have free access to Microsoft Office 365 (Outlook, Teams, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and more) to install on your own devices.
Need help with tech?
See our full IT guidance for new students .
If you have a disability, contact our Accessibility and Inclusion team for more IT recommendations that may help you.
With hundreds of thousands of physical and digital books and plenty of room for research and study, our spacious library offers all the tools and resources you need to succeed.
Canvas is the online learning space where you will find your learning materials, information on your modules and be able to sign up for classes and submit assessments.
You will have access from a week before teaching begins.
As well as space in the library, there are study zones and informal study spaces throughout the campus.
The University will primarily use e-mail and Canvas to communicate with you.
Check your e-mails and Canvas every day so you don't miss important messages.
We expect you to be professional, polite and respectful in all your communications to University staff and other students.
We have lots of free study skills workshops, drop-in sessions and other services to help you study successfully throughout your programme.
Learn a wide range of skills including IT, writing, reading, studying, researching, using the library and language skills.
Digital skills are essential for study and work.
Learn about the core skills you need, do a self-assessment and access training materials.
Whether you are on campus or online, there is a wide range of support available through a variety of channels to help you progress through your studies and make the most of life at Stirling.
Support options include:
Accessibility and Inclusion Services
Our Accessibility and Inclusion team are here to make sure there are no barriers to you achieving your full potential during your time at university.
Advisor of Studies scheme
If you need advice on your course, module choices and study options, your Adviser of Studies will be able to help.
Their details are on your student portal.
One-to-one support
Your lecturers and tutors will be on hand to answer questions, lead activities and support you.
All teaching staff have regular weekly drop-in sessions to offer one-to-one feedback and any support required.
These are available by phone, online or face-to-face.
Personal Tutor
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will support you and signpost any additional support required.
Student Learning Services
Student Learning Services (SLS) offers useful study skills advice and information.
SLS also provide study skills guidance and support through quick query emails and bookable tutorials.
To book, email sls@stir.ac.uk.
Student Support Services
Student Support Services are available to offer support and guidance on a range of issues including wellbeing, finance and accessibility and inclusion support.
Library and IT support
Library and IT enquiries are handled by the Information Centre.
You can contact them through UniDesk (linked through your Student Portal) and the University App.
Students' Union
The Stirling Students’ Union offers independent guidance and support to students.
Sign up for a STEER mentor
STEER is a University-wide student peer support scheme, providing mentors or buddies for any undergraduate or postgraduate taught student in their first year at the University of Stirling.
The scheme aims to help you make the most of your time here and to settle in as quickly as possible.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/life-at-stirling:
We know it can be a daunting thought moving to a new place and, in many cases, leaving home for the first time but our campus is friendly and welcoming, which will help you to settle in quickly.
The local city of Stirling also has plenty to offer and keep you occupied.
With an Olympic-sized swimming pool, on-site cinema and more than a dozen restaurants, bars and delis there's so much to explore and enjoy!
Explore your campus and find out more about our facilities including our on-site supermarket, shops, cinema and theatre.
No matter what kind of food and drink you’ve got an appetite for, you’ll find something on campus to suit your tastes.
If you're staying in University accommodation find out how to get to your accommodation and what to expect on moving day.
Feeling safe and secure is understandably a top priority.
We provide a 24/7 security team and a range of support services, such as our Safe Taxi Scheme .
It's easy to get around our campus by walking or cycling.
We have bikes for hire with Nextbike giving students free use of the scheme and free rental of a bike for the first 30 minutes of every ride.
Our campus hosts a thriving international programme of culture, comedy and theatre.
You can follow our sculpture trails, explore our art collection and discover some of the more unusual hidden cultural gems on our campus.
We respect and accommodate all faiths and none on campus through our Chaplaincy Centre and our facilities for our Muslim community .
We're committed to embedding sustainability at the core of everything we do.
Find out what we are doing and how you can get involved.
There's lots of ways to get involved on campus.
Try something new or join a club dedicated to your passions.
Getting involved in and around campus is a great way to meet people and make new friends.
As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence we offer a superb variety of exercise classes, health and fitness groups, sport and leisure activities for all levels of fitness and experience.
We’re proud to call Stirling our home - a city shaped by its unique history, with a lively arts scene and the beauty of a national park close by.
Check out "The Visitor Guide to Stirling" website giving you lots of information on things to do and local events.
You can also discover the city using a new augmented reality app, Stirling XP.
It lets you explore Stirling in a unique and exciting way through your smartphone screen.
Get live directions to your destination, interact with the 3D map to get information on the buildings and points of interest around you, and uncover the history of Stirling using the History Trail.
We have excellent bus links to and from Stirling city centre.
Young people under 22 who live in Scotland are entitled to free bus travel in Scotland.
Find out more about getting to the campus .
On campus, there's a small Nisa supermarket in Campus Central and a Co-Op in nearby in Bridge of Allan.
In Stirling you'll find all the big supermarkets plus smaller specialist stores, a Chinese supermarket and a Halal store.
Many supermarkets will deliver to the accommodation on campus.
You'll find plenty of comedy, arts and theatre venues all within easy reach, including our on-campus Macrobert Arts Centre.
Explore student-friendly food and drink venues across Stirling city and beyond.
We’re proud of our city's rich heritage.
From quirky independent shops to big name brands, Stirling has it all.
There are a range of churches and places of worship in the Stirling area which welcome students to visit and join the congregation in worship and community activities.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/belong-at-stirling:
At the University of Stirling, we're all about creating a community where everyone can thrive.
That starts with our core values: ambition, integrity and respect.
We believe in dreaming big, doing the right thing (even when no one's watching), treating each other with kindness and understanding.
Our values aren't just words written on a wall, they are the foundation of how we learn, grow and support each other.
As a member of our community, we expect you to live these values every day.
Together, we can build a space where everyone feels seen, heard and empowered to be their best selves.
Before you arrive at Stirling, you must complete our Consent Matters and Tackling Harassment training.
If you haven't already taken them, go to the Stirling Essentials site to start them.
The Code helps you understand your responsibilities as a student of the University of Stirling.
It applies to all students both online and on campus.
By enrolling as a student at the University, you agree to abide by the Code.
Our Communication Charter sets out how we expect staff and students to communicate with each other in an effective and respectful way.
Developing good communications skills is integral to developing your graduate attributes , which include being socially intelligent, digitally literate and responsible for your own behaviour.
If you are struggling to settle in, remember everyone feels the same at some time when they first arrive.
Sharing how you are feeling with another student can be helpful or you can speak to:
We take equality, diversity and inclusion very seriously at the University of Stirling and promote these principles through everything we do.
Our charter states that “the University shall be committed to the fair and equal treatment of every person and shall not discriminate on unjustified, irrelevant or unlawful grounds.
If you have ever experienced behaviour that does not meet these standards, you can report it and seek help on our Report and Support website .
At the University of Stirling, we are committed to taking all steps in our power to prevent and tackle gender based and sexual violence in all its forms.
See more about our approach to this issue along with further information about support available for those affected by gender based or sexual violence, or those supporting a friend or colleague .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/postgraduate-at-stirling:
At Stirling, you'll be part of a forward-thinking university that develops students into employable, confident graduates with the skills, knowledge and experience to make a difference in the world.
Here's some key dates you need to take note of:
We expect all our students to attend classes and complete reading and tasks set by tutors, as this is essential for you to do well in your studies.
We welcome many international postgraduate students to Stirling so please read our advice and guidance to help you prepare for studying at the University .
Studying a postgraduate degree is intensive and relies on you being ready to study on your arrival.
It is essential that you complete Stirling Essentials orientation programme:
It is essential that you have access to a laptop or computer to undertake all our courses and that you have basic digital skills, such as being able to use Microsoft Word.
You have free access to the full Office 365 suite of software during your studies and we also offer laptops on short term loan and have computers available around the campus.
A mobile phone is not sufficient to support your studies.
See our IT support and resources .
Our digital workshop series starts before the beginning of semester and can help you develop digital skills.
We strongly recommend that you work to develop these skills before you start your studies.
STEER is a University-wide student peer support scheme run by Stirling Students' Union.
It provides mentors or buddies for any postgraduate taught student in their first year at the University of Stirling.
The scheme aims to help you with the transition of settling into life at Stirling.
We will help you develop skills so you can plan and find career when you graduate.
The Student Postgraduate Faculty Officers work in partnership with University staff, the Students’ Union and postgraduate students to listen to you and work to improve your experience.
We have a variety of study facilities in our library and study zone including group study rooms, individual study desks, open study areas and computer labs.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/get-ahead-at-stirling:
Being at University is not only about getting a degree, it’s also about developing skills and experiences to help you be successful in life and in your future career.
From internships to help finding a job, the Careers Service gives you the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
Advice and events are available both on campus and online.
An internship can help you stand out to potential employers.
It also gives you a great opportunity to test out a possible career you have in mind before you graduate.
Volunteering is a great way to enhance your time at university, add to your CV ‌and most importantly give something back.
A part-time job can be an excellent way to help you develop transferable skills sought by employers.
Our TARGETconnect platform hosts a wide range of job opportunities, including part-time jobs.
TARGETconnect vacancies are managed by the employers themselves, so you will be making your application directly to them.
Activate your TARGETconnect account and set your preferences to receive email updates on new jobs as they are added.
As well as using TARGETconnect, you can find sources of opportunities via your Careers on Canvas pages .
The Award recognises the wide range of skills and attributes you develop through your extra-curricular activities.
Part-time work, volunteering and involvement with university clubs and societies all count.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/international-students:
We pride ourselves on being a truly international university, home to students and staff from all over the world.
On joining us you become part of our diverse, vibrant and welcoming community.
We can't wait to see what you achieve.
You must complete the Stirling Essentials orientation programme before you arrive.
Some steps you can take before you arrive in the UK to help with your studies.
Make sure you have access to a laptop or computer as you require this to be able to study effectively on all our courses.
We have laptops available for short and longer term loans .
You also need basic digital skills in using software such as Office 365.
We offer workshops if you need to improve your skills.
To keep your University of Stirling account as secure as possible, we use multi-factor authentication.
Our guide will help you set this up so you can start using our online resources.
Our Student Immigration Team are here to help you with advice and support for your visa application.
Before you arrive you should complete the online registration to confirm yourself as a member of the University of Stirling.
Before the start of each academic year, you’ll need to pay your tuition and accommodation fees.
Get more information on how to pay.
Essential information to help you plan and finalise your travel plans to the UK and to the University of Stirling campus.
Arrange your accommodation before you arrive.
If you arrive in Stirling with no accommodation arranged it may be difficult to find a suitable place to stay.
A quick guide to walk you through healthcare in the UK and various support services.
On our campus, we have both a medical and dental practice .
Information on planning for how you will access your money in the UK, including how to open a bank account in the UK.
See our suggested list of what to bring with you to Stirling and what is already supplied for you in our University accommodation.
Some practical arrangements you'll need to consider if you have a spouse or partner and/or dependant children that you want to join you in the UK.
We provide courses, workshops and support sessions to help international students with English language or study skills.
Our Careers Service are here to support you in finding employment.
They provide help with writing CVs and cover letters to help you meet UK standards.
They offer one-on-one consultations, workshops, and resources to help you succeed in the job market and secure part-time work while you study.
Find out more about the Union's work to help to support international students.
On campus, there's a small Nisa supermarket in Campus Central and a Co-op in nearby in Bridge of Allan.
Support is available at the University for anyone with physical and mobility difficulties, sensory impairments, mental health conditions and learning difficulties such as dyslexia.
You can contact the Student Services Hub in advance of your arrival to arrange a meeting to assess your needs, to avoid delays when you arrive.
Email ask@stir.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 1786 466022 .
If you have medical information (in English) which would support and explain your support needs from a doctor or other professional, please bring that with you.
Coming to the University of Stirling for the first time?
Dhanya shows you all the best places to start your journey including the bank, supermarket, doctors and more!

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/students-studying-online:
We're really excited that you're joining us at the University of Stirling.
We can't wait to welcome you to your online course and make sure you feel part of the Stirling community.
Here's all the information you need to help you start on your new academic journey.
Follow our easy online enrolment process.
This includes:
Your faculty will send you welcome information with everything you need to know about your course and online study at the University.
Some online courses may offer the option of face-to-face (in Stirling) or live online introductory sessions at the start of each semester.
For those unable to attend either option, we may provide introductory information about the modules in alternative digital formats, such as recorded podcasts.
Unless you are otherwise advised by your course team, you will use Canvas as your main digital learning space.
This is where you will find all your course and module materials, relevant notifications and information.
We suggest you complete the Learn How to Use Canvas module before you start your studies so you're ready to go.
Canvas also has help buttons and guides if you need to ask any questions.
Studying a postgraduate degree is intensive and relies on you being ready to study.
It is essential that you complete Stirling Essentials orientation programme :
It is essential that you have access to a laptop or computer to undertake all our courses and that you have basic digital skills, such as being able to use Microsoft Word.
You have free access to the full Office 365 suite of software during your studies and our digital workshop series can help you develop digital skills and this starts before the beginning of semester.
Module tutors
Module tutors are your first point of contact to provide support with coursework and questions about assignments.
Module coordinators
Deal with any module-related or assignment-related questions that the module tutor is unable to answer.
Personal tutors
Your personal tutor will help you feel part of the University community.
They're there to give you guidance, information and pastoral support as you progress through the course.
Find your personal tutor contact details on your portal homepage.
Even if you are not joining us on campus our services are available online.
Our Information Centre can help if you have problems with software, laptops and getting connected.
Our Student Support Services team are always on hand to offer advice and guidance on a range of topics including money advice, counselling and wellbeing support.
Student Learning Services run a regular schedule of online workshops, tutorials and one to one sessions to enhance your study skills and support your success.
Our Careers Service are available to everyone.
They can give you the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
Our Library services are available for all students and we have over 500,000 resources available online.
Find out more about how you can use the Library .
STEER is a University-wide student peer support scheme run by Stirling Students' Union.
It provides mentors or buddies for any undergraduate or postgraduate taught student in their first year at the University of Stirling.
The scheme aims to help you with the transition of settling into life at Stirling.
Have some fun and connect with others through our student life programme Be Connected , which is a programme of online and on campus events, resources and activities designed to keep you connected with the University community.
Why not introduce yourself?
We encourage students to start their own online groups to talk about study and help each other out.
You can create discussion forums within Canvas.
You can also join or create Facebook and WhatsApp groups to communicate with each other.
Find out what’s happening around campus by following us on Instagram , Facebook or X .
We will communicate with you through your student email address.
You can access your student email account via ‘My Portal’ to receive all the latest updates.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/late-arrivals:
Welcome to Stirling, we hope you will enjoy studying with us.
It is important that you arrive at the beginning of semester to receive the full benefit of induction and teaching.
However, we know that some students can be delayed by visas and travel issues.
If you are delayed in arriving after the start of semester, you should still access our Stirling Essentials orientation programme .
If you have missed the pre-arrival online workshops, you can still access the recordings, undertake essential activities and check out the resources which will help answer your questions.
The programme includes advice for international students to help them settle in.
Our welcome website provides a lot of information on life, study and support at Stirling.
All of these resources are available both before and after you arrive.
On arrival, it’s important you complete a few key tasks to help you settle quickly into your degree studies:
Contact the Student Services Hub for all general questions about the support available on campus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/students-union:
The Union supports, develops and represents students throughout your time at University.
We're here to help you make lifelong friends, to build skills for the future, with support and advice if you need it and to help you influence your learning.
These pages we hope to give you just a taste of all of the things on offer from your Union to make your time at University the best it can be.
Your Students’ Union is here to make your life at Stirling the best that it can be.
We’re for all students, whether you’re a new undergraduate, postgraduate or studying from a different location.
We're a registered charity and importantly, a separate organisation from the University of Stirling.
We're here to build communities, support friendships and futures for an excellent Stirling experience.
The Students' Union supports, develops and represents students throughout your time at University.
We're here to help you make lifelong memories, build skills for the future, with support and advice if you need it and to influence your learning.
Student representation is the core of what we are as a Student Union and putting you, our members, at the heart of the decision-making process is vital to ensure that your interests are championed.
Every year you elect student officers to represent your views, to be your voice to the University, to local government and to national policy makers.
Through our Sabbatical officers, Academic reps and Faculty rep systems we ensure your voice is heard and we work in partnership with the University to implement change.
We provide a huge range of student activities from events, Societies and Sports teams to our Sustainability hub, the Green and Blue Space, and Community Garden.
Getting involved with Your Union gives you the best opportunities to meet new people and do the things you love.
We provide you with advice and support throughout your degree and even free sanitary products and condoms.
During your first weeks, you’ll have loads of fun activities to enjoy so make sure you check out all that's on offer.
We're here to help...
Check out the Union's website and social media to ensure you know everything that's going on!
The Union is Your Union so above all, make the most of it and get involved.
Justine, Ellie, Adelayo & Laura
Sabbatical Team 2025-26
Visit the Stirling Students Union website or follow us on social media.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/contact-us:
+44 (0) 1786 467044
+44 (0) 1786 466655
+44 (0) 1786 466681
If you have any questions about University of Stirling accommodation or moving in day, please get in touch.
accommodation@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1786 467060
Information Services delivers the library, IT, digital learning technology and other information needs and services.
You can contact our Information Centre with any queries.
askIT@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1786 467250
theunion@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1786 467166
Our Student Services Hub are here to support you with services including support for emotional wellbeing, accessibility and inclusion, money, student learning services, spiritual support, sexual and gender based violence support, visa and immigration advice, careers information and advice, and more.
+44 (0) 1786 466022
ask@stir.ac.uk
Go to our Faculty pages to see their contact details:
If you're away from campus, you should call 999 to reach any of the emergency services.
If you're on campus, call the Security Team any time on 7999 (on an internal phone) or 01786 467999 (from a mobile phone) to request the Police.
If you need an ambulance , dial 999 directly to speak to a call handler.
Once you have done so, call the Security Team on 7999 (on an internal phone) or 01786 467999 (from a mobile phone) to advise them that an ambulance will be arriving.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/events/welcome-events-sep-2025:
Join us in Queen's Court on 12 September from 13:00-16:00 to enjoy a free burger and drink.
There's music and outdoor games as well.
The BBQ is the perfect opportunity to meet and network with fellow new students.
The Stirling Students' Union Welcome Pass 2025 includes entry to a range of ticketed events held in Venue throughout Welcome Week.
Includes the famous UV party, ABBA tribute night and party bingo!
Passes on sale now.
Passionate about sustainability?
So are we!
Visit our pop-up Green & Blue space in the Atrium to get affordable kitchenware, homeware and much more!
Open daily from 11 to 25 September between 12:00 and 16:00.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/students:
"Focusing on personal and academic growth to cultivate creative, responsible, skilled and resilient graduates"
Our student community is a vibrant international body of some 17,500 undergraduates and postgraduates.
We recruit those with potential and are proud to be a leader in widening access to higher education.
We know the true measure of success is not the quality of our intake, it is the high quality of our graduates.
Our teaching is excellent, and independently recognised as such, with a strong emphasis on experiential learning.
Our number one priority is supporting our students to learn; to build resilience; and to develop life skills, experience and attitudes that will help them make a difference to the communities where they live and work.
Fostering a strong academic community and investing in a caring, supportive environment, speaks to each of our values.
Our pedagogy gives students the confidence to be ambitious; to embrace success and behave with integrity; and to show respect for one another and the world in which we live.
Our learning and teaching strategy encompasses the intellectual, social, health and emotional needs of our students.
Over the course of this strategic plan, the University will:
Provide an environment where students from all backgrounds can enjoy their learning, be part of a community with shared values, and realise their ambitions.
Offer a demand-informed curriculum, which embeds personal and professional skills, in a modern digital teaching and learning environment.
Focus on employability, offering work-based learning opportunities, and encouraging students to see ongoing skills development as a route to successful careers.
Encourage students to strive for excellence, enrich their learning and take an active involvement in enhancing all aspects of their lives.
Encourage our global alumni community to have a lifelong relationship with us, providing them with access to our international network and careers services.
By 2030 we will:
As a vibrant, international university, we celebrate diversity – sharing our traditions and cultures, and enriching the lives of our community.
With more than 140 nationalities on campus, we encourage our students and staff to share their cultures, traditions and experiences.
Every year we enjoy the colourful Hindu festival of Holi – a celebration of spring, love, and new life.
It is just one of the many cultural events featured in our Be Connected student life programme , which helps our community to meet friends, learn new skills and have fun.
Highly valued by employers, a Stirling degree is a passport to a rewarding and successful career.
Stirling graduates are making a positive contribution and delivering impact across the world.
Niru Neil Dorrian – who graduated with a BSc (Hons) Marine Biology – is using the skills, knowledge and experience he gained at Stirling in his role as a Senior Offshore Ecologist with energy company ESB.
“I always wanted to become a marine mammal biologist and Stirling helped me achieve this.
Having a degree in Marine Biology has opened so many doors for me and launched my incredible career where I travel the world.
I have taken part in more than fifty marine and coastal projects globally and gained valuable experience working in protected areas and UNESCO marine biosphere reserves.”

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/staff:
"Enhancing our culture of support for one another, enabling colleagues to develop and sustain fulfilling careers while delivering our ambitions individually and collectively"
Our success depends on our people.
We have 1,800 members of staff and expect this number to grow proportionally over the course of this plan as student numbers and research activity develop and increase.
We will achieve our institutional objectives if we can create the conditions where our teams and individual staff members can optimise their performance.
We are committed to ensuring every colleague has the opportunity to achieve their professional ambitions, enabling them to feel, individually and collectively, that their contribution is valued and that they have made a difference
We want work to be fulfilling, and we recognise our staff have competing responsibilities and priorities as they balance work and personal lives.
We will build our staff experience by engaging with colleagues and learning more about what is really important to them.
We have shown agility in supporting a shift from the traditional working week and will continue to support new ways of working.
We will reevaluate how we use our estate, and reconfigure space to ensure it meets evolving needs.
In a global marketplace, competition for the best people is fierce.
We continue to be an employer of choice by nurturing a culture of ambition, integrity and respect, where our people feel capable and empowered to make a difference.
Engage and retain talent in support of our growth ambitions, and provide our staff with training and career development opportunities.
Prioritise personal and professional growth, and support staff in developing their skills and careers at Stirling, recognising their commitment to excellence is key to our success.
Enrich lives and generate new knowledge by creating opportunities for cross-university collaboration, broadening networks, and fostering a dynamic learning community.
Enable staff to work more effectively and efficiently by investing in digital skills and technology, while assessing our skills base, building on progressive work practices and celebrating success.
Ensure decisions are taken at appropriate levels within the University, enabling and fostering trust and accountability to best progress institutional objectives.
By attracting and retaining talented staff, and investing in their skills development and career growth, we are committed to creating a rewarding place to work.
In a competitive global jobs market, we are committed to improving our employee experience and prioritising the health and wellbeing of our staff.
Through our Be Heard staff surveys, we are listening to our people and using their feedback to enhance the employee experience, while empowering our leaders to drive change throughout the organisation.
We are continually evolving and our approach to agile working enables staff to do their best work and deliver on business needs, while providing flexibility and inclusive working practices.
By harnessing cutting-edge technology, refining our virtual learning environment, and providing first-class digital skills support, we empower our staff and students to thrive in work and study.
By 2030, our smart campus will maximise our use of emerging technologies, improve our use of space and minimise environmental impact – creating innovative ways for people to work, learn and live.
This work will further enhance our dynamic and digital environments, both on and off campus; integrate automation and artificial intelligence; and provide infrastructure to digitally advance our teaching and research community.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/research:
"Producing world-leading research and innovation with national and global impact"
We intend to make a step-change in research and innovation through a targeted approach which builds on our strong reputation for research impact in the UK and internationally.
As a research-intensive university, we promote economic development and regeneration, attract investment, stimulate business engagement, generate high-value jobs, and contribute to a more sustainable and inclusive world.
We produce outcomes that have the potential to transform people’s lives.
The interdisciplinary nature of our research is critical to producing successful solutions-driven outcomes and, for us, deriving impact and tangible benefit from our research is a key measure of success.
As we prepare for the Research Excellence Framework 2029 (REF29) we will build on existing success to further develop our reputation as a university that makes a difference.
Research engagement and impact are ways in which we demonstrate that we are fulfilling our pledge to be a university with purpose.
We will reinforce the importance of getting right the process and culture of producing research of the highest quality.
We will ensure our postgraduate research community and research teams are steeped in a culture of curiosity, creativity and innovation.
Our strategy makes it an imperative to create and use new knowledge locally, nationally and internationally, making a positive impact on people’s lives and the places and spaces which they inhabit.
Over the course of this plan, the University will:
Grow existing areas of research strength, expand into new areas, and embrace an innovation culture to deliver solutions locally and globally.
Put innovation at the heart of academic practice, underpinned by strong leadership, ethics and integrity, and encourage researchers to capitalise on interdisciplinary networks.
Progress our plans to improve the quality of spaces, places and lives to deliver solutions to global challenges.
Enable researchers to build long-term careers; developing our people with a focus on leadership, partnership working and creating a strong sense of belonging across our communities.
Deepen partnerships - including with government, business and industry - to use our research to stimulate growth, and maximise the potential of initiatives such as City Region and Growth Deals.
By 2030 we will :
We are tackling major global challenges, changing lives, and creating a more sustainable and inclusive world through our mission-focused, interdisciplinary research.
Our research into sustainable healthy ageing is delivering pioneering solutions to the challenges posed by an ageing, global population.
Our researchers are helping millions of people across the world to live independent lives for longer – through our work on dementia design, by age-proofing businesses, and by shaping policy.
We are transforming the narrative of ageing from one of challenge to opportunity.
The Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub, developed under the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, will ensure we continue to deliver groundbreaking solutions as we adapt to changing global demographics.
We are delivering change around the world, while making a meaningful difference to the communities on our doorstep.
As a leading partner in the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal , we are shaping our region's future – delivering jobs, growth and prosperity – by developing local solutions to global challenges.
Scotland's International Environment Centre – one of three university-led research and innovation hubs funded through the Deal – will spearhead the region’s transition to net zero.
Its flagship project Forth-ERA is creating a catchment-scale environmental observatory – the first of its kind in the world – to drive sustainable, inclusive economic recovery in Forth Valley.
Our award-winning Institute of Aquaculture is seeking solutions to develop sustainable, healthy and secure ways of living – exploring how best to support developing countries in tackling global food security by establishing strategies for sustainable aquaculture and aquatic food security.
The National Aquaculture Technology and Innovation Hub , created under the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, will drive the UK’s ambitions to become a world leader in modern aquaculture practice.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/engagement:
"Partnering with key players to make a difference in our city, region, nation and the wider world, and harnessing the power of our global alumni network"
We are proud to be based in one of Scotland’s most ancient and historic cities.
We owe our existence to visionaries in the Royal Burgh of Stirling who petitioned for us to be established here.
Through this plan, we want to help our city and this region be healthier, wealthier and a better place to live.
As well as our civic leadership role, as evidenced by our pivotal role in the City Region and Growth deals, we also have an important role to play in Scotland, helping it to deliver its ambitions to transform the economy, mitigate the impact of climate change, improve the nation’s health and wellbeing, and raise education standards.
Globally, we have an international network of alumni working at the highest levels, and we deliver educational excellence through partner institutions and transnational education.
We also play a vital part in global research networks, ensuring Scotland contributes to and benefits from advances in knowledge elsewhere in the world.
We will further broaden those networks.
We will make a material difference to our city, region, nation and the wider world by being good global citizens; delivering ground-breaking research outcomes; and by producing graduates with skills that benefit society, and who can respond to the needs of a changing world.
We will contribute to economic growth and help create a fairer, safer and more sustainable planet.
Over the course of this plan the University will:
Deepen our global reach and engagement by expanding international partnerships, encourage student and staff mobility, and strengthen links with our global alumni networks.
Use our world-leading research in global and community resilience to deliver positive impact, making a difference by building partnerships with governments, academia, business and NGOs.
Deliver our Sustainability Plan, aligning our objectives with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals where appropriate, and helping drive our region's ambition to achieve net zero by 2040.
Develop shared objectives with industry and government partners to advance economic, educational, social and cultural development in Stirling, Clackmannanshire, Falkirk and beyond, increasing the impact of our engagement with businesses.
Deepen the connections between the University and our local area, increasing the vibrancy of local life and spaces, and extending our impact and reach, to the benefit of our community.
As an outward-looking university with strong international partnerships, we provide our students with the opportunity to enjoy a global academic experience.
Our partnership with the Singapore Institute of Management gives students the opportunity to study with us, either in Singapore or in Stirling, and the option to spend a semester overseas on the partner campus.
As part of the programme, students graduate with a University of Stirling qualification.
Beyond Singapore, our international partnerships enable students to study with us in many locations around the world – including in the United Arab Emirates and Vietnam.
Study abroad opportunities are open to all our Stirling students, with more than 70 partner universities across four continents, while staff can also gain experience working overseas, as part of our global collaborations.
By encouraging student and staff mobility, we enrich lives by enabling our people to explore the world, sample new cultures and build their international networks.
As we face up to the challenges posed by climate change, we are taking decisive action and setting an example in how best to protect our planet.
By working with partners, we have reduced carbon emissions by more than 40% since 2007 – and by 2040 we are committed to being carbon net zero.
Through engagement with our community, we are changing the way we live, work and study, finding new ways to manage our campus, and moving towards greener energy sources.
We are a signatory to the Sustainable Development Goals Accord and the Race to Zero for Universities and Colleges campaign.
We are embedding sustainability in our teaching and collaborating with local organisations to promote sustainable travel, including bike share schemes and electric car charging points on campus.
Our Students’ Union is saving around six tonnes of waste each year through recycling, and is encouraging students to get involved in a wide range of sustainable projects and initiatives, including our community garden.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/health-and-wellbeing:
"Investing in our people’s physical and mental health, and enhancing society’s health and wellbeing through world-leading research and education."
As a research leader in health and social care, including the study of ageing and dementia, we have a significant national and international role to play in enhancing people’s lives.
We also have a leadership role to play in the lives of staff and students, and the wider community, as Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence.
Long-term quality of life is important to us all, and governments around the world are looking to prevent disease and keep people heathier for longer.
We will intensify our research in this area, provide expertise to policy makers, and develop innovative education programmes.
As an employer, we understand the link between health and performance.
We will ensure wellbeing features prominently in the support we provide for staff and students, and we will look at ways of using our sporting and cultural resources to add value to their lives and enhance their physical and mental well-being.
In addition to investing in, and promoting, the benefits of physical activity for all, we will celebrate and promote our high-performance athletes as role models, showcasing their ability to balance sporting prowess and performance with academic excellence.
They enhance the nation’s reputation and our own.
We will intensify our multi-disciplinary research and teaching in health and wellbeing, and further increase its impact.
We will nurture our people, and harness our campus’s natural and built environment to improve their lives and the lives of the communities we serve.
Over the course of this strategic plan the University will:
Intensify our research, developing innovative solutions in health and social care, while providing expertise for policymakers locally, nationally and internationally.
Lead the development of health and social care education and training nationally and internationally; developing innovative programmes for professionals and organisations.
Leverage our expertise to enhance health and wellbeing within the University and wider community.
Develop an integrated approach to student and staff welfare and working conditions, promoting physical activity and acknowledging the challenges faced in managing physical and mental health.
Create inspiring spaces for our students and staff, to stimulate learning, engagement and outreach, and to enrich their lives and sense of wellbeing.
As leaders in health education and research, and as Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, we are committed to enhancing the health and wellbeing of our community and wider society.
We place huge value on the wellbeing of our students and staff, with our entire university community encouraged and supported to take care of their mental and physical health.
Our world-class sports facilities, outstanding campus, and the wide variety of exercise and wellness classes on offer, provide the perfect environment to stay healthy, fit and active.
Students and staff can participate in activities and access a range of support through Be Connected events, the Student Services Hub, and the Employee Assistance Programme.
In the first partnership of its kind, the University is collaborating with NHS Forth Valley and Forth Valley College to improve patient care and treatments, and boost health research and staff learning across the region.
The Forth Valley University College NHS Partnership brings together the organisations’ unique wealth of knowledge, skills and experience to create a hub for world-class research, innovation and thinking.
It directly responds to the needs of local people by bringing a collaborative approach to hospitals, health centres, social care settings, care homes and classrooms.
By working together, we are enhancing the health and wellbeing of our community.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/delivering-our-strategy-together:
Murdoch, who died of Alzheimer’s, is an inspirational part of the University’s story.
Honorary graduate Judi Dench, who played her on film, opened our Iris Murdoch Building in 2003.
The UK’s first dementia-friendly building, it has become an international centre of excellence and is one of the pillars of research that helps define our purpose as a university.
We take students with potential and add value to their learning; we are an international hub for learning and research, attracting the best to our vibrant community; we are a place where people transform their lives and the lives of others.
Our supporting pillars are People, Place and Purpose, and our determination to make an impact is reflected in our strapline - Be the difference .
Through the pursuit of excellence, we have done just that.
Our alumni are leaders in business, public service and the third sector; our researchers provide solutions to global problems, and colleagues across the University enable our students to find the best in themselves.
The objective of this strategic plan is to build on those successes, it empowers our people to go further and encourages a culture where they can produce work which is considered among the best in the world.
The plan’s success will be measured by our enhanced research profile; through quantifiable improvements in learning and teaching outcomes, including graduate employability; and by recognition that we have made a material difference to our community and the wider world.
We were founded in 1967 to lead a nation through the “white heat” of a technological revolution.
Today we are living through a new digital revolution; but we are also facing environmental challenges of unprecedented proportions, and a crisis in health and well-being.
Our research strengths are in areas critical to negotiating these challenges, and our purpose is to find solutions to deal with them.
This strategic plan puts our students and staff front and centre – by encouraging them to perform at the highest level individually, we will deliver our ambitions collectively.
By providing the best environment for them to innovate; to carry out pure and applied research; and to learn effectively, we will also be equipping future generations with the tools to lead our city, our region, our nation and the wider world.
Our core values inform what we do and how we do it.
We use our agility and sense of common purpose to embrace opportunities.
We are an international community supporting one another to achieve great things.
We are a distinctly Scottish university focused on meeting global needs.
And we are a university here to “Be the difference”.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan/enabling-strategies:
The Strategic Plan 2030 is supported by a number of enabling strategies.
These enabling strategies underpin the objectives of the Strategic Plan by setting specific operational goals and performance measures to support the delivery of the Plan.
The enabling strategies cover:
Our monitoring and evaluation framework will include milestones and a series of key performance indicators that will allow us to assess the progress of this Strategic Plan.
People
Research and innovation
Global engagement
Digital
Education
Estates

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/health-and-fitness:
We take pride in helping you gain confidence and improving your wellbeing, but most of all helping you to enjoy exercise.
All activities are available to non-members but membership will give you free or discounted access to many activities.
Discover the perfect environment for you to achieve your fitness and wellbeing goals.
Our excellent swimming facilities are available to the public for recreational and lane swimming.
Discover a huge range of weekly fitness and wellbeing classes.
We can design a 6-week gym programme to help you work towards your fitness goals.
Invest in your health and unlock your potential with Personal Training.
Our workshops are designed to provide focus and development of a specific area of fitness.
Make the most of your membership with support and guidance.
We take pride in helping you make the most of your membership.
We have a range of services available to help you reach your goals, regardless of your current experience or level of fitness.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/facilities:
As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, our sports facilities are ranked 1st in the UK and 2nd in the world (International Student Barometer 2024).
Our campus has extensive outdoor and indoor facilities including gym spaces, a 50-metre swimming pool, tennis courts, sports halls, athletics track and outdoor pitches.
Our world-class sports facilities are available for hire.
We welcome bookings from individuals, groups, schools, and elite teams.
Whether you're a school looking to book pitches for school holiday programmes, an elite sports team looking to use the high-performance gym or a group of friends reserving tennis courts – we've got you covered.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/membership:
We have affordable sports and gym membership options for the wider Stirling community, graduates, staff, students and corporate.
Enjoy our stunning £20m sport facilities from as little as £21.75 per month.
Our Student memberships give you the option to spread the cost from £21.75 per month!
Take a break and enjoy our fantastic facilities and services for £31.25 per month!
No joining fees and unlimited access to our world-class facilities and all classes.
Concessions are available.
Don’t let graduation be the end of your fitness journey at Stirling.
We offer discounted corporate memberships for organisations and their employees.
We offer concessionary rates for students studying at another school, college or university.
Create an account to use our facilities on a pay as you go basis (community users only)
Considering a membership but not sure where to start?
Use the link below to submit any queries and one of our team will be in touch.
Use your University of Stirling Sport student or staff membership across the UK.
Find out more on the BUCS UNIversal gym website .
Enjoying the Sports Centre
Please read our guidelines for using the Sports Centre facilities

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/student-sport-and-wellbeing:
Being active at University can improve your mental and physical well-being, increase your grade expectations and make you feel more included in the university community.
That’s why we have lots of opportunities for everyone to get involved.
Working with the University Sports Union, we support a comprehensive club sport programme for students of all abilities and interests.
Our Social Sport Leagues provide our students and staff with a great opportunity to play semi-competitive sport on a weekly basis.
We can help you take the first step towards a healthier lifestyle.
Whether or not you’ve played sport, or been inside a gym, there is something for everyone.
As Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence, we’re at the forefront of helping and inspiring talented athletes to fulfil their sporting and academic potential.
1st in the UK, 2nd in the world
social facilities and social activities
The International Student Barometer 2024

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/performance-sport:
As Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence, we’re at the forefront of developing and supporting talented athletes fulfil their sporting and academic potential.
We’ve produced some of the some of the finest British and Scottish talent in history as well as supporting elite athletes from all over the world.
Our athletes have successfully competed at the Olympic, Paralympic and Commonwealth Games, Wimbledon, The Masters and British Open to name a few.
The University's Sports Scholarship Programme is one of the largest high-performance sports programmes in the UK.
We’ve supported more than 1,000 athletes since its inception in 1981.
Our sport scholarships offer tailored support packages for student athletes incorporating coaching, state-of-the-art facilities, performance mentoring and access to the latest innovations in sport research.
We can help you combine flexible degree study with your success in competing at the highest levels of sport.
We offer scholarships to students competing in our core sports, listed below, or competing in any other sport at an international level:
Your gift powers performance.
Better equipment.
Access to top coaches.
International competition opportunities.
Support that fuels the success of Stirling’s elite athletes - competitors with national titles, international experience, and global ambition.
Single gift or regular support – join the team that makes champions.
From basketball to volleyball, we also invest in a variety of club sports to help them with development and sports performance.
We work with academic colleagues and national governing bodies to provide exciting research opportunities within our world-class performance sport environment.
These scholarships are for undergraduate and postgraduate students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, EU and International students who meet the sport-specific qualification criteria and who meet or exceed their academic conditions for entry.
If you would like to talk to us about our sport scholarships please contact our Performance Sport team.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/about-us:
We’re at the heart of Scottish sport, dedicated to transforming lives and society through sport and wellbeing.
Our sports centre provides a huge range of sport, leisure and fitness activities for students, staff and local residents.
We prepare athletes to perform on the world stage.
We help our students and members develop wellbeing and fitness.
Our innovative research improves the health of the nation
We teach children about exercise, swimming and playing sport.
We believe physical activity is for everyone.
We provide the perfect sporting environment for all levels and experiences.
We organise affordable sports and gym membership options for public, alumni, staff, corporate and students.
Students have the chance to participate in weekly sports leagues, events and 55 sports clubs.
Our scholarships help and inspire talented athletes to break new ground and fulfil their potential.
We've sent athletes to Olympic, World and Commonwealth Games.
We're Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence, a recognition of our contribution to Scottish sport and for training some of the finest British and Scottish talent in history.
A number of sport organisations and bodies are based at the University, allowing us to connect the people shaping Scottish sport and creating a hub of expertise and excellence.
We're always on the lookout for talented, driven individuals to join the team at Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence.
Visit out Recruitment page to find out information about live opportunities.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/news-and-events:
Keep up-to-date with Sport at Stirling's latest news and events.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/study-sport:
Study a Sports degree that gets results at the University of Stirling.
Our eight sport-specific courses cover all aspects of sport – from nutrition and sports science, to performance, psychology and sport business management.
Find the perfect undergraduate or postgraduate course for you, and study on campus or online.
Our sport research explores the power of sport to positively impact communities and transform lives through physical activity – all contributing to our position as Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, and our reputation as one of the best places in the world to study sport.
Our undergraduate and Masters courses can help you build towards a career in any aspect of sport – from sport psychology or nutrition, to exercise science and professional coaching.
Our academic experts make game-changing contributions to sport research.
Find out why we're ranked 1st in Scotland for research outputs in Sport and Exercise Sciences (REF 2021) - and learn more about studying your PhD at Stirling.
Our sport scholarships can offer you financial support of up to £5,000 per annum.
Combine your studies with competition at the highest level.
As Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence we prepare athletes to perform on the world stage, help our students and members develop wellbeing and fitness, improve the health of the nation through research and teach children about playing sport.
Our campus is home to the National Swimming Academy, the National Tennis Centre and Triathlon Scotland - placing Stirling at the forefront of sport in Scotland and the UK.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/community-sport:
We run a range of sports development programmes for users of all ages and abilities looking to learn something new or refine existing skills.
Learn a skill for life with our classes for pre-nursery age upwards.
Learn the basics of the game with classes packed full of fun games and dynamic activities.
Our adult swimming lessons offer sessions for all abilities.
If you're a starter or an advanced player we’ll help you make the most of your tennis game.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/health-and-fitness/hyrox-at-university-of-stirling-sport:
As an affiliated Hyrox Training Club, our team are trained and ready to help you on your functional fitness journey, no matter your experience!
HYROX is a fitness race and style of training that combines both running and functional workout stations, helping participants of all experience and abilities improve their all-round fitness.
The race itself includes a 1km run, followed by one functional workout station, repeated eight times, providing a brilliant challenge and goal for those taking part.
However, you don't have to enter a race or compete to enjoy HYROX training.
Our HYROX classes are a great way to be part of a community that supports and motivates each other in a way that is hard to replicate in a standard gym environment.
Find out more about HYROX
Our HYROX classes, clinics and workshops are run by qualified coaches, covering all aspects of HYROX training including running, strength endurance and conditioning - all hosted on our athletics track, hybrid training area and high performance suite.
View our HYROX class timetable on our app or online booking portal .
Non-member community users must create a Pay as You Go account before booking.
Our HYROX memberships are a bolt-on to your existing University of Stirling Sport membership, providing unlimited bookings on our HYROX class timetable and early ticket access for all HYROX events.
Standard University of Stirling Sport membership required to purchase bolt-on.
Prices
University of Stirling Student - £10 per month BUY NOW
University of Stirling Staff - £15 per month BUY NOW
Community - £15 per month BUY NOW
Event: HYROX full simulation
Date: Saturday 27 September 2025
Venue: National Tennis Centre and athletics track, University of Stirling
Time: 08:00 - 16:00
Hosted at the National Tennis Centre and our athletics track, our first HYROX simulation event ( full format ) is the ideal opportunity for those preparing for the upcoming HYROX season or anyone looking for their next fitness challenge.
For race participants, use the event to iron out your race strategy or fine tune your stations.
For those who are new to HYROX, come along and get a sense of what fitness events are all about but in a slightly more relaxed environment!
Individual, Doubles and Team Relay spaces available (male, female and mixed).
Open to members and non-members.
Spaces are booked on the event category (individual, doubles or team relay) and participants will be contacted for further details (female, male, mixed, estimated times etc) to help finalise the running order.
Please note Team Relay teams can be made up of any male/female combination (including 3:1 or all-male / all-female).
Participants will have start times confirmed no later than Monday 22 September .
Course details to be announced in due course.
Book your space now via the app or online booking portal (non-members must create a Pay As You Go account before booking).
Join our mailing list for all the latest event and HYROX at University of Stirling Sport updates.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/facilities/how-to-book-with-university-of-stirling-sport:
The quickest and easiest way to book your session or class is to download our app which offers access to bookings, timetables and other content at the touch of a button.
You can also book online or contact us using the details below.
You can also book classes through our new online portal by following the on-screen instructions.
If you would like to book any part of the indoor or outdoor facilities at University of Stirling Sport for group bookings, please email sportbookings@stir.ac.uk
Thanks
If you have any issues with booking or registering please email sportreception@stir.ac.uk and one of the team will be happy to assist.
All students and staff will automatically have an account created when enrolling with the University.
Whilst the app and portal are the simplest and quickest way to make a booking, we appreciate the transition to using these platforms can be tricky.
Therefore if you require any assistance in making a booking using the app or online portal, please contact us on 01786 466900 or sportreception@stir.ac.uk .
Just Play Sport
Household sport

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/sport-at-stirling/about-us/opening-hours:
Opening times may vary between certain facilities.
Day
Time
Monday
6am - 10pm
Tuesday
Wednesday
View the current swimming pool timetable .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/university-of-stirling-head-of-golf-set-to-lead-great-britain-and-ireland-into-transatlantic-battle:
25 August 2025 Share
Captain Dean Robertson's final preparations ahead of prestigious Walker Cup
University of Stirling Head of Golf Dean Robertson is eagerly anticipating going head-to-head with the United States, as he prepares to captain Great Britain and Ireland at the prestigious Walker Cup.
In the 50th edition of the transatlantic tie, Robertson will lead a team of 10 amateur golfers from GB&I as they bid to wrestle the coveted title off their American counterparts, who have dominated the biennial contest since its founding in 1922.
This year’s milestone competition will take place at the exclusive Cypress Point Club in Pebble Beach, California, and broadcast live across the world, including on Sky Sports here in the UK.
Robertson believes the players he has selected have every opportunity to cause an upset on American soil.
The 55-year-old said: “I have meticulously selected this year’s Great Britain and Ireland team, leveraging an unparalleled understanding of each player’s game, personality, and ability to meet the unique skill set demanded at Cypress Point.
“This exceptional group represents the very best in skill, unity, resilience and determination.
We are massive underdogs on paper and there are some who say we have absolutely no chance, however, I am 100 per cent confident that this team is perfectly equipped to compete at the highest level.
“Win or lose, we are heading to Cypress Point to set a new standard, embrace the challenge, honour the legacy of the Walker Cup and make history.”
Set to fly out to the United States this week, the GB&I team consists of 10 players: Cameron Adam, Eliot Baker, Dominic Clemons, Charlie Forster, Connor Graham, Stuart Grehan, Luke Poulter, Niall Sheils Donegan, Gavin Tiernan and Tyler Weaver.
Robertson will be supported by fellow professional golfers Raymond Russell – his teammate at the 1993 Walker Cup in Minnesota – and Kath O’Connor; University of Stirling colleague, sports psychologist Dr John Mathers; and performance nutritionist Amy O’Donnell.
Robertson added: “We are all incredibly excited by this challenge.
To be part of this special competition at a venue like Cypress Point is a career defining moment for the team.
“Having walked in their shoes back in 1993, I know how the players will be feeling.
I’m encouraging them to embrace the experience, enjoy the atmosphere and give everything they’ve got as they seek to upset the odds and bring the Walker Cup back home.”
Last month, Robertson brought the team together for the St Andrews Trophy, played in Madrid against the Continent of Europe.
GB&I put on a brilliant performance as they swept to a 16.5 to 8.5 victory, and Robertson believes the confidence taken from the win, combined with a focus on three key values – of preparation, togetherness and execution – will stand his players in good stead as they reconvene in California in the coming days.
“We’ve had the opportunity to spend some time together, forge relationships and build foundations – and we are looking forward to see what we can achieve together at Cypress Point.”
David Bond, Head of Performance Sport at the University of Stirling, said: “Very best wishes to Dean and the GB&I squad ahead of their big match up against the USA at Cypress Point.
“The Walker Cup is a very prestigious tournament, which has previously given some of the biggest names in golf the opportunity to make their mark.
“Dean has given the team the best possible chance of success via his meticulous and diligent approach to preparing for the task in hand.
Best of luck to Dean and the team.”
For the 2025 event, which will take place September 6 and 7, the United States will be captained by Nathan Smith, an amateur golfer from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, who has played in three Walker Cups: 2009, 2011 and 2013.
Organised by the R&A and the United States Golf Association, the Walker Cup began in 1922, with the United States leading the series 39-9, with one match tied.
Selection to play in the historic match is often regarded as the highlight of an amateur’s career – many of whom go on to turn professional.
Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy, Phil Mickleson and Dustin Johnson are among the top professionals to have played in the competition while amateurs.
GB&I will be aiming for success at Cypress Point following four straight losses in the competition, the most recent a narrow defeat to the USA in St Andrews in September 2023.
GB&I has only won twice on US soil – at Peachtree Golf Club, Atlanta, in 1989 and Ocean Forest Golf Club, Georgia, in 2001.
As an amateur, Robertson won the Scottish Youths Amateur Open Championship in 1991, the Scottish Amateur Stroke Play Championship in 1992, and the Scottish Amateur Championship in 1993.
At the 1993 Walker Cup, at Interlachen Country Club in Edina, Minnesota, he won his singles match against Jay Sigel – but, in a one-sided affair, GB&I lost the competition 19-5.
As a professional, Robertson won the European Tour’s Italian Open in 1999 and the Scottish PGA Championship in 2006.
He also competed in The Open Championship on four occasions, with his best finish being tied 26th at St Andrews in 2000.
Watch: University of Stirling's high-performance golf programme.
Robertson has led the high-performance golf programme at Stirling – Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence – since 2010.
During his tenure, he has developed some of the country’s most promising golfing talent.
In recent years, highlights have included scholars Lorna McClymont and Louise Duncan joining the professional Ladies European Tour, and McClymont being crowned best female student golfer in the UK in 2023, and George Cannon the best male.
McClymont also won the 2022/23 R&A Student Order of Merit and two major amateur competitions – the Irish Open and Welsh Open.
Scholars have also enjoyed international success under Dean’s leadership – being selected for major team competitions, including the Arnold Palmer Cup, Curtis Cup and Vagliano Trophy; competing in competitions across Europe and the United States.
Notably, in 2009, Dean was Head Coach of the Arnold Palmer Cup Team.
Graduates of the University programme have also competed in the Walker Cup: Colin Dalgleish, Gordon Sherry, Richie Ramsay, Gavin Dear, Jack McDonald and Cormac Sharvin.
The University of Stirling is Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence.
The coveted high-performance golf programme has recently added a state-of-the-art indoor studio to its facilities , enabling the University's golfers to use data-driven insights to perfect their game.
Core sports include golf, triathlon, football, tennis, swimming, rugby and curling, while individual scholarships cover all Olympic, Paralympic and Commonwealth Games sports.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/news/2025/08/podium-place-at-major-european-triathlon-competition:
19 August 2025 Share
Isla Hedley wins bronze at the XTERRA European Championship
University of Stirling triathlete Isla Hedley has notched up another career milestone – achieving a podium finish at major off-road event, the XTERRA European Championship.
Isla – who is going into her second year studying a BA (Hons) French – put in a fantastic performance to finish third in the Elite Women’s race, held in Zittau, Germany, over the weekend.
After a 1.5k swim, 37k cycle and a 10k run, Isla completed the race with a time of 03:14:33, behind first-placed Solenne Billouin (France, 3:08:55) and second-placed Aneta Grabmuller (Czech Republic, 3:11:26).
Notably, Isla’s swim was the fastest of the day, with a time of 00:21:02.
Isla, 20, from St Andrews, is supported through sports scholarships from the University and from the national scholarship programme, Winning Students 100.
The podium place comes just weeks after Isla won the Under-23 category at the World Triathlon Cross Championships in Spain – and coach Marc Austin was full of praise for her latest feat.
Marc, Lead Coach of the National Triathlon Centre, a partnership between the University of Stirling and Triathlon Scotland, said: “Isla had a really strong race in Germany, and to come away with third place represents her best result in the off-road discipline so far.
“She’s clearly moving forward in terms of her performance too – improving on the Worlds earlier in the season and building on last year’s progress too.
Congratulations to Isla on her latest achievement – we’re excited for what’s to come next.”
Meanwhile, fellow triathlete Tom Williamson enjoyed success last month at the Para World Series in Montreal – putting in a strong performance to finish second in the PTS5 category.
Tom finished with a time of 00:57:32, just behind Stefan Daniel (Canada, 00:56:35) and ahead of third-placed Chris Hammer (United States, 00:57:42).
Core sports include triathlon, football, golf, tennis, swimming, rugby and curling, while individual scholarships cover all Olympic, Paralympic and Commonwealth Games sports.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties/arts-humanities:
The University of Stirling’s largest faculty has earned a reputation for delivering some of the most highly-rated Arts and Humanities courses in the country.
With a focus on innovation, exploration and creativity, our courses equip you with the range of skills you’ll need to transition into the field you’re most passionate about.
Whatever you study, you’ll be part of a vibrant environment defined by world-class teaching and research – a place where asking big questions, feeling inspired and forging independent ideas are all everyday occurrences.
We think you’ll fit right in.
With high student satisfaction rates, internationally renowned researchers and a wealth of full and part-time courses, the Faculty of Arts and Humanities is the perfect place for anyone who loves to explore, innovate and create.
Almost three quarters of our research was classed as world-leading or internationally excellent in the most recent Research Excellence Framework.
Take a closer look at our work.
Explore the forces that shape the past, present and future in our vibrant division of History, Heritage and Politics.
Our Law and Philosophy division is defined by stand-out teaching, research and student satisfaction rates.
Broaden your horizons by unlocking new languages and exploring the power of literature.
Our focus is on your future: 96% of our graduates were in employment or further study 15 months after graduation ( Graduate Outcomes 2020-21, HESA ).
Explore our wide range of scholarships at both undergraduate and postgraduate level – helping you succeed and achieve your future ambitions.
Top 5 in Scotland and Top 15 in the UK for Communications and Media
Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
2nd in Scotland for Media and Film Studies
The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top 15 in the UK for research impact in History
86% overall student satisfaction for Arts and Humanities
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2021
87% student satisfaction for Teaching and Learning in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties/natural-sciences:
The Faculty of Natural Sciences has an international reputation for high-quality natural science degrees and groundbreaking research.
Our natural sciences courses are highly-rated for their flexibility, practical training, and student satisfaction.
Many are accredited by leading industry bodies.
We pride ourselves not just for our world-class teaching but also for our passion and curiosity about science.
Study with the Faculty of Natural Sciences and you'll join a vibrant natural science community with a reputation for exploring new big ideas about technology, the environment, computing and the mind.
We bring together four areas of study, creating an innovative, cross-disciplinary approach to our teaching and research.
We tackle global problems of sustainable food security through innovative teaching and research.
Study critical questions about biology, people and the environment.
Our accredited degrees offer quality and excellence for your future career.
Explore mind and behaviour with our awarded-winning degrees and highly acclaimed research.
The Faculty of Natural Sciences research tackles global challenges in issues such as food security, changing environments, behaviour and evolution, digital economies and biodiversity.
The Faculty of Natural Sciences provide a number of biological, environmental and scientific consultancy services and specialised business services.
We also have a psychology kindergarten providing childcare and a statistics service.
for research impact in Agriculture, 
Veterinary and Food Science
Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021
Our expert teachers will give you the knowledge and practical training to give your career in natural sciences a lift-off.
We’ll inspire you to make an impact in real-world science.
Our programme enables students to link with mentors (alumni and employers) to enhance their knowledge of possible careers, while gaining a greater understanding of businesses and recruitment processes.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties/social-sciences:
We are a leading Faculty of Social Sciences and our rankings reflect this across our subject areas.
We're ranked 1st in Scotland and top 15 in the UK for Criminology, top 5 in Scotland and top 20 in the UK for Social Policy, and top 15 in the UK for Education (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
With a diverse range of globally recognised courses, we’ll help you to be the difference in your chosen career.
From sociology to education, all of our social science courses are taught by lecturers who are experts in their fields.
We deliver many courses that facilitate opportunities for you to gain widespread practical experience, promote postgraduate research, and allow you to achieve your ambitions.
Our research and teaching covers Dementia, Education, Housing, Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology, and Social Work.
Our 70 academic staff and researchers produce research that makes a positive social impact around the world.
Careers in social sciences
Studying with us will give you opportunities to connect with organisations, go on placement, study abroad and guide your personal and professional development.
We'll prepare you for your career in social sciences.
Explore how we're enhancing the lives of older people and people with dementia around the world.
We use our expertise in Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology to understand and improve society.
Education has a thriving community of staff, undergraduate and postgraduate students.
We will prepare you for a rewarding career in this important field.
The Faculty's Equality Diversity and Inclusion Committee works in a number of areas including protected characteristics (under the Equality Act), social class and gender.
The committee is comprised of academics, professional service staff and post-graduate researchers.
We proudly hold a bronze Athena Swan award for our commitment to gender equality, which involves delivering a five-year action plan on intersectional inequalities.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties/health-sciences-sport:
We're dedicated to transforming lives by improving the health and wellbeing of individuals, patients, carers and communities.
We offer innovative, award-winning BSc, BA and postgraduate courses in nursing, health science, sport, exercise science, psychology and coaching.
We tackle global issues with our world-leading research .
Study at the University of Stirling and discover how our degrees will prepare you to be the difference and transform lives.
100% of our research environment is world leading or internationally excellent
91% overall student satisfaction for Health Sciences and Sport
94% satisfaction with the academic content of courses for the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport
85% of sport students felt their course has enhanced their employability
91% of health sciences students felt their course has enhanced their employability

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties/stirling-business-school:
The University of Stirling Business School (USBS) is a centre of academic excellence that offers innovative, practical courses in business and management combined with research that makes a difference to business and society.
Our close links with business and industry and range of professional accreditations and memberships ensure that our teaching is relevant in the real world and tailored towards your future success.
The University of Stirling is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
AACSB International is the world's largest global standard-setting body for business education.
Only 6% of the world’s leading business schools achieve this accreditation.
This recognises our excellence in business education and societal impact.
With professionally focused courses across all business and management subjects, we have qualifications to suit every stage of your career.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate courses equip you with the knowledge you need to make a difference to businesses and organisations around the world.
As a Small Business Charter accredited institution, we are one of a select number of partners delivering the UK Government's Help to Grow: Management Course.
University of Stirling Business School expert Dr Najib Murad shares his insights on harnessing the power of data analytics - a key element of the Help to Grow Management Course.
We produce innovative research findings that make a difference to business and society.
Find out about our research in accounting and finance, economics, management, marketing and retail.
Our rankings and accreditations
Our reputation for excellence is reflected in our rankings.
About us
We want to change society for the better.
Engaging with business
We are proud of our partnerships with organisations of all sizes
AmplifyME Trading Boot Camp
Our Boot Camp simulates trading in financial markets.
Careers
We'll give you the skills and knowledge you’ll need for your career.
Staff directory
Find and contact our staff.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business/business-services:
Our business services can host any event with our wide range of event and conference venues, catering services and accommodation.
Our experienced in-house graphic design and print teams are ready to work with you on any marketing brief or business project.
The University of Stirling can accommodate any business event.
Businesses are welcome to use our meeting rooms, lecture theatres, conference suites, catering services and 460-seat auditorium.
Accommodation is also available at our 100-bed Stirling Court Hotel.
Commission our talented graphic design team, experienced in design for print and web, corporate and brand development, illustration, motion graphics conference and exhibition materials, advertising, accessibility, online advertising, interactive e-magazine design and typography.
Digital in-house print, and print management of litho, ensures the right print solution for your business project.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/communications-marketing-and-recruitment:
We enhance and promote the University’s reputation for academic excellence and high-quality research, telling our stories across a wide range of communications channels.
We provide a wide range of services to internal and external stakeholders and work closely with the University’s senior management team and across all faculties and professional support services.
By adopting an integrated holistic approach to our work, we ensure the University’s strategic messages are effectively conveyed and understood by our stakeholders across all communications platforms.
Our areas of responsibility include:
Our communications team is also the main point of contact for media organisations wishing to find out more about how the work of the University is making lives better across the globe.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/estates-and-campus-services:
The Estates and Campus Services team is responsible for looking after the University’s properties and grounds – from the longer-term development of our estate to the provision of day-to-day services related to facilities.
Estates and Campus Services also takes the lead in ensuring the University meets important legislative requirements around energy management and environmental sustainability.
Information on the University's safety policies, environmental commitments and more.
Reporting or collecting property lost and found on campus
See FAQs about parking on University grounds
Current staff and students can use the link below to access the full range of services Estates and Campus Services oversee, including:
Email: ECSAdmin@stir.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)1786 467111

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/finance-office:
The Finance Department strives to deliver a high quality service for its customers.
We help the University achieve financial sustainability to deliver its strategic objectives.
Find the key information on policies, procedures and financial statements.
The University's procurement service helps us secure best value in the acquisition of goods and services.
Find information about payment, invoicing, commercial terms and conditions, and more.
Find information about invoicing, payments, tendering and more.
Are you a current staff member?
Where current University staff can find information about payments, policies and procedures.
Salary payments are handled by our human resources department .
Whilst the Finance Office is responsible for research grant claims and invoices, research costings are handled by the Research Office.
You can also access our financial statements .
The University of Stirling is recognised by the Inland Revenue as a Scottish Charity no SC011159.
Our VAT Number is GB426828180.
3Z, Cottrell Building University of Stirling Stirling FK9 4LA

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/human-resources-and-organisation-development:
The Human Resources and Organisation Development team incorporates human resource (HR) services, organisation development and academic development.
We are responsible for the employment of some 1,500 staff at the University, providing advice and guidance on matters relating to their employment, and professional and staff development.
Find out more about available jobs and the wide range of benefits you'll enjoy working at Stirling.
All you need to know about your employment at the University - from your first day to your retirement.
Our priority is to develop a high performance culture which attracts and retains talented and ambitious staff.
Want an expenses or leave form?
Access forms for all human resource requirements.
Information about your pay, pensions, benefits, salary scales and rates as well as self-employment.
Supporting the University to achieve its strategic aims with staff training and Professional development.
This section contains a complete A to Z guide of all policies regarding your employment at the University of Stirling.
Staff health and wellbeing
We're committed to investing in the health and wellbeing of our community.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/information-services-and-library:
Information Services delivers the library, IT, digital learning technology and other information needs and services to enable all students and staff of the University of Stirling to learn, research and work here.
Our mission is to equip and empower our users and ourselves to function and achieve successful outcomes in the digital age.
We strive to achieving excellent customer service and always aim to exceed our users' expectations.
Library opening hours
See the latest library opening hours and access arrangements
Get in touch with the Information Centre for all your library and IT enquiries.
Stay up to date with all the latest news about the library and IS services.
If you’re a prospective student, researcher or member of staff, key details about Information Services at the University.
The Stirling University Library Catalogue is openly available on the web.
All staff and students of the university can access the electronic resources (e-books and e-journals) linked from the catalogue by logging into the university portal when requested.
Those without a university network account can still browse the collections, find out the location of books and administer their library borrowing record.
See the layout of the library and where to access key facilities such as study areas, printers, laptop loan and more.
The Stirling Campus Library operates an access control system but visitors are welcome.
Please call at Reception at the Library entrance to gain entry.
Visiting HE staff and students can access eduroam.
All others can access Guest Wi-fi.
Here you will find all you need about how we support research and what is available in the University archives.
Find out how to contact us, learn about our teams as well as our policy.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/internationalisation-and-partnerships:
We have established long-standing strategic international partnerships, promoting research and teaching excellence with a global impact.
These partnerships are fundamental to sharing our core values with similar organisations worldwide.
We support the development and management of a range of collaborative teaching, research and recruitment partnerships including:
We’re investing in developing new international partnerships, working collaboratively to help solve global issues and making a difference in higher education across the world.
Our international mobility team provides life-changing opportunities that give our students new perspectives and broaden their horizons.
We enhance the external profile of the University, and create global citizens with our reciprocal exchange and Study Abroad partnerships, our well-established International Summer School and bespoke English language programmes.
Interested in working with us?
We aim to grow and develop our high quality, sustainable partnerships.
If you’re interested in exploring partnership or teaching collaboration opportunities, please contact our team on internationalpartnerships@stir.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/services-for-business:
The ground-breaking research we conduct at the University of Stirling has the power to transform your business.
Whichever industry you’re in, the combination of your experience and our expertise can help you to grow in knowledge, tackle specialist projects and forge new global connections.
Take a closer look at the specific services we offer for business and industry below, and use our staff directory to connect with someone working in your field.
Impartial advice to support your business ventures.
Access our knowledge and state-of-the-art facilities.
Make the latest developments in research work for you.
Short courses
Boost your team’s skills with bespoke training.
Innovation and Enterprise
Got big ideas?
We can help make them a reality.
An inspiring space to grow your business in Stirling.
To find out more about how we can support your business ambitions, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services:
Student, Academic and Corporate Services (SACS) provide integrated and proactive professional services.
We plan, focus and support the university’s growth, ambitions and performance while also enhancing the applicant/student/graduate journey.
Offering key administration and information services for students throughout their studies.
Learn how we help to equip all our students for a bright future in the world of work.
Co-ordinating development, implementation and monitoring of policy and strategy.
Read about our counselling and money support services, accessibility policy and more.
Our student support team is here to listen and offer guidance throughout your studies.
Information for staff
If you're a current member of University staff, you can find out more about the structure and role of Student, Academic and Corporate Services.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business/business-services/conference-events-accommodation:
We host everything from meetings and training sessions to prestigious regional, national and international events.
Whether you're planning a business conference or organising a gala dinner, let us help make your event a success.
All our conference and event facilities are managed by University of Stirling Venues , our dedicated conference team.
They will support you throughout the preparation and on the day to ensure your event is a success.
Go to the University of Stirling Venues website for all the information you need to plan your event.
We have some of the most extensive meeting, event and accommodation facilities on site anywhere in Scotland, including:
Here at the University of Stirling we have a wide range of accommodation available all year round whether you're looking for conference accommodation or somewhere to enjoy a short break.
Whether you’re looking for a large conference or event venue, a little rest and relaxation, a dinner out with friends or a picture-perfect wedding venue, Stirling Court Hotel is a haven of Scottish hospitality.
We have over 1500 beds available from early June until early September.
This includes a range of brand new en-suite single and double rooms and larger double studios.
We also offer accommodation in our chalets and apartments that are perfect for group or family bookings.
The majority of our accommodation is located within the University’s 330 acres of beautiful parkland campus, with additional accommodation located in the City of Stirling.
With such a wide range of accommodation available there's something to suit everyone's holiday tastes.
You may wish to use the grounds within the University and/or use University facilities for an event or activity, such as:
Complete our grounds booking request form as early as possible to avoid disappointment.
We'll contact you within seven working days of receipt of the completed form to update you on the progress of your request.
We may ask you to provide additional information and/or a risk assessment to support your application.
A fee may be charged depending on the exact requirements of the request.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/our-chancellor:
The Rt Hon Lord Jack McConnell served as First Minister of Scotland between 2001 and 2007, before being appointed to the House of Lords as Lord McConnell of Glenscorrodale in 2010.
He became a Vice-President for Unicef UK in 2015.
Lord McConnell received the degree of Doctor of the University in October 2008, in recognition of his contribution to public affairs.
After graduating in Mathematics with Education, he taught Mathematics in local high schools between 1983 and 1992.
During his time as an undergraduate student at the University of Stirling, Lord McConnell served as President of the Students’ Union – from 1980-82 – as well as National Union of Students Scotland Vice-President, from 1982-83.
Between 1984 and 1993 he served as a Labour Councillor for Logie Ward on Stirling Council and as leader of Stirling District Council from 1990 to 1992.
This culminated in him serving as First Minister of Scotland, before being appointed to the House of Lords.
He was the Prime Minister’s Special Representative for Peacebuilding from 2008 to 2010.
Lord McConnell is the Founder and Chair of the Board of Trustees of the McConnell International Foundation.
He is involved as an ambassador, patron and board member of several international and UK-based non-government organisations.
In 2013, Lord McConnell’s political papers – ranging from early election leaflets to diaries from his period as First Minister – were received by the Scottish Political Archive, based at the University.
Lord McConnell’s installation as Chancellor took place at the University’s summer degree ceremonies in June 2019.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/our-principal-and-vice-chancellor:
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac has been Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Stirling since May 2010.
During this time, he has overseen a significant improvement in Stirling’s research and international presence and led the regeneration and development of the University estate.
Building on the organisational values, which are typified by the phrase ‘a place where ability not background is valued’, he has led the transformation of the student experience, enhanced the global reputation of the University and greatly extended the University’s reach, relevance and connectivity.
The University’s international connections have grown considerably under Sir Gerry’s leadership.
He led the creation of a joint venture with INTO University Partnerships, which resulted in a teaching centre for international students on campus and a significant increase in international student recruitment.
He also established a presence with the British Council in Shanghai and oversaw the development of transnational education with partners in the United Arab Emirates, Singapore and Hong Kong.
These build on and complement pre-existing transnational education initiatives in Vietnam, Oman and other countries.
The University’s internationally renowned research has been recognised with a Queen’s Anniversary Prize on two occasions; for its work on social marketing (2014) and aquaculture (2019).
In social sciences, support for dementia research continues to inform policy change globally and has resulted in partnerships with commercial companies.
Continued emphasis on increasing the University’s research capacity led to the University playing a critical role in delivering the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, signed in spring 2020, with £27m of funding from the UK and Scottish Governments being invested in University-led projects.
The Deal will see the development of Scotland’s International Environment Centre and a new Institute of Aquaculture on the University campus, further strengthening relationships with business and industry and placing the University’s innovation and expertise at the centre of efforts to tackle some of the most pressing challenges facing the world.
A £40m programme of investment in student residences, completed in 2015, has been followed by a £21m Central Campus development that will enhance research and learning facilities, and a £20m redevelopment of the University’s sports centre.
The emphasis on sport and in particular, the development of high-quality coaching and infrastructure have helped student athletes win medals at Olympic and Commonwealth Games and World Championships.
This strong track record was recognised with the University being Times and Sunday Times UK Sports University of the Year 2020.
Between 2020 and 2022, Sir Gerry held the role of Convenor of Universities Scotland.
The position saw him chair the group representing Scotland’s 19 higher education institutions at a crucial time, as the sector played a key role in supporting the nation’s recovery from the global coronavirus pandemic.
Sir Gerry also served as Vice Convener of Universities Scotland between 2016 and 2020 and is an active member of Universities UK.
Prior to his appointment at Stirling, Sir Gerry was Pro Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast from 2001 to 2010.
He has a background in science, and has undertaken research into both Space Physics and Carbon Dating.
He previously worked on the NASA Dynamics Explorer satellite programme at the University of Michigan, before becoming Director of the Carbon Dating facility at Queen’s University Belfast, where he undertook research into global carbon cycling and the dating of historic monuments.
Professor McCormac was knighted in the New Year’s Honours List 2021, for services to education and to the economy.
The Principal and Vice-Chancellor is the Chief Academic and Administrative Officer of the University.
The Principal presides over the Academic Council and, as Vice-Chancellor, deputises for the Chancellor and confers degrees in his or her absence.
As Chief Executive of the University, the Principal is responsible by Statute for the effective working and good order of the University.
With overall responsibility for the executive management and day-to-day activities of the University, the Principal is accountable to the Court for the discharge of his responsibilities.
The responsibilities of the Principal may broadly be defined as:
Mrs Seona Donald
PA to the Principal and Vice-Chancellor
PrincipalPA@stir.ac.uk +44 (0) 1786 467012

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/senior-officers:
The Rt Hon Lord Jack McConnell
Chancellor of the University
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac FRSE, FSA, FRSA, FHEA
Principal and Vice-Chancellor
Eileen Schofield
Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary
Professor Malcolm MacLeod BSc, PhD, FRSA, FBPsS
Senior Deputy Principal (Operational Strategy and External Affairs)
Professor Kirstie Blair
Deputy Principal (Academic)
Professor Paul A.
Townsend
Deputy Principal (Research and Innovation)
Professor Helen Scott
Deputy Principal (Education)
Professor Neville Wylie
Deputy Principal (Internationalisation)
Professor Terri Scott
Deputy Principal (Student Experience)
Joanna Morrow
Deputy Secretary and Executive Director of Student, Academic and Corporate Services
Jennifer Harrison
Executive Director of Communications, Marketing and Recruitment
Karen Lawson
Executive Director of Human Resources and Organisation Development
Rose Edwards
Executive Director of Finance
Professor Jayne Donaldson
Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport
Professor Alistair Jump
Dean of the Faculty of Natural Sciences
Professor Kevin Grant
Dean of Stirling Business School
Professor Iain Docherty
Dean for the Institute for Advanced Studies
Liam Spillane
Executive Director of Estates and Commercial Services
Dr Lee Zhuang
Executive Director for Internationalisation and Partnerships
Dr David Telford
Executive Director of Information Services
Cathy Gallagher
Executive Director of Sport
Linsey Dickson
Interim Executive Director of Research, Innovation and Business Engagement

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/university-court:
The University Court is the governing body of the University, working to the Nine Principles of Public Life in Scotland: duty, selflessness, integrity, objectivity, accountability and stewardship, openness, honesty, leadership and respect.
The Court is responsible for the following key areas:
The Chair of the Court is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of Court and ensures that the University is well connected with its stakeholders, including its staff and students.
The Chair ensures that Court members work together effectively and efficiently, and have confidence in the procedures laid down for the conduct of business.
Court maintains a Register of Interests into which members of University Court and officers declare any personal, business or other interest which may, or may be perceived by a reasonable member of public to, influence their judgement and the University’s decision making process.
Access the University Court's documents, agendas and minutes .
A copy of the summary report from the last review of Court Effectiveness is available here Court Effectiveness Report .
Induction is arranged for new members when required.
New members will be contacted about this to arrange suitable times.
For ongoing training the University makes use of AdvanceHE Governors Development Programme which provides opportunities for governors to continually develop their skills.
Details of courses currently being offered are available below:
Governor Development Programme (GDP) | Advance HE
Governance Handbook
University Calendar
Schedule of Reservations and Delegations
Court members - skills and experience required
Role of the Chair of Court
Statement of Primary Responsibilities
University Court Standing Orders
Guidelines for sealing documents
Emeritus status guidelines and application
The University recently undertook a process to appoint a Chair of its Governing Body, the University Court, in accordance with the requirements of the HE Governance (Scotland) Act 2016.
Report on Chair of Court Election for Publication
The University of Stirling's coat of arms dates back to November 1966 and, following application to the Lord Lyon, the University gained its University status by Royal Charter on 27 December 1967.
The coat of arms is reserved for ceremonial purposes, graduation certificates and the Principal and Vice-Chancellor's Office only.
The coat of arms may be described as an arched bridge topped by a tower and surrounded by open books.
The bridge may represent a governor or magistrate, the tower safety and guardianship, while the open books have clear associations with learning and knowledge.
The imagery portrays the University as an official guardian entrusted with the safekeeping of the process of imparting knowledge, whilst willingly serving the public.
On a more visual level, the three elements of the coat of arms may be interpreted as a reflection of the University’s striking location in a historic Scotland, suggesting as they do Stirling Bridge, the National Wallace Monument and the University itself.
Membership of Court is defined in Statute 9 in the University Calendar.
Chaired by a lay member, it comprises:
•    the Chair of Court (Senior Lay Member); •    the Vice-Chair of Court (Lay Member); •    up to eleven other Lay Members (including one member representing the alumni body); •    the Principal and Vice-Chancellor; •    the Senior Deputy Principal; •    three members nominated by Academic Council from among their own number; •    the Provost of Stirling; •    two students nominated by the Students’ Union; •    one member of academic staff elected by staff; •    one member of professional services staff elected by staff; •    one member of academic staff nominated by a trade union; •    one member of professional services staff nominated by a trade union.
The University Secretary and members of the Senior Management Team also attend Court meetings to provide information and advice when called upon.
Hamish Grossart
Chair of Court
Graham Hastie
Lay member from 2019
Professor Clare Wilson
Member of Academic Staff from 2023
Dr Deborah Keith
Lay member from 2023
Douglas Kearney
Elaine Watterson
Lord Provost of Stirling
Ellie Hammond
Vice President of Communities, Stirling Students’ Union - student member from 2025
Professor Gozde Ozakinci
Member of Academic Staff from 2024
Justine Pédussel
President of Stirling Students’ Union – Student member from 2024
Kenny Fraser
Lynne Marr
Dr Magdalena Ietswaart
Pamela Crawford
Member of Professional Services Staff from 2020
Susan Gordon Hardy
Lay Member from 2019
William Stancer
Lay member from 2022
Gary Fleming
Member of Professional Services Staff from 2022
The University Secretary has a direct reporting link to the Chair of Court for the conduct of governing body business and acts on the instruction of the Court itself.
The University Secretary is responsible for providing support to University Court to ensure it can discharge its duties, and all members of University Court and its committees have access to the University Secretary for advice and guidance about their responsibilities under the Charter, Statutes and Ordinances, including relevant legislation and the requirements of the Scottish Funding Council.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/our-students:
Our students are the pride and life of the University, and we thrive on their success in achieving great things in wider society.
We are ambitious in challenging them to use their knowledge to shape global communities.
We have 17,500+ students from 140+ nationalities studying with the University of Stirling globally, including 6,000 students in our growing postgraduate community.
Our award-winning and beautiful campus is full of life and activity with around 2,000 students living, studying and relaxing.
At Stirling, we’re a close-knit community.
Stirling is a place where everyone is treated with respect and where ability - not background - is valued.
We’re proud of the diversity of our students with more than 30% coming from an international background.
Every student who studies at Stirling for one semester or more is automatically a member of the Stirling Alumni Association .
The association has a global network of more than 110,000 former Stirling students in 180 countries.
This helps our students keep links with the University and each other.
Many of our students return to campus after graduation, either to continue with their education, partner with the University through their work, or develop their professional career as an employee of the University.
Study with us
Find out more about all the different ways you can study here.
Student life
At Stirling, we want you to have an unrivalled experience – you just have to take part in what's on offer.
International students
Be the difference and join our vibrant global community.
Get information specific to your country.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/honorary-appointees:
Honorary appointments are awarded to recognise an agreed contribution to teaching and research, or input through professional standing in the interests of the University.
By collaborating with us on a range of projects, our honorary appointees play a major role in helping the University achieve its strategic goals.
New appointees join a network of honorary appointees whose professional standing enhances our research, learning and teaching – equipping our students, graduates and staff with the knowledge to make a positive difference to the world.
Awarded to individuals who have regular and significant involvement with the University.
It is expected that nominees are of sufficiently high distinction either professionally or within research or teaching as outlined below;
Professionally -  they hold or have held within the last 3 years Directorships of other organisations
Research - they lead, or have led, in the last 3 years major research teams in other organisations.
It is anticipated that they will have sustained and substantial research outputs which are judged to be internationally excellent against the REF criteria, a history of attracting significant external research funding and successfully supervising doctoral students.
Professionally - they hold or have held within the last 3 years significant leadership position(s) within health/health and social care services.
They are a Registrant with General Medical Council (GMC) or Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) or Health Professions Council (HCPC) or Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) or registration with a national/international equivalent organisation.
Teaching - they lead or have led degree programme(s) which are particularly innovative in design or delivery.
They may have contributed significantly to pedagogical research, clinical expertise, curriculum design or the promotion of academic quality and standards and may be recognised at Senior or Principal Fellow level with the HEA.
Awarded to individuals who have regular involvement with the University.
Professionally - they hold or have held within the last 3 years a senior leadership position within another organisation(s)
Research - It is anticipated that they will have sustained and substantial research outputs which are judged to be internationally excellent against the REF criteria, a history of attracting external research funding and successfully supervising doctoral students.
Teaching – they are recognised as particularly innovative in the design or delivery of their teaching/programme.
They may have contributed to pedagogical research, curriculum design or the promotion of academic quality and standards and may be recognised at Fellow or Senior Fellow level with the HEA.
Professionally - they hold or have held within the last 3 years senior leadership position(s) within health/health and social care services.
They may have contributed to pedagogical research, clinical expertise, curriculum design or the promotion of academic quality and standards and may be recognised at Fellow or Senior Fellow (or above) level with the HEA.
Awarded to individuals who have regular involvement with the University usually through active and frequent participation in undergraduate or postgraduate teaching.
In particular nominees are expected to demonstrate achievements in research or teaching as outlined below;
Research - It is anticipated that they will have a sustained record of research outputs which are judged to be internationally excellent against the REF criteria and a history of attracting external research funding and successfully supervising doctoral students.
Teaching - they are an effective and innovative teacher.
They may have contributed to pedagogical research, curriculum design or the promotion of academic quality and standards and may be recognised at Fellow or Senior Fellow level with the HEA and capable of achieving recognised teacher status and externally recognised as an authority in the broader subject area.
Awarded to individuals who have regular involvement with the University usually through participation in undergraduate or postgraduate teaching.
In particular nominees are expected to demonstrate achievements in either professionally and/or research or teaching as outlined below;
Professionally - they hold or have held senior clinical position(s) within health/health and social care services.
Research - It is anticipated that they will have a record of research outputs which are judged to be internationally excellent against the REF criteria and successfully supervising doctoral students.
They may have contributed to pedagogical research, clinical expertise, clinical expertise, curriculum design or the promotion of academic quality and standards and may be recognised at Fellow (or above) of the HEA and capable of achieving recognised teacher status and externally recognised as an authority in the broader subject area.
Professionally - they hold or have held clinical position(s) within health/health and social care services.
Research - It is anticipated that they will have a record of research outputs which are judged to be nationally excellent against the REF criteria and successfully supervising doctoral students.
They may have contributed to pedagogical research, clinical expertise, curriculum design or the promotion of academic quality and standards and may be recognised at Associated Fellow (or above) of the HEA and capable of achieving recognised teacher status and externally recognised as an authority in the broader subject area.
Awarded to individuals who have involvement with the University, typically in research activities.
In particular nominees are expected to demonstrate achievements in research as outlined below;
Research - Evidence of a record of research achievement including the effective conduct of independent research, production of research reports and effective contribution to research teams.
Leading research activities for or on behalf of the university and/or practice.
Research - Evidence of a record of research achievement including the effective conduct of independent research, production of research reports and effective contribution to research teams in the university and/or practice.
The University considers suggestions from staff for the appointment of honorary staff through the procedure set out below.
Honorary appointees should be in a position to significantly improve a faculty’s capacity to produce high-quality research outputs, to generate research income, to engage in knowledge exchange or to play a role in public arenas.
Honorary appointments are not made to retiring members of staff in recognition of long or meritorious contribution, but in recognition of a continued contribution to teaching and research activities.
Nominees to honorary lectureships or fellowships will be academic, but honorary professorships are open to persons of distinction, who fill appropriate senior roles in other professions.
An honorary title is fixed term, typically awarded for three years and can be renewed.
It is expected that an honorary appointee will demonstrate a commitment to, and actively promote the objectives of, the University.
The University of Stirling Strategic Plan sets out the University’s objectives and articulates our vision, institutional priorities and the actions required to succeed.
Honorary appointments are not remunerated.
However, appointees will receive access to a number of benefits, for example use of library facilities and a University of Stirling email account.
Access to facilities and payment of expenses is at the discretion of the appropriate Dean of Faculty.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/support-stirling:
As a University of Stirling graduate, you’re part of a global community that is truly making a difference.
We’re leading the fight against tobacco-related harm in Asia and Africa, empowering communities through sustainable aquaculture research, and working to improve the lives of people with dementia.
In short, you can be proud of where you’ve come from, and you can also play a major part in our future.
There are two main ways our alumni choose to support the University: by giving financially, or by volunteering their time.
If you’d like to do one of those things as well, you’ll find more information below about specific causes and opportunities you can support.
We excited to announce that Stirling’s annual Golf Auction will be open for bidding on Friday 26 September at 12:00 (BST) / 07:00 (EST) and closes on Sunday 5 October at 20:00 (BST) / 15:00 (EST) .
Auction lots will include opportunities to play at some of the world's most prestigious courses at home and abroad.
Bidders will also be in with a chance of securing a round with some well-known faces, as well as a one-on-one training session with a world-leading coach.
Donate to a cause close to your heart by selecting one of the funds listed.
Support today’s students and help to enhance their University experience.
Help support students experiencing hardship during their studies.
Support students through their studies by donating to our scholarship fund.
Support research into dementia and help us to make a vital difference.
At Stirling, sport isn’t something we do.
It’s who we are.
Play a part in the rise of a future sporting icon.
Stirling’s golf programme is a powerhouse led by GB&I Walker Cup Captain, Dean Robertson.
Champion the next generation of home grown golf professionals.
Help to sustain the work of the University long into the future by leaving a legacy in your Will.
Mark a memory or recognise a loved one by contributing to our new campus garden
Support the development of our art collection and future exhibitions.
Share your knowledge
Spread the word about Stirling through a variety of opportunities.
Become a mentor
Give a University of Stirling student invaluable insight into the world of work.
Your contribution
Every gift you make – or time that you volunteer – touches the lives of many students and staff across the University.
Together we're making a real difference and changing lives every day.
Thank you.
Find out more about how you can help to sustain the work of the University long into the future by leaving a legacy in your Will.
Find out more about maximising your donation to the University through tax efficient giving.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/alumni-benefits:
As soon as you graduate from the University of Stirling, you automatically become a life-time member of our alumni community and qualify for a range of great benefits.
Take a closer look at the advantages of being a Stirling graduate below – from discounted gym membership to life-long career support, online discounts and more.
The Stirling Alumni Scholarship provides a discount for the first year of a Masters degree for students who have completed their undergraduate degree at the University of Stirling.
Claim an alumni discount on campus sports facilities, get deals on University accommodation and return to the library or Students’ Union.
Special events and reunions
We organize events globally to help you network and stay connected.
We can also help you plan your own alumni events.
Career support
Did you know you’re entitled to life-long support from our Careers service?
Discounts and offers
University of Stirling graduates can take advantage of great offers from a range of online retailers.
Claim yours now.
All our former students receive a print copy of our annual Stirling Minds Magazine.
Stay up to date with the latest news from the University, find out what your former classmates are up to and read how we’re impacting the world.
If you have any questions about the benefits on offer for University of Stirling alumni, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/alumni-networks:
Studying at the University of Stirling is an experience we hope you'll remember forever.
Our network of Alumni Ambassadors exists to keep your bond with the University alive no matter where in the world you end up.
Use our directory to find an Alumni Ambassador near you, and get in touch to find out what's going on in your area.
If you'd like to be an ambassador for a country not listed here, please get in touch by emailing alumni@stir.ac.uk .
Check our alumni Facebook, X, Instagram and LinkedIn accounts for more ways to connect fellow alumni around the world.
CHINA Catherine Ma Shanghai mayingying@yicai.com
CHINA Wendy Wu Shanghai luckyfish98@foxmail.com
CHINA Vicky Guo Beijing gyvicky@hotmail.com
CHINA Mr Ray Yu Shenzhen azurerain0725@gmail.com
CYPRUS Maria Hadjivassiliou Limassol m20_maria@hotmail.com
FRANCE Amanda Bouin Paris bouin.amanda@gmail.com
GERMANY Tanja Bruns Frankfurt tg-bruns@t-online.de
GERMANY Friederike Quantz Hamburg fquantz@googlemail.com
GHANA Maurice Obodai-Sai Accra gmosai@yahoo.com
GHANA Kofi Ntow-Kwaning Tema kofiboka@yahoo.co.uk
GHANA Isaiah Ofori Accra oforiisaiah@yahoo.com
GHANA Kwame Owusu-Arhin Accra q.arhin@gmail.com
GHANA Afua Gyane Tema afua.gyane@yahoo.com
GREECE Elpida Dimitriadi Nikea elpidadimitriadi@yahoo.com
GREECE Yannis Eliomarkakis Athens yannis.eliomarkakis@gmail.com
HONG KONG Jimmy Lam Lok Fu jimmybondslam@yahoo.com
HONG KONG Annie Fu Kowloon annie.suuk@gmail.com
HONG KONG Zoe Chu Mong Kok zoe_chu80@yahoo.com
INDIA Vignesh Sevugan Chennai vigneshwaran.sevugan@gmail.com
INDIA Arjun Narayanan Chennai arjunn.sivaraman@gmail.com
INDIA Anuj Aggarwal Delhi anuj.aggarwal.in@gmail.com
INDIA Bhavneesh Sharma Delhi bhavneesh.s@gmail.com
INDIA Sundeep Dawale Mumbai sundeep.dawale@gmail.com
INDONESIA Doni Wiroto Bogor doniwibisono99@gmail.com
ITALY Antonella Petillo Naples antonella.petillo@outlook.com
JAPAN Dr Benneth Esiana Tokyo benneth.esiana@outlook.com
MALAYSIA Foong Pei Shum Kuala Lumpur shumfp@gmail.com
MALTA Carmel Bonello Zabbar carmelbonello@hotmail.com
MAURITIUS Hashim Joomye Port Louis hashim.joomye@yahoo.com
NIGERIA Kevin Nwaobo Lagos kcnwaoba@yahoo.com
NIGERIA Kingsley Anyanwu Amuwo Odofin kingsleyanyanwu1@yahoo.co.uk
PAKISTAN Ahmed Javed Qureshi Lahore ahmed.javed1961@gmail.com
SINGAPORE Kitson Leonard Lee Singapore kleonard@singnet.com.sg
TAIWAN Jason Kai-Yi Chu New Taipei City brilliantchap@gmail.com
THAILAND Alan McAllister Bangkok siammac@gmail.com
THAILAND Saittachote (Mac) Pattananuphab Bangkok mcstirling31@gmail.com
USA (Minnesota) Ken Iosso Saint Paul ken.iosso@co.ramsey.mn.us
USA (New York) Steve Bedwell New York ctbbqscot@gmail.com
USA (Washington State) Jim Toland Kirkland grofaz@outlook.com
VIETNAM Hiep Duc Nguyen HCMC ndhiephp@yahoo.com
VIETNAM Van Trang Nguyen Hanoi vantrangnguyen1003@gmail.com
WEST INDIES Brian Stollmeyer Trinidad brian.stollmeyer@gmail.com
EDINBURGH Douglas Baxter stirlingalumnied@gmail.com
EDINBURGH Cameron Waddell stirlingalumnied@gmail.com
GLASGOW Douglas Baxter stirlingalumnied@gmail.com
NEWCASTLE Michael Stowe michaelstowe@outlook.com
STIRLING Maggie Roderick maggierroderick@yahoo.co.uk
Several academic faculties have developed subject-based alumni groups.
Listed below are divisions who are providing alumni services for their former students.
Faculty of Social Sciences The Faculty of Social Sciences is keen to maintain its links with graduates of the Faculty.
To this effect, they have introduced an Affiliated Scholar scheme for doctoral graduates of the Faculty since the beginning of 2008.
If you are interested in becoming an Affiliated Scholar, contact Janet McCurdie on j.h.f.mccurdie@stir.ac.uk who will send you a link to the application form.
If you are an ITE graduate they would also like to hear from you.
Faculty of Natural Sciences The Faculty of Natural Sciences have created a group on LinkedIn for their alumni .
Join to be kept up to date with the latest developments from the Faculty.
Film, Media and Journalism Studies Film, Media and Journalism Studies are interested in keeping in touch with former students.
Contact the department at stirling.media@stir.ac.uk to be kept abreast with latest developments.
Economics The Economics division is keen to make contact with alumni from its undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
For further information contact Dr Siobhan Lucey at siobhan.lucey@stir.ac.uk .
MBA Graduates The University of Stirling Business School have created an alumni group on LinkedIn specifically for those who have studied an MBA.
MSc Investment Analysis, full and part-time The MSc Investment Analysis programme has graduates in senior positions in UK industry.
The Course Administrator, Joanne Fairbrother, would like to speak with graduates and she can be contacted at joanne.fairbrother@stir.ac.uk
Stirling University Retired Staff Association is open to former and retired staff and their partners from any area of the University.
The association aims to maintain and strengthen in retirement the social and cultural links formed during the members’ working lives through events, outings, interest groups, lectures and projects, and to enhance the heritage of the University in the local area.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/events:
The Alumni Office helps to organise alumni events all over the world.
We also encourage and support the organisation of freestanding events and reunions by independent groups of alumni.
Take a closer look at what's coming up, and check out our archive for an overview of previous events.
If you'd like us to help you organise an event, please email alumni@stir.ac.uk .
Check our alumni Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn accounts for more news and event updates and to connect with fellow alumni around the world.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/our-alumni:
Students come from all over the world to study at the University of Stirling, and we take pride in seeing what they go on to achieve after graduating.
We have more than 110,000 alumni in 180 countries, and their stories form the fabric of who we are as a University.
Explore some of their testimonials and achievements below, and check out our timeline of key events from the University's history to see where we’ve come from and how our students have played a part in laying the foundations for a bright future.
Former students share how their Stirling experience has prepared them for the future.
See what your University of Stirling classmates are up to now and share your own message.
Meet some of our successful and influential alumni and hear their Stirling stories.
Meet our Graduates and Students of the year and learn about their outstanding achievements.
Share your story
You can submit your own story by completing our graduate story form.
The University and current, future and former students will really appreciate finding out more about what you've been doing since graduating.
Responses will be stored in a secure alumni database and you can amend your personal information at any time by updating your contact details.
Graduate story form
Update your details
Data protection
The University of Stirling was founded in 1967.
Take a look at our story so far.
It was announced that Stirling would be the site of a new university, following the
                                publication of The Robbins
                                    Report in 1963 which proposed a new university in Scotland
17 July
Professor Tom Cottrell (1923-1973) is appointed as the first Principal and
                                Vice-Chancellor
June
September
Building T70 (later renamed Cottrell Building) is opened in phases between 1970 and 1972
Musical acts Elton John and Pink Floyd perform on campus to large crowds of students
May
The central courtyard is named “Queen’s Court”
12 October
Opening of a golf course at Airthrey Castle and completion of a sports hall at the
                                Gannochy Centre
Jack McConnell, former First Minister of Scotland, was elected (and re-elected the
                                following year) as Student President
(renamed Stirling Court Hotel in 2014)
HRH the Princess of Wales officially opens the new Gannochy Tennis Centre and Wolfson
                                Laboratories in Aquaculture
University launches unique Master’s degree in Palliative Nursing Care, in conjunction
                                with Marie Curie Cancer Care Education (Scotland)
Actor Simon Shepherd cuts the first sod of the new £2m Iris Murdoch building, the home of
                                the Dementia Services Development Centre
Alumnus Lord John Reid returns to campus to deliver “a state of the union” address at the
                                annual Williamson Lecture
November
March
Installation of new Chancellor, BBC broadcaster, journalist and author James Naughtie in
                                the 40th anniversary year
2009/10 award from the Sunday Times, in recognition of “outstanding student experience
                                and record for innovation and high quality teaching”
4 March
Awarded for ground-breaking social marketing research in Higher and Further Education
Building on established links and friendships, this international celebration of culture
                                is now an annual event
February
First of the new style accommodation properties opened to students – Willow Court,
                                followed by Beech then Juniper in subsequent years
Campus hosts Team Scotland's Commonwealth Games preparation camp, and Stirling students
                                take home 1 Gold and 3 Silver medals.
July
Outstanding performance in REF2014 (Research Excellence Framework) sees the University
                                reach the UK top 40, and 5th place in Scotland, for research intensity
December
INTO University Partnerships Limited (INTO) is a global education partnering
                                organisation, delivering academic and cultural experiences in all areas of the
                                international student journey
University of Stirling Management School programmes gain accreditation by the Association
                                of MBAs (AMBA)
Stirling's Olympic swimmers return with 3 silver medals while student Gordon Reid takes
                                Gold in Tennis at the Paralympics.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/50th-anniversary-book:
You can buy a wide range of University of Stirling merchandise online.
Shop for gifts, clothing and more, and get your hands on our limited edition 50th anniversary book to rekindle memories of your time on campus.
Featuring insights from alumni, students and academics, this stunning collection of photography and writing tells the story of the University through 50 different objects.
Buy your copy
Students' Union shop

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/stirling-minds:
Our annual magazine is for alumni, staff, and friends of the University of Stirling.
See what’s going on at the University, read about our world-leading work and much more.
View the latest issue below or explore our archive.
Read our latest edition online: Stirling Minds 2022/2023
To receive a copy of Stirling Minds magazine, email alumni@stir.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/alumni/data-protection-policy:
The Development and Alumni Relations team is primarily responsible for alumni relations and fundraising at the University of Stirling.
The team complies with the terms of the University’s Data Protection Policy .
That policy applies to data held across the University for any purpose.
This page is intended to clarify storage, processing and usage of data by the Development and Alumni Relations team.
Selected personal information that you provide to the University will be held securely by the Development and Alumni Relations team for the purposes of alumni relations and fundraising.
This data will be used strictly in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 (the Act).
The Development and Alumni Relations team does not store any information that would be defined as ‘sensitive personal data’ under the Act.
These 8 categories of data are listed on page 3, paragraph 11 of the University’s Data Protection Statement.
This type of data may be stored in the student enrolment database (under terms described in paragraphs 12-15), but it is not used in alumni relations and fundraising work, and it is not accessible to Development and Alumni Relations.
The exception to this is cases where you provide us with such data for a specific purpose and allow us to store that information.
For example, information about a disability may be disclosed for the purposes of ensuring that access requirements are met when attending an event, with permission given to record those requirements for subsequent events.
The GDPR made a series of major changes to the rules governing data storage and processing.
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) oversees the implementation of these changes as they apply to legal systems in the UK.
The University of Stirling's Development and Alumni Relations team will process personal information relating to alumni on the grounds that it is in the 'legitimate interests' of the University to do this and is also beneficial to the individuals concerned (Article 6(1)(f) of GDPR).
This statement applies to external relations data, managed by the Development and Alumni Relations team, but other departments that may hold your information for different purposes may process data under different grounds.
The data you give us whether online, by email, telephone or post may be made available as appropriate to our academic and administrative departments, recognised University of Stirling alumni clubs and associations.
Under the GDPR, the above comments about data processing grounds will be considered when sharing data, to ensure that data subjects' wishes are respected and of course to make sure the data processing is lawful.
This internal data sharing is primarily done to allow University departments to engage with alumni and other contacts who fit a particular set of criteria (e.g.
geographic location, graduation year, subject of study).
Wherever possible, data shared for such purposes will be anonymised to leave only the information pertinent to the planned activity, with personally identifiable information being removed.
Primary responsibility for external engagement data remains with the Development and Alumni Relations team, whose staff will process communications on behalf of other departments, maintain data security, and process requests for removal from contact lists (or removal from the database itself).
We will not disclose your data to third parties without your consent, except where they are acting as authorised agents for the University for the above purposes or where we are permitted or required to do so by the Act.
We use alumni and stakeholder data to carry out fundraising activities to support the University of Stirling and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our fundraising operation.
In order to do so, the University may conduct research using publicly available data.
This data is used to assess the capacity of a particular individual, or organisation, to donate to the charitable purposes of the institution.
The University does not share data with third parties when carrying out this research, nor is any sensitive data involved.
Development and Alumni Relations utilises two applications that store data outwith the EU - Mailchimp and Typeform.
The former is occasionally used for email marketing, though we have largely transitioned away from this and onto an EU-hosted emailing system, provided by our CRM database provider (Blackbaud).
The database itself is hosted on remote servers within the EU.
Typeform powers our communications preferences survey, found on the alumni pages of the University website.
Both of those are hosted in the USA, and both providers adhere to the EU-US Privacy Shield standard, which has been approved by the European Commission as providing satisfactory protections for data subjects.
The Development and Alumni Relations team continues to monitor developments in this area of data security and law, and will cease to use the above providers if their protections no longer meet the required standards.
We will use the details you have given us to contact you by post, email or telephone about the full range of alumni activities and other relevant University activities or services, including:
You have the right to:
To exercise your rights 1-3 above, you should notify us in writing at:
Development and Alumni Relations, University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA.
or by email to alumni@stir.ac.uk
Find out more about accessing your information under point 4 .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/work-at-stirling/list:
Search all our current vacancies and find your next job at the University of Stirling.
If the right vacancy is not yet available for you why not create an email alert for jobs .
You can also find out more about the wide range of benefits you'll enjoy working at Stirling.
To create job alert simply enter your desired criteria into the search form at the top of the page then click the 'Set Job Alert' button above.
Fill in the form that pops out with your email address and desired contact frequency then click the 'Set Job Alert' button on the form.
You will have the choice to opt out of the alert in the email confirmation.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/work-at-stirling/work-life-at-stirling:
Working at Stirling goes far beyond the job offer.
We offer a friendly community and a great range of benefits to help you unlock your career potential and reach your ambition.
The University is located in the city of Stirling; the gateway to the Scottish Highlands.
The 330-acre campus encompasses a loch and the 18th-century Airthrey Castle.
It is undoubtedly one of the most attractive campuses in Europe; ranked 1st in the UK and top 10 in the world for campus environment (International Student Barometer (ISB) 2024).
We're investing in our future, including through our recently completed Campus Central and Sports Centre developments, to further enhance our world-class living, learning, teaching and research environment.
We want you to fulfil your career and personal development.
You’ll benefit from:
We provide a range of services and classes for your health and wellbeing.
The University is situated on a beautiful 330-acre campus just outside the historic city of Stirling.
The campus offers a peaceful yet stimulating environment with everything you need for a good work-life balance.
It boasts sports, academic, entertainment and cultural facilities as well as a loch, an Olympic-sized swimming pool and an 18-century castle.
We also have an ongoing programme of events and talks available to staff.
Stirling is located in the historic and geographical heart of Scotland with quick access to Scotland's two largest cities, Glasgow and Edinburgh, and beautiful wild scenery.
Both the city and the University share a friendly atmosphere and strong sense of community.
In and around Stirling, you’ll find a rich variety of shops, bars, restaurants and entertainment, all at a lower cost of living than the UK average.
Scotland is a diverse, friendly, outward-looking country with a high standard of living.
There are many reasons why living in Scotland is wonderful.
As well as excellent work opportunities, you will find friendly cities, beautiful scenery, good travel links and a great quality of life.
That’s why, for centuries, people from all over the world have been choosing to live in Scotland .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/work-at-stirling/how-to-apply-for-a-job:
We've tried to make our online job applications as easy as possible.
We suggest you read the notes below to help you make your application.
You can register for job email alerts .
Alerts can be tailored to suit your personal requirements.
We only accept online applications unless you have a disability which would prevent you from using a computer.
In these circumstances please contact Human Resources on 01786 467136 to arrange a suitable alternative application method.
The application process will time out if you’re inactive for 30 minutes.
You can save applications as you move through the process.
Failure to save a partly completed application may result in you losing some or all of the information you have entered.
Unless otherwise stated, posts will close at midnight on the advertised closing date.
When you first complete the full application process a ‘print’ option will be available at the bottom of the page beside ‘submit’.
You’re also able to print this via your jobs homepage.
If required, you should print the job description before the closing date of the job.
After the closing date the job description will no longer available on the website.
If you need access after this time, please contact jobs@stir.ac.uk .
Under the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, we check all employees, regardless of nationality, to prove your eligibility to work at the University.
To confirm eligibility, you’ll be asked to bring certain original documents to your interview and a copy will be taken.
If you’re not already eligible to live and work in the UK, and you meet government criteria, we may offer to apply for a Certificate of Sponsorship.
UK Visas and Immigration will then consider this application alongside your ability to meet other requirements.
As part of the application process, all applicants are required to disclose any criminal convictions.
Disclosure is dependent on the type of conviction.
Further guidance can be found in Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 information.
During the application process, you’ll be asked to provide equal opportunities information for monitoring purposes.
Every public statutory and non-statutory organisation which employs more than 150 employees has a duty to gather monitoring data on their staff.
Higher Education Institutions have a duty to encourage applicants to disclose this information, as it helps us to design our policies and procedures in line with equality legislation, and for the benefit of our staff and students.
Only human resources staff will have access to this data.
It is held confidentially and kept separate from your other application details.
The information is not seen or accessible by the selection panel and does not form part of the selection process in any way.
If you start work your equalities information will be transferred to your personnel record and, again, would be held in the strictest confidence for reporting purposes only.
In compliance with the Data Protection Act, your details will remain on record for a minimum of six months.
However you may choose for your details to be stored for up to two years to allow for future applications.
After you’ve applied for a vacancy you’ll be sent an acknowledgement email within 24 hours.
If you have not received your acknowledgement, log on to My Jobs Homepage to ensure that you have submitted your application correctly.
Please check your email account junk folder, as your email provider may flag emails sent to you as suspected spam.
Depending on the number of applicants, shortlisting can take anywhere up to four weeks.
Once shortlisting has been completed, you’ll be notified by email if your application has progressed to the next stage.
You’ll be told if you’re selected for interview.
Please ensure that you check your email account junk folder as your email provider may flag emails sent to you as suspected spam.
If you’ve been shortlisted but cannot attend the interview we can only reschedule in exceptional circumstances.
Contact the individual named in your invite correspondence as soon as possible to discuss this.
The decision to move the interview rests solely with the convener of the vacancy.
Expenses may reimbursed, subject to the University guidance as detailed on the Interview Expenses for candidates guidance document.
The interview process varies depending on the position you’ve applied for.
Interviews are normally carried out by a panel (which is dependent upon the level and type of post), meeting with your potential manager and some other key staff members.
They’ll ask you questions about your previous experiences and skills, and how these relate to the criteria.
In some circumstances you may be asked to give a presentation or undertake a practical exercise.
You will be given full details of any such exercise when invited to interview.
HR and OD Department University of Stirling Stirling, FK9 4LA

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/work-at-stirling/equality-and-diversity:
At the University of Stirling, we are committed to continuing creating opportunities for all of our staff to ‘Be The Difference’ within a culture of inclusivity, openness and fairness.
Inclusion is at the heart of our People Strategy , and we are proud to have taken a deliberate and sustained approach to tackling inequalities and building a fairer, more equitable workplace.
We are proud to hold an Athena Swan Silver Award - the national charter recognising best practice in advancing women’s careers in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine.
We do not tolerate harassment, victimisation or unjustified discrimination.
We aim to maintain a culture inclusive of all sections of society.
We see the promotion and mainstreaming of equality and diversity as integral to all that we do.
Our goal is to create and nurture a University culture and environment based on fairness, equality and cultural diversity:
HR and Organisation Development University of Stirling Stirling, FK9 4LA

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/work-at-stirling/international-job-applicants:
As an international university we welcome job applicants from all countries and nationalities.
We’re known for our welcoming and friendly approach and the contribution from our international students and staff is crucial to our continued success and global outlook.
We have to check that you're eligible to live and work in the UK before you start work.
We recommend that you use the UK Government’s website for visa and immigration information.
It outlines your options for visas and whether your family and dependents can live and work in the UK.
If you do not yet have eligibility to work in the UK, and you receive an offer of employment with the University, the offer will be subject to successful attainment of this requirement.
The UK immigration system have some restrictions in relation to who we are able to employ from non-EU countries on various grounds (see the UKVI website's section on working in the UK for further details).
Applicants from outside the EU need to apply for eligibility to work in the UK through one of the allowed immigration routes.
The majority of international workers coming to the University apply through the Tier 2 (Sponsored Skilled Worker) route, however there may also be other routes available to you, depending on your circumstances.
Contact us and we will be happy to discuss your options.
Following the UK voting to the leave the EU, we’ll continue to welcome applications from EU nationals as well as recruiting from around the world, subject to relevant immigration rules in place at the time.
The UK Government’s statement confirmed that, following the transition to leaving the EU, there will be no immediate changes, including the status and employment circumstances of non-UK EU citizens living here.
EU staff continue to retain the right to remain and to free movement under the current arrangements.
EURAXESS UK is a hub which aids researchers in their career development and supports researchers moving to different countries
A warm welcome, new career opportunities and a great quality of life await you.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-people/senior-officers/smt/eileen-schofield:
The Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary has overall responsibility for the University’s professional services, including internationalisation and partnerships, communications, marketing and recruitment, information systems, student and corporate services, finance, human resources and organisational development, sport, estates, research and innovation and commercial services.
She is also responsible for providing support to University Court, the University’s governing body and all of its committees.
The Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary is directly responsible to the Principal and Vice Chancellor for the management of more than 1,000 staff with an annual budget of approximately £38M, including commercial services, and works closely with the other senior members of academic and professional services staff to achieve the effective management of the institution.
Eileen was appointed as Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary in 2014.
Prior to this, she was the Deputy Secretary in Stirling, a post she held for 5 years.
Before then she was Director of Planning and Deputy Director of Policy, Planning and Governance at the University of Aberdeen.
Eileen is a graduate of Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen and holds a BA Business Studies.
Following graduation she qualified as an accountant and worked in several finance roles, culminating in the role of Senior Faculty Accountant for the Faculty of Medicine and Medical Sciences prior to moving into Planning.
Mrs Janet McCurdie
Personal Assistant to the Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary
UniversitySecretaryPA@stir.ac.uk +44 (0)1786 467018

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services/policy-and-planning/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/gender-equality/athena-swan-charter:
The Athena Swan Charter is used globally to support and transform gender equality within higher education and research.
The University of Stirling was awarded an institutional Athena Swan Silver award in 2024, validating our ongoing work and commitment to gender equality and inclusion.
This award recognises that the university has:
The Athena Swan Charter provides a comprehensive approach for institutions to assess their gender equality practices, identify areas for improvement, and implement positive changes.
Higher education institutions that participate in the Athena Swan Charter can apply for awards at both the institutional and departmental levels, acknowledging their commitment and progress towards creating more inclusive academic environments.
The University of Stirling has been a charter member since 2011.
In 2024, we were awarded an institutional Athena Silver Award, building on our work in 2017 when we were awarded the institutional Athena Swan Bronze Award.
View our Athena Swan Institutional Silver Award submission .
Some highlights from our most recent institutional submission include:
Several of our faculties and departments also hold Athena Swan awards:
If you want to find out more about our application, please contact us at equality@stir.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/getting-here/getting-around-campus:
Our campus is situated on a magnificent 330-acre estate, centred around a large loch and 18th-century Airthrey Castle.
All facilities are a short walk from each other.
If you cannot access the maps on this page, call or email us for directions.
Walking around campus is a great way to make the most of our beautiful campus all year round.
Find out more about the walking trails plus where to find some hidden places and cultural gems.
Getting around Stirling by bike has never been easier with nextbikes run by Santander Cycles Stirling.
Our campus has also been awarded Cycling Friendly Campus status.
If you have your own bike, there are plenty of spaces across Campus as well as three outdoor bike repair stations at Willow Court, Sports Centre and under the Link Bridge.
Trying to find a room in Cottrell Building?
This helpful video shows you how to find your way.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/getting-here/nextbike-bike-hire:
Santander Cycles Stirling offer high-quality and cheap bike rentals get staff, students and visitors local users, tourists and beyond to where they need to be in a sustainable and healthy style.
The quickest way to register is by using the free nextbike app - you can download it for free on the Nextbike website or from the usual app stores.
You can also register as a university student or staff member on the Nextbike website.
Once you've registered on the app, select your university to sign up for your campus membership offer.
Information on how to rent, park and return bikes can be found on the Santander Cycles Stirling's website.
You can rent a nextbike anytime, at different stations on campus, in Stirling or in 26 countries worldwide.
Location map and current bike availability for Stirling
Location map and current bike availability for Glasgow
Location map for UK and rest of world

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/welcome/international-students/travel/airport-collection:
Whatever your arrival dates are, you can pre-book your taxi with Stirling Taxis.
The taxi service will meet you at the airport and get you safely to campus.
Stirling Taxis is an external company (the University of Stirling does not provide this service).
There is a cost associated with using the taxi service, but you will receive a £5 discount on your taxi fare if you pre-book using the online form.
Just fill in the online form then Stirling Taxis will contact you to confirm your arrangements.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/students-union/venues:
Whether you’re looking for a laid-back place to grab a coffee or a bustling bar to hit with friends, the Students’ Union has got you covered.
Located right here on campus, every Union venue is run with students’ needs in mind and designed to offer safe, fun places you can call your own.
Take a closer look at Students’ Union venues below, and keep an eye on the upcoming events they’ll be hosting in the Students’ Union Event Calendar .
The We Love Coffee shop is the place to visit for delicious coffee, a Matcha or Chai tea, a range of other hot and cold beverages, tasty sweet treats, and savoury items.
Visit Venue based in the Students’ Union for wraps, loaded fries, burgers, tacos, and salads including plant-based options.
Many Students' Union events also take place here, find out more on the Students' Union website .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/students-union/merchandise:
Shop online or on campus and show your true colours with an iconic University of Stirling hoodie, sportswear or a wide range of unique gifts.
To get your University of Stirling merchandise you can:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services/policy-and-planning/legal-compliance/data-protectiongdpr/privacy-notices:
The University of Stirling (a university established in Scotland and registered as a charity with registration number SCO11159) of Stirling FK9 4LA, is a data controller in terms of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR).
All of your personal data will be treated strictly in accordance with the terms of the UK GDPR.
This means that confidentiality will be respected and that appropriate security measures will be taken to prevent unauthorised disclosure.
This privacy notice together with our (i) Data Protection Policy , (ii) Guidance Handbook , and (iii) any additional documents referred to within, sets out how and the extent to which the University shall process your personal data.
Please read these documents carefully to fully understand our views and practices regarding your personal data and how we will treat it.
If you have any questions in relation to the University’s processing of your personal data, please contact our Data Protection Officer .
For information about how and why we process your personal information please select the section relevant to you:
You have a number of rights in relation to the way we handle your personal information.
You also have the right to see any of the personal information about you held by the University, you can request this by making a subject access request .
The University strives to ensure that all personal data remain current and accurate.
If you become aware of any incorrect information held by the University, you have the right to request that this is rectified.
This should be done via the contact details in the relevant section above.
You may also have a number of other rights depending on the legal basis being used to process your personal data.
Details of the legal basis being used are included in the relevant sections below.
The rights available may include:
The availability of rights largely depends on the legal justification for processing (which are detailed in the relevant drop-down sections below).
The table below summarises when rights are available.
Requests relating to any of these rights should be sent to the Data Protection Officer.
For further information on Data Protection please see the Data Protection Policy and Guidance Handbook .
If you have any issues about this statement or the way the University has handled your personal data, please contact the University Data Protection Officer in the first instance.
If you are dissatisfied with the response from the University, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner’s Office .
For further information please contact the University’s Data Protection Officer:
Joanna  Morrow
Data Protection Officer
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA
01786 466940 data.protection@stir.ac.uk
We may amend our privacy notices from time to time.
If we make any substantial changes in the way we use your personal information we will notify you directly where possible or by posting a prominent notice on our website.
However, you should review these privacy notices on a regular basis to check for any changes made.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services/policy-and-planning/legal-compliance/data-protectiongdpr/privacy-notices/users-of-the-universitys-website:
The Privacy Notice for Users of the Website should be read in conjunction with the overall Privacy Notice.
This section outlines the information that we collect when you visit the Website and explains how the information we collect is treated.
By using the Website you consent to the collection and use of your personal information (where provided) in accordance with this privacy statement.
The statement is subject to change.
If we make any substantial changes, we will notify you by posting a prominent notice on this Website or, if appropriate, by emailing you.
The Website may contain links to and from the websites of third parties.
If you follow a link to any of these websites, these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies and the way in which they manage their data.
Please check these policies before you submit any personal data to these third-party websites.
Where you use our Website we will collect and process the following personal data about you:
We use personal data held about you in the following ways:
Purpose of Processing
Legal Basis
The personal data provided by you on our online enquiry web forms will be used for the purposes of processing your enquiry e.g.
dealing with a complaint, sending you a prospectus by post or email, reporting faults etc.
Consent.
You have the right to withdraw consent at any time without prejudice by contacting study@stir.ac.uk .
If you do withdraw consent, this will not affect the lawfulness of processing based on your consent before your withdrawal.
Any personal data you provide us in relation to joining the University as a student may be passed to our partners, QSES Enrolment Solutions Ltd.
Processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which you are a party or in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a contract.
We may not be able to process your application to study with us if you do not provide us with the necessary information.
To supply you with goods and services ordered via our online shop or to allow you to book events via our online shop/booking system.
We may not be able to supply you with the goods/services or allow you to book an event if you do not provide us with the necessary information.
To allow you to log into and use our My Portal system, an online service focussed on our students.
We may not be able to provide you with access to our My Portal System if you do not provide us with the necessary information.
To process payments you make via the Website for e.g.
tuition fees, invoices, goods/services/events.
We may not be able to process your payments if you do not provide us with the necessary information.
Provided you have consented at the point of us collecting your personal data/submitting the enquiry or prospectus web form, we may use your personal data to communicate to you relevant marketing information about the University and the University’s goods and services by mail, email, SMS, telephone, or targeted advertising on social media and other online platforms such as on Google.
This may include information on:
If you no longer wish to receive marketing information, please email study@stir.ac.uk .
You will also be given the opportunity to opt out of receiving marketing information on each piece of marketing information we send to you.
If you do withdraw consent, this will not affect the lawfulness of processing based on your consent before your withdrawal.
The University shall not sell or otherwise transfer your personal data to any third parties except as set out in this privacy policy which includes the following circumstances:
As a minimum, the University will retain your personal data for as long as is necessary to process and handle your enquiry, your request to purchase goods, services or book an event or pay outstanding invoices.
If you consent to us using your personal data for marketing purposes, we shall retain the minimum amount of information necessary to market to you until you withdraw your consent.
If our processing relates to student recruitment, we shall retain the information collected for as long as is necessary to fulfil that purpose.
Once personal data is no longer necessary, we shall securely remove it from our systems.
Transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure.
The University will do our best to protect your personal data, although we cannot guarantee the security of data transmitted to the Website.
Any transmission is at your own risk.
Once we have received your information, we will use appropriate organisational and security measures to prevent unauthorised access to your personal data.
The data that we collect from you may be transferred to, and stored at, a destination outside the European Economic Area ("EEA").
It may also be processed by staff or by partners operating outside the EEA who work for us or for one of our suppliers, agents, or partners.
By submitting your personal data, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing.
Countries outside the European Economic Area do not always have the same data protection obligations as we do.
However, we will take steps to ensure that your information is used by third parties securely and in accordance with the terms of this privacy policy.
Where you have been provided with (or where you have chosen) a password which allows you to access certain parts of the Website, you are responsible for keeping the password safe and confidential.
You must not share a password with anyone.
The Website does not automatically capture or store personal data from visitors to the Website, other than to log your IP address and session information.
We keep logs of the University's web server activity.
The University uses log files to analyse usage of our Website, and we may archive them in an anonymous format for historical records.
Session information that we analyse includes the time and duration of your visit to the Website, the files requested, and the browser used.
We may collect information (where available) about your IP address, operating system and browser type.
This is data about users' browsing actions and patterns.
It is used to inform improvements to the Website, for system administration, and to assist in providing the most relevant content to suit your requirements.
Our log files include IP addresses that are anonymised.
This information will only be accessed by authorised persons of the University or its partners.
For example, when we read an IP address for a student from India it will allow us to provide tailored information relating to scholarships relevant to students from India.
Or, if we read an IP address for a student from China it may allow us to provide information about visa applications relevant to students from China, etc.
Tailored information improves the user experience on our Website.
Our Website uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of the Website.
A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that is stored on your device.
Cookies may remain on your computer either for the duration of the session or they can be stored for longer.
You can configure most standard web browsers to refuse cookies – see changing your cookie settings .
There are several reasons why cookies may appear in your browser when you visit the Website.
Some cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems.
They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.
Other cookies enable us to measure and improve the performance of the Website or allow third-party providers to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites.
These cookies are placed on your device either by the University or by the third parties whose services we use as part of the Website.
The following categories of cookies are used on the University’s Website www.stir.ac.uk , and we may use some or all these cookies on stirlinguni.cn .
These lists of cookies were last reviewed on
The University's Website does not automatically capture or store personal data from visitors to the site, other than to log your anonymised IP address and session information.
Our Website cannot function properly without these cookies, and they can only be disabled by changing your browser settings.
These necessary cookies are required for the following activities, which have been identified as necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party.
We use anonymised analytics cookies from Google Analytics and Siteimprove to collect information about how visitors use our site.
We use this information to compile reports and to help us improve the site.
These cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the site, where visitors have come to the site from, what parts of a webpage are viewed most, and the pages they visited.
You can opt out of Google Analytics across all websites http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout
The University also uses Hotjar , an analytics and feedback tool which helps us to improve the usability of the Website.
Hotjar anonymously records users' mouse movements and interactions across the site and helps us understand the behaviour of our website users through tools such as heatmaps, recordings and surveys.
You can opt out of Hotjar across all websites .
We use marketing cookies to help us improve the relevancy of advertising campaigns you see.
Social media platforms set cookies for advertising or remarketing purposes: enabling us to serve more tailored advertising as well as helping improve our site for users.
We also use cookies for advertising.
Advertising companies use cookies to keep track of the ads you have seen, or the ads that your browser has been exposed to.
These cookies serve purposes such as measuring interactions with the advertising on a domain and preventing the same advertising from being shown to you too many times.
Opting out won’t stop you seeing adverts, and you will continue to see them, but they won’t be tailored specifically to you.
These cookies are set by third-party software that is used on the Website and they are not controlled by the University.
For example, we use a chat service provided by LiveChat, and LiveChat sets cookies to enable functionality of the LiveChat software on the Website.
Most cookies set by these products will be purely functional, but some may be for advertising or tracking.
These may include, but are not limited to, the list below.
Most web browsers allow some control of many cookies through the browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit https://ico.org.uk or www.allaboutcookies.org .
To control interest-based advertising from certain third-party advertising partners, you can learn more about opting out of receiving interest-based ads at optout.aboutads.info and https://thenai.org/opt-out .
You can also opt out of Google Analytics by installing Google’s opt-out browser add-on, and opt out of interest-based Google ads using Google’s Ads Settings .
In regions where GDPR laws apply, and your own browser settings have not blocked cookies automatically, our Website visitors are offered the ability to manage consent to Performance and Marketing cookies using a Cookie Control Tool on this Website.
Following your initial interaction with the Cookie Control tool, your settings can be accessed and changed again at any time via the cog icon in the bottom left of your browser.
All payment transactions are handled securely.
Areas of the Website that process online payments make use of, and transfer data to, third party software and service providers.
All third-party software and service providers that we use are compliant with the relevant Payment Card Industry standards.
For online donations, the contact details of the individual who has made the donation is held securely within the Development and Alumni Relations Team for the purpose of thanking them, to reclaim tax and to renew gifts.
If you have any queries or concerns about the website or the way cookies are used please contact webteam@stir.ac.uk If you have any queries about privacy or the way your personal data is handled please use the contact details in the University’s overall privacy notice where you can also find further information about your data subject rights.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/accessibility/accessible-documents:
This is the University of Stirling's policy for publishing accessible documents on www.stir.ac.uk.
The University publishes documents in a range of formats, including:
We want as many people as possible to be able to use those documents.
For example, when we produce a document we make sure to:
New documents we publish and documents you need to download or fill in to access our services will be fully accessible.
However, we know that some of our older documents (published before 23 September 2018) are not accessible.
For example, some of them:
This mostly applies to our archive documents.
These types of documents are exempt from the regulations, so we do not currently have any plans to make them accessible.
If you need to access information in one of these document types, you can contact us on webteam@stir.ac.uk and ask for an alternative format.
If you need a document we’ve published in a different format you can contact the relevant team or webteam@stir.ac.uk for an alternative option.
We’ll consider the request and get back to you in two days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of our documents.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or you think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the web team on webteam@stir.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
The University of Stirling is committed to making our documents accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
The documents the University publishes are partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
Some documents have elements that do not have sufficient colour contrast, for example where we have used white text over an unsuitable background image.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.3 (Contrast (Minimum)).
Some images in documents do not have a text alternative.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1: Non-text Content.
Some documents don’t use built-in headings and styles.
We plan to identify and fix these by the end of September 2022.
A few of our documents have diagrams.
These images do not have a text alternative, so the information in them is not available to people using a screen reader.
This does not meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
When we publish new documents we’ll make sure our use of diagrams meets accessibility standards.
PDFs and other documents
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents do not meet accessibility standards - for example, they may not be structured so they’re accessible to a screen reader.
For example, we do not plan to fix University Court minutes published before 23 September 2018
Maps
Maps are exempt from accessibility requirements but we will provide alternatives upon request.
We have around 5 PDF documents that we are working to replace.
We use our governance processes to make sure that no new inaccessible documents can be uploaded to the website.
We provide advice and information on the website on how to make documents accessible.
This page was prepared on 26 July 2022.
It was last updated on 26 July 2022.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/online-learning/online-short-courses:
Give yourself a competitive edge or learn a new skill in just a few weeks with an online short course from the University of Stirling.
Our online continuing professional development (CPD) short courses can expand your knowledge and equip you with practical skills.
Many of our online module classes can be taken together to build up towards a PgCert, PgDip or Masters qualification, at a pace that suits you.
Explore by subject area and find out what courses you can study online.
Online short courses generally last around 10-12 weeks.
University of Stirling online short courses are incredibly flexible.
Most of our online courses have live sessions.
Our online short course qualifications have the potential to further your career.
Many of our courses are modular, so you can take several short online short courses to build towards a PgCert, PgDip or Masters qualification.
Online short courses fees and funding
We have flexible payment plans so you can pay for your course in full or in instalments.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/undergraduate-tuition-fees:
The fee for each course can be found on the appropriate course page.
Your University tuition fees cover all your teaching, examinations and enrolment as a student.
We confirm what fees you’ll pay after you submit your application.
Your fee status will fall into one of these categories if you’re planning to study a full-time undergraduate degree course (excluding nursing):
If you are a nursing or paramedic science student, please see our section on Nursing and paramedic science fees.
If you’re a Scottish student, you won’t have to pay tuition fees.
The Scottish Government pays these on your behalf through the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) .
You must apply for this funding every year.
If you’ve had fees paid for a previous degree, or you’re repeating part of a course, you may have to contribute to the fee cost.
Please contact SAAS for advice.
If you live in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man, your fee status will be Rest of UK (RUK).
You can see the fees on each course page .
We offer scholarships for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland to help you with the cost of tuition fees.
You can also apply for financial assistance, including a loan, from your relevant funding body.
Students from the Republic of Ireland can apply to Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) for a loan to cover the cost of tuition fees.
Funding bodies
Students who have previously completed an undergraduate degree, generally will not be able to qualify for government support for a second undergraduate degree.
Studying at a UK university can be excellent value for money.
UK degrees are usually shorter and more intensive than university courses in the US and Australia.
You’ll pay an annual tuition fee, which will depend on the course you choose.
You can find specific fees for your degree on our individual course pages.
For fees and funding support please visit the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/undergraduate-funding:
If you're considering starting a degree course in the next year or so, you'll want to make sure you have your finances sorted out in good time.
We're here to help you find out if there's funding available to help you with tuition and living costs.
Undergraduate scholarships
There are two main types of loan you can apply for:
Scottish and UK students can also access additional grants to help with their individual circumstances, including childcare and disabled allowances.
You'll repay any student loan as a percentage of your income once your salary exceeds a certain threshold.
The threshold depends on your funding body.
If you are an international student we have a range of scholarships you can apply for.
A number of funding bodies and trusts provide additional student funding for a variety of reasons, including academic attainment, background and area of study.
You're classed as an independent student if you are 25 or over on the first day of your course, married or have supported yourself from your own earnings or benefits three years prior to the start of your course.
If you’re living in Scotland, you could be eligible to receive the Independent Students’ Bursary from SAAS.
The bursary is income assessed.
Unlike a loan, you don't need to repay the bursary.
You may also be eligible for other living cost grants, such as a Dependants' Grant, Lone Parent Grant and the Disabled Students' Allowance.
For guidance, contact the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) .
We can help if you run into financial problems.
Our Money Support team offer confidential financial advice, whatever your situation.
We also have access to discretionary and childcare funds.
Get more information from our Money Support team .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/nursing-and-paramedic-degree-tuition-fees:
Information on fees and funding for nursing and paramedic science students.
If you usually live in Scotland and meet the eligibility criteria, you do not need to pay tuition fees if you’re studying to be a paramedic, nurse or midwife.
Tuition fee grants for all Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery students are administered by Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
All students, new and returning, are required to apply to SAAS each year for their tuition fee grant.
All eligible students can apply for a bursary each year through the Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery Student Bursary Fund (PNMSB), administered by SAAS.
Further details of both the tuition fee grant and bursary can be found on the SAAS website .
Fees are payable by UK students who live outside of Scotland.
See our individual course pages for the specific fees.
All applicants from England, Wales, Northern Ireland or the Republic of Ireland who meet the conditions of their offer will receive our Nursing Scholarship and Access to Nursing Bursary , which is offered as a £2,000 fee waiver each year for Years 1-3 of study.
It can be combined with our Honours Year Scholarship , which covers the fees for the Honours year (Year 4) of study.
Fees are payable by EU and international students.
Study nursing and paramedic science at Stirling

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/postgraduate-tuition-fees:
The University of Stirling postgraduate taught fees cover the cost of registration, supervision of research and study, the use of academic facilities, and all your examinations.
Fees vary depending on your chosen course.
Please view our individual course pages for further information.
If you’re coming from overseas as an international student,  you’ll have a different set of fees to students from the UK.
Find out more about our international postgraduate fees.
All our postgraduate courses come with their own unique modules and coursework.
That’s why you may be asked to pay additional costs as part of your course, for example if field trips are required.
See individual course pages for any additional costs specific to your course
You may also need to pay additional fees if you want to retake a module or extend your study.
You can apply for generous PhD funding and Masters funding through your local funding body.
Also take a look at our wide range of scholarships and funding opportunities.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/part-time-tuition-fees:
If you’re a Scottish student you may apply for financial support from The Student Awards Agency For Scotland (SAAS) .
For details of part-time tuition fees and deadlines, see our individual course pages .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/international-student-tuition-fees:
Our tuition fees represent excellent value for money - giving you access to world-class teaching, supportive tutors and the facilities you need to achieve your potential.
Also, UK degrees are normally shorter and more intensive than in the US or Australia.
There are a few circumstances where you may need to pay additional fees, for example if you need to repeat an assessment.
See our Additional Fees page for more information .
You can pay your tuition fees prior to, or upon enrolment.
Details of full payment methods, including the option to pay in instalments, are available on our How to pay your fees page.
Need help with your tuition fees?
You may be eligible for funding support.
We also have some scholarships that are available exclusively for international students.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/additional-university-fees:
There are some instances where additional fees may apply.
Depending on your chosen course, you may need to pay additional costs, for example for field trips.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students who are required to repeat study will be charged their tuition fees pro rata based on the number of credits.
The same rule is applied if a student is required to take additional modules for any other reason such as changing degree programmes.
Example 1: A postgraduate student is required to repeat a 20 credit module to complete their studies.
In this case, as the annual course fee is based on 180 credits, the tuition fee for only taking 20 credits would be 1/9th (20 credits / 180 credits).
Example 2: An undergraduate student is required to take an additional module in an academic year and is taking 140 credits instead of the standard 120 credits.
In this case, there would be an additional charge of 1/6th (20 credits / 120 credits).
For postgraduate research students, if an extension is granted that results in the student entering a further year of the writing-up period then an additional enrolment-only fee will be due.
The fee for 2026/27 is £500.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/how-to-pay-your-fees:
At the University of Stirling we provide a range of secure payment options.
Your tuition fees can either be paid in full before or upon enrolment, or spread over a number of instalments.
You can make a payment to your account for tuition fees or an international tuition fee deposit by using one of the following options.
You, your parent or guardian, or any other third party you wish to pay on your behalf, can make a tuition fee deposit or payment online.
The payment goes into your student account within our student finance system.
We accept all major credit and debit cards (except for American Express).
Your student number and date of birth are required to proceed to the payment page.
If we’ve sent you an invoice, please use the ‘Pay a student invoice’ option .
Please read the online payment terms and conditions before making a payment.
Make a tuition fee payment online >
Flywire provides our UK and international students with additional payment methods in their local currency.
You can use Flywire to pay by UK bank transfer or if you cannot pay via the other methods described on this page.
Flywire offers students the following benefits:
Make a tuition fee payment via Flywire >
Flywire allows UK students to pay by UK bank transfer if they cannot pay via the other methods described on this page.
Nigerian bank account holders have the option of using TransferMate to pay their fees.
TransferMate offers the following benefits:
TransferMate allows you to make international payments without paying international banking charges while receiving competitive foreign exchange rates.
You can pay your fees via TransferMate using a simple three-step process:
Make a tuition fee payment using TransferMate >
Current students can make a partial payment or pay in full any invoice we have sent you in respect of tuition or any other miscellaneous fee.
You'll need your portal username and password.
Go to the payment section of the student portal >
We discourage you from carrying large amounts of cash and advise you to pay your tuition fees by another payment method.
If your share of the tuition fee liability is £250 or more you may be eligible to opt for one of the following instalment schemes at enrolment.
The scheme lets you pay your tuition fees in instalments to spread the cost over a longer period.
If you pay a deposit towards your course, this will be deducted from the total amount of fees that you have to pay.
Please select which type of student you are to see the instalment options available for you.
You can pay the remaining balance of your fees in four instalments, every two months, after completing enrolment.
Alternative instalment dates are available if your start date is not September or January.
These dates will be presented to you as part of your online enrolment.
For any queries relating to the payment of tuition fees, please contact Income.Office@stir.ac.uk .
Option 1
Pay your remaining tuition fee balance in three equal instalments at the start of each semester.
Option 2
Students who can set up a Recurring Card Payment (RCP) at the time of enrolment can pay their remaining tuition fee balance over 12 equal monthly instalments:
You can pay the remaining balance of your fees in three equal instalments at the start of each semester.
You can pay the remaining balance of your fees in two equal instalments at the start of each semester.
Students who can set up a Recurring Card Payment (RCP) at the time of enrolment can pay the remaining balance over 8 equal monthly instalments.
To pay your fees in instalments you may set up a recurring card payment (RCP) plan.
This allows us to take payments from your credit or debit card when your instalments are due.
You can choose to set up a recurring card payment during the enrolment process.
You can also email the Income Office at income.office@stir.ac.uk to request to set up a recurring card payment.
Once you have set up your recurring card payment plan, you'll receive an advance notice email for each invoice.
This will detail the exact dates and amounts when your payment(s) will be taken.
All successful payments will be shown on the credit or debit card statement that you get from your card provider.
If a payment fails, we will email you to say that we'll try to take the instalment a second time within the next five days.
If the second attempt fails, the instalment must then be paid immediately using another payment method.
You'll need to change your card details if:
Update your card details >
You can find out more about terms and conditions , and online payment terms and conditions .
Accommodation fees
Our preferred payment method for rent is direct debit and it can be paid in one, two, three or nine instalments.
Contact our Income Office.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/tuition-fees-policy:
1.
The purpose of this policy is to set out the tuition fee liability that applies to students upon enrolment on a module or course/programme of study.
2.
The policy relates to:
The policy does not relate to:
This policy replaces the 'Tuition Fee Refund Policy' and applies to students who began their studies in 2019-20 or later.
3.
All students bear personal liability for the tuition fees associated with any module or course/programme of study for which they enrol.
4.
Students who are considering leaving their programme of study are encouraged to first make contact with the University for advice and guidance before making a decision to leave.
Find out what support is available if you are thinking of leaving .
5.
In all cases, where a student withdraws from or discontinues their studies, or is granted a period of leave of absence from their studies, the date of withdrawal/discontinuation/leave of absence is used by the University in calculating tuition fee liability.
6.
For students who are sponsored, in the event of the sponsor not making payment in respect of the tuition fees, the student will be personally liable for the payment.
7.
Students funded by the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) will not be liable for tuition fees if they withdraw before 1 December.
The full annual tuition fee will be paid by SAAS for all students in attendance at 1 December.
8.
Students funded by the Student Loans Company (SLC) will be liable for payment of either 25%, 50% or 100% of the tuition fee loan, in line with SLC policy.
For undergraduate students starting in September this is 25% if withdrawal takes place before the autumn mid-semester reading week, 50% if between the autumn mid-semester reading week and before the spring semester starts, and 100% thereafter.
9.
The tables below set out a summary of the policy that the University will apply when calculating tuition fee liability for self-funded / sponsored students who withdraw or discontinue their studies, or who take a period of leave of absence from their studies at the University:
Students invoiced on a course/programme basis:
Students who withdraw discontinue or take a leave of absence from studies
Tuition Fee Liability
Within the first three weeks of the official start date of the programme or the date of enrolment, whichever is the later
10% of the annual course/programme fee
After the first three weeks and by 31 January for programmes starting in September and by 30 June for programmes starting in January
60% of the annual course/programme fee
Thereafter
100% of the annual course/programme fee
Students invoiced on a module basis:
Within the first three weeks of the official start date of the module or the date of enrolment, whichever is the later
10% of the module fee
100% of the module fee
10.
Postgraduate research students who withdraw, discontinue or take a period of leave of absence, will have their tuition fee liability charged on a pro-rata basis, based on months of study, rounded up to the nearest full month.
11.
Only in exceptional circumstances will the University consider reducing a student’s tuition fee liability or refunding a portion of tuition fees paid.
12.
A student can apply to have a request for a reduction or refund considered by the University using the "Tuition Fee Liability Reduction or Refund Application Procedure", and applications will be considered on their individual merit.
13.
Applications for a reduction in liability or a refund of tuition fees are not normally considered on the basis of:
14.
Where a student undertakes an approved period of leave of absence and therefore a temporary suspension of their studies is put in place, the student remains liable to pay any outstanding fees which may be due at the point of suspension of studies.
15.
The University offers students the opportunity to pay tuition fees in instalments via an agreed payment plan.
Students who withdraw, discontinue or take a period of leave of absence are required to honour their agreed payment plan until their tuition fee balance is cleared.
16.
If it is determined that a student has over-paid tuition fees to the University, or if a refund is approved, any refund amount will be first offset against any debt the student has to the University (e.g.
accommodation, parking, library) before being refunded.
If you require any further information regarding tuition fee refunds, please e-mail us.
To help us deal with your enquiry, please quote your student number in your e-mail.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/important-information-for-applicants/terms-conditions:
P l e a s e select the appropriate year to read the terms and conditions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/important-information-for-applicants/student-code:
The mission of the University of Stirling is to be an institution of distinction that is ambitious, accessible and self-reliant, and whose purpose is to develop these qualities in our students, staff and the communities we serve.
The University is committed to providing one of the best student experiences in the UK, and to creating a community in which our students can succeed and achieve their potential.
In doing this, we work in partnership with both students and the Students’ Union, and undertake significant external engagement with local, national and international communities, business networks and industry contacts.
We consistently aim to support your studies and ambitions and in all our activities, the University strives to ensure that we consistently put the interests of students first.
As part of our commitment to the student experience, the University aims to create a community that is based on support, transparency, and a culture of respect for equality and diversity.
In line with this, we expect that as a student, you will conduct yourself in a way that is consistently appropriate within the University community, and in terms of the Student Charter.
The Charter is designed to ensure that you are well informed about your responsibilities as a student of the University of Stirling, and applies to all students, and across both physical and virtual environments.
In enrolling as a student at the University, you are required to agree to abide by the Charter.
In addition to the Student Charter a number of other University policies and codes set out specific conduct requirements.
These relate to areas including (but not limited to):
The Students’ Union also has a range of policies in place that relate to student conduct, and specifically to discipline.
These can be accessed on the Students' Union website .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/important-information-for-applicants/admissions-policy:
The University of Stirling is committed to admitting students on the basis of their merit and potential to succeed and who will contribute to our welcoming, supportive, inclusive and culturally diverse community.
This policy covers admission to both undergraduate and postgraduate study and information in this section is relevant to all applicants.
The University of Stirling is committed to the following Admissions Principles:
The University of Stirling’s Admissions Policy is directly aligned with the University Strategic Plan.
It complies with the Quality Assurance Agency UK Quality Code for Higher Education and the Universities UK Admissions Code of Practice.
In addition, it complies with guidelines from Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS), the Equality Act (2010), the Data Protection Act (2018) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as retained by the laws of the United Kingdom following Brexit (UK GDPR).
The University Admissions Policy covers admission to all undergraduate and postgraduate study and is valid for admission to courses in academic year 2025/6.
The policy is developed and monitored by Admissions and Access on behalf of the University and is approved by Academic Council.
Admissions and Access are responsible for all relevant policies and procedures and ensuring that they are applied in a consistent and fair manner, complying with legislation and good practice guidance.
Admissions and Access staff have delegated authority on behalf of the University to make admissions decisions for undergraduate and taught postgraduate courses.
Admissions and Access are responsible for processing all applications and notifying applicants of the admissions decision.
Applicants who have been offered a place and who wish to defer their offer have one opportunity to defer.
This can be either to the next intake i.e.
September or January (subject to course availability), or to the next academic year.
The University reserves the right to make an offer for an alternative course.
The University reserves the right to withdraw an application or an offer at any point in the admissions process or to refer cases for further investigation.
This includes if any part of the application is found to be falsified, plagiarised or the applicant fails to provide the required information or documentation within the requested timeframe.
Where an offer is withdrawn due to falsified documentation or information, there will be no refund of any monies paid to the University.
Students who have previously withdrawn from, or have been withdrawn by the University can apply for re-admission.
The University reserves the right to refuse re-admission including those who have been disciplined and/or expelled under Ordinance 2, Code of Student Discipline.
Re-admission decisions will be taken in consultation with the Education and Student Experience Committee.
The University will consider extenuating circumstances that may occur during the admissions process, either before or after an offer has been made.
This may be on medical, disability or compassionate grounds, as well as other personal circumstances where there is verifiable evidence of the impact on the ability to study.
Admissions and Access assess international qualifications and make decisions on appropriate international equivalencies.
These equivalencies are based on information provided by the UK ENIC, the designated United Kingdom national agency responsible for the recognition and comparison of international qualifications and skills.
The University has a licence to sponsor international applicants who require a visa to study in the UK.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) are the UK government body which has responsibility for who has the right to study in the UK.
The University as a licence holder can only sponsor students to study at the University who meet the conditions as set out in the relevant UKVI guidance.
Applicants requiring a student visa must declare all previous periods of study in the UK.
Applicants from outside the UK, EEA or Switzerland who wish to study certain subjects may require to apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) Certificate .
The University will advise applicants whether they are required to apply for this certification.
If ATAS certification is denied and an applicant is in receipt of a conditional offer then the University will reject the applicant on failure to meet a condition of offer.
Any applicant who has ATAS certification rejected will not be admitted by the University to an alternative programme of study.
The University teaches and assesses students in English.
If English is not an applicant’s first language, the University will require evidence of their English language skills, in each of the four competencies; reading, writing, listening and speaking.
Specific English language requirements are listed on each course page on the University website.
The University adheres to guidance on English Language issued by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) in order to sponsor students to enter the UK.
This guidance is subject to revision.
The University accepts a wide range of evidence of English Language tests and evidence.
Read further information on English Language .
The University recognises prior learning and this may be used in the following ways:
Funding arrangements vary according to country of residence.
Applicants who are liable to pay fees will be required to pay for each year of study.
Fees are payable at the point of enrolment and may be subject to revision.
Further information on fees .
Fee status is determined using the regulations approved by the Scottish Parliament, the Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022.
The University determines fee status according to nationality and (where someone is ordinarily resident) based on information provided in the application.
Additional information may be requested in order to make an assessment.
The University makes offers on the basis of fee status and may withdraw the offer if the fee status changes.
If you are unclear about your fee status, please complete this form and upload it to your applicant portal ensuring that you upload this against the document type of Fee Status Assessment Form.
Failure to upload as this document type will mean your form will not be identified as available for Admissions & Access to review.
Fee Status will not be re-assessed following student registration, except in exceptional circumstances.
Applicants from outside the UK and who will need a student visa will be required to pay a tuition fee deposit on acceptance of an offer.
Applicants who require a student visa will require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) in order to enrol at the University.
Applicants who require a student visa will require a Confirmation for Studies (CAS) in order to enrol at the University.
For further information please see International Student Visas and CAS Issuance Guidance for new students .
Applicants who will be under the age of 18 when applying for a student visa are required to submit a parental/legal guardian consent letter for UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) before being issued with a CAS.
For further information please refer to Children Immigration Rules on GOV.UK .
Applicants acknowledge that the number of CAS the University is able to issue is dependent on the number of CAS allocated to the University by, and at the discretion of, the UKVI.
In the event that the University determines (at its sole discretion) that it is unable to issue the Applicant with a CAS due to insufficient CAS numbers being allocated to the University by the UKVI, the University may withdraw the offer and refund the tuition fee deposit in accordance with the Tuition Fee Deposit Refund Guidance and Form.
Other than as stated above, the tuition fee deposit is non-refundable unless there are mitigating circumstances which are detailed in the Tuition fee deposit refund guidance and form .
Applicants who have commenced the enrolment process must contact the enrolment team in order to withdraw and commence the refund process.
The University welcomes applications from those with different circumstances and seeks to ensure appropriate support arrangements and reasonable adjustments are made prior to students commencing their studies.
Applicants are encouraged to declare a disability on the application, which will be used to identify support requirements and will not be part of the academic decision to make an offer of admission (Equality Act 2010).
Further information on accessibility and inclusion
All applications are assessed in accordance with the University’s equality and diversity commitments and obligations as set out in its Equality and Diversity Policy and in line with the latest professional guidance.
Further information on equality and diversity
The University strives to create a safe and welcoming community for our students, staff and visitors.
We are committed to the rehabilitation of offenders and understand the role of higher education in supporting that process.
In order to facilitate a safe environment and protect the University community, the University will collect and record information from our applicants and offer holders on any relevant, criminal convictions that they may have.
Applicants who declare a criminal conviction will be required to provide full details of the conviction(s) which will be anonymised and passed to the Fitness to Practice Panel or relevant Academic Panel to consider a full risk assessment before confirming the admissions decision.
The academic admissions decision is taken separately however if the decision is not to admit the applicant on the basis of the criminal conviction, the University reserves the right to withdraw the offer.
The University also has a requirement to know if an applicant or offer holder or is under investigation by the Police or where Criminal proceedings are underway.
It is the responsibility of the offer holder or applicant to report this to the University by emailing admissionschecks@stir.ac.uk .
Further information: Guidance and advice on criminal convictions and Protection of Vulnerable Groups Scheme membership for applicants .
Applicants for healthcare programmes (leading to professional registration) who declare criminal conviction(s) will have their case considered at a Faculty Fitness to Practise Panel.
Further information can be found in our Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport Fitness to Practise Applicant Policy
Admissions and Access are responsible for referring applicants for further consideration to a Fitness to Practise Panel if their Disclosure Scotland PVG certificate contains any offences.
The Panel will assess whether an applicant's character and/or conduct is compatible with undertaking a course of study leading to professional registration.
Applicants for healthcare programmes (leading to professional registration) must also be passed as fit to practise by Occupational Health.
This will require submission of a questionnaire and an interview.
Occupational Health can reject an applicant on the grounds of disability and/or health.
The decision to reject on these grounds is final.
The University is a data controller in terms of the Data Protection Act 2018 and UK GDPR.
All personal data will be treated strictly in accordance with the terms of the Data Protection Act 2018 and UK GDPR, respecting confidentiality and ensuring appropriate security measures are taken to prevent unauthorised disclosure.
The University is only able to share information to a third party (e.g.
a parent, guardian, advisor or agent) with the written consent of the applicant.
Further information is available in the Privacy Notice for Applicants to Study .
The University is committed to fairness and transparency in its admissions process and will respond to requests for feedback on unsuccessful applications.
All feedback will be given in writing and in accordance with Data Protection legislation, will be directly with the applicant.
No information will be released to a third party without the prior written consent of the applicant.
All requests should be made in writing, providing full name, student number or UCAS Personal ID and the programme of study applied for and sent to admissions@stir.ac.uk
Appeals against an admissions decision will only be considered where there is significant additional information, which for good reason was not made available during the application or selection process and is directly relevant to the admissions decision.
Applicants or their representatives who are dissatisfied with the service provided by Admissions and Access should refer to the University Complaints Procedure.
This procedure cannot be used to change an admissions decision.
Further information about complaints .
University courses, services and procedures are continually reviewed, enhanced and revised and this may result in changes to or cancellation of courses.
Where any changes or cancellations occur, the University will inform the applicant.
The University student terms and conditions apply to all applicants and prospective students, both undergraduate and postgraduate.
Further information on the student terms and conditions .
Information in this section is relevant to applicants for all undergraduate study.
Applications for undergraduate study should be submitted to the Universities and Colleges Admission Service (UCAS).
Applicants who are regarded as International for tuition fee purposes and who only want to apply to the University of Stirling, can apply directly through course pages on the University website.
The University believes in a diverse student population and welcomes applications from those with non-standard qualifications, with prior experiential learning, and from access routes into higher education.
Typical entry requirements are published in the university prospectuses, website and a range of third party sites, including UCAS.
To study at the University, each applicant needs to meet the general entrance requirements.
Some courses may have subject and/or grade specific requirements.
Admissions and Access work with faculties to evaluate entry requirements and selection criteria as part of the programme approval process.
Undergraduate entry requirements are approved by the University Strategy and Policy Group.
The University considers the applicants predicted and actual academic achievements, taking into account the subjects studied and the grades.
It will also check for competence in any specific subject(s) required for particular courses and some course will have a secondary selection process, for example an interview.
The University will also consider the context in which these qualifications have been achieved.
The University is under no obligation to make an offer of admission even if the applicant has met the entry requirements.
The following information will be given consideration when making an admissions decision:
The University adheres to the UCAS deadline for equal consideration for Home/EU undergraduate applicants, which will be 26 January.
Rest of UK (RUK), international and those using the Common Application can apply up until the 30 June.
Applications for Clearing and Adjustment open on 30 June and if places are available, they will be advertised on the University website.
The University operates a ‘gathered field’ admissions process which means applications are considered after the application deadline.
It is used for specific programmes of study which are high demand and also where places for Home undergraduates are capped by the Scottish Funding Council.
The University will use a rolling admissions process where there is no specific cap on the number of students who can be admitted to a programme or where there are no restrictions on the number of places available for EU,  international or Rest of UK (RUK) undergraduate applicants (except for courses with a secondary selection process).
This means that applications will be processed on an ongoing basis.
UCAS applicants have an option to enter a point of entry against each of their five course choices.
The University will consider applicants for the point of entry that is entered on the application form and is under no obligation to consider the application for different point of entry.
Applicants applying through UCAS and undertaking the International Baccalaureate, Scottish Highers, Advanced Highers and A-Levels who are undertaking those exams in the same year of entry as their University course may not require to provide copies, as they are verified by the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Applicants with other qualifications are required to produce scanned copies of original documents for qualifications obtained either as part of the application process or at the request of Admissions and Access after an offer has been made.
Applicants who require a student visa must take original documentation to their UK Visa Immigration interview.
In addition, applicants who require a student visa must provide:
The University recognises that not all applicants have the same opportunities and is committed to admitting students from a wide range of backgrounds.
The University will use contextual information alongside the UCAS application to assess the applicant, taking into account their personal and educational circumstances.
Applicants from the following categories may be considered for an offer at the minimum entry requirement:
For SQA Higher qualifications, the minimum entry requirement is adjusted by two grades.
SQA Higher
typical
entry requirement
minimum
AAAB
ABBB
AABB
BBBB
Other qualifications from school and college will be considered as well as combinations of Highers and Advanced Highers.
The term care experienced refers to anyone who has been or is currently in care or from a looked-after background at any stage in their life, no matter how short, including adopted children who were previously looked-after.
This care may have been provided in a one of many different settings such as in residential care, foster care, kinship care, or through being looked-after at home with a supervision requirement.
The University is committed to supporting applicants who are care experienced and will guarantee to make an offer of admission, or an offer of an interview to those with the potential to meet the minimum entry requirements for a course.
Wherever possible, this will be for the specific course applied for, but this may not always be possible on courses with high demand and limited places, or where intake numbers are strictly controlled by the Scottish Government, for example Primary Education or Paramedic Science.
In these circumstances, the University will endeavour to offer an interview or a place on an alternative course in a related subject.
Further information for care experience applicants .
Estranged students are those who have no contact with their family or key family member.
The University provides support throughout the student journey for all estranged students.
The University welcomes applications from a range of approved access courses which are specifically designed for mature applicants with few or no formal qualifications and who have been out of education for more than three years and are over the age of 21.
Further information: Advice and guidance for mature students
The University welcomes applications from those with caring commitments.
Applicants who looks after a family member or friend who is ill, disabled, or suffering from an addiction are strongly advised to notify the University at the point of application.
Further information: Young and adult carers
Information in this section is relevant to applicants for all postgraduate study.
Applications for postgraduate taught courses should be submitted  directly via the University of Stirling website.
The University believes in a diverse student population and welcomes applications from those with non-standard qualification and with prior experiential learning.
Postgraduate entry requirements are agreed and reviewed annually.
Requirements are published in the university prospectuses, website and a range of third party sites.
It will also check for competence in any specific subject(s) required for particular areas of study and some course will have a secondary selection process, for example a piece of written work.
There are no application deadlines for postgraduate taught courses and applications will be considered throughout the year.
Some courses may close earlier than others due to application volumes and course capacity.
Applicants are required to produce scanned copies of original documents for qualifications obtained as part of the application process or at the request of Admissions and Access.
Applications for research degrees must be submitted directly to the University.
There are no deadlines and applications can be submitted throughout the year.
Submission of a research proposal is part of the application process and an offer of a place will be dependent on the availability of suitable supervisory and resource arrangements.
Further information on how to apply for a postgraduate research degree .
Admissions and Access June 2022

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/important-information-for-applicants/criminal-convictions-and-protecting-vulnerable-groups:
The University of Stirling strives to create a safe and welcoming community for our students, staff and visitors, and a safe environment in which students can study, live and work.
We are also committed to widening access and within this, recognise the important role that higher education has in the rehabilitation of offenders.
In order to facilitate a safe environment, protect the University community, and ensure the suitability of applicants for a course of study, the University collects and records information on relevant criminal charges and convictions from applicants who have received an offer of admission to the University and from current students.
This information is collected, used, and retained in line with the Criminal Charges and Convictions Policy and Procedure .
We hope that the guidance provided in the following Frequently Asked Questions is helpful.
If you would like any further guidance, please contact us using one of these points of contact:
Applicants: admissionschecks@stir.ac.uk
Current students: studentcasework@stir.ac.uk
Can I apply for a place on a course at the University if I have a criminal charge or conviction, am under investigation by the police or have criminal proceedings pending?
Yes, you can apply to the University.
When will I be asked about any criminal charges or convictions?
If you have applied for a professional programme of study which involves regulated work with children and/or protected adults we will ask you at the same time that you apply.
If you have applied for any other programme, we will ask you about any relevant criminal charges and/or unspent criminal convictions at the point we make any offer of admission.
Beyond the admissions process, current students of the University are asked about relevant charges and criminal convictions every year during online enrolment.
Outwith these points where the University asks applicants and students about criminal charges and convictions, it remains the responsibility of students to advise the University of any relevant criminal charges or convictions that are confirmed against them as soon as possible.
Students should contact studentcasework@stir.ac.uk .
What criminal charges or convictions do I have to disclose?
Professional courses which involve regulated work with children and/or protected adults are exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and therefore if you are applying for this type of course, you will be required to declare criminal charges and all convictions including spent and unspent, and should include sentences and cautions (including verbal).
For any other courses, applicants are required to disclose relevant criminal charges and/or unspent convictions.
More information on the types of criminal charges and convictions that are relevant to the University is provided in the Criminal Charges and Convictions Policy and Procedure .
What is a spent conviction?
The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 classifies individuals as being rehabilitated after a specified time period, provided they do not receive any further convictions.
The time period will depend on the sentence received and the UK country the conviction occurred in.
Once the rehabilitation period has passed, convictions become ‘spent’ which means there is no longer a requirement for it to be disclosed to employers or other organisations.
Some convictions are never considered to be spent.
Nacro: Spent and unspent convictions – what are they?
When is a conviction unspent?
In Scotland, if the relevant rehabilitation period has not passed, a conviction is considered unspent.
The length of this period depends on the sentence imposed.
Convictions attracting custodial sentences of over 48 months imprisonment are never unspent.
Why do I need to complete a Protecting Vulnerable Groups scheme membership application?
For professional course which involve regulated work with children and/or protected adults your chosen profession is exempt from the rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and you will require to declare all charges, spent and unspent convictions, sentences and cautions (including verbal).
In addition, you will be required to complete and become a member of the Protecting Vulnerable Groups (PVG) membership scheme.
This helps make sure people whose behaviour makes them unsuitable to work with children and/or protected adults cannot apply to do regulated work with these vulnerable groups.
When you apply for PVG membership Disclosure Scotland will carry out a criminal record check and share that with the University and you.
What if I am applying from outside the UK?
If you are applying from outside of the UK you are required to engage with the University’s arrangements regarding criminal charges and criminal convictions in the same way as other applicants, and your information is considered in the same way as that of a UK resident.
Additionally, for applicants who live outside of the UK or who have been resident outside the UK in the previous five years, evidence of a current criminal record check is also required from the applicant’s home country/overseas country of residence along with a Certificate of Good Conduct or Police Certification.
Who will see information on my criminal charge or conviction?
Information provided by applicants/students is held securely on the University’s systems and access is strictly limited to members of staff who are required to see it.
The information provided, and other information relevant to the considerations undertaken by the University of any charges or convictions declared, will be retained in line with specified data retention timelines and where information is not to be retained permanently it will be securely destroyed.
Information is collected, processed and retained by the University in line with the University of Stirling Privacy Notices for Applicants, Students and the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) / the Data Protection Act 2018.
Find out more about the University’s privacy notices .
How will information on my criminal charges and convictions be considered?
Criminal charges and convictions information is only used to inform considerations and make decisions about admission to the University and/or action required as appropriate in respect of a current student, to enable the University to maintain a safe learning, living and working environment, and the University will only ask for the information necessary for these purposes.
What decisions about my criminal charges and convictions can be taken in relation to my application?
Within the admissions process, the outcome of the consideration of declared information will be one of the following decisions:
Where it is decided that an applicant is unsuitable to join the University community or be a member of the relevant profession, Admissions and Access will withdraw the application or offer of a place and the applicant will not be entitled to enrol as a student of the University.
Can I request a review of a decision made regarding my criminal charges and convictions through this procedure?
Applicants can request a review of a decision made through this procedure only if there is significant additional information provided which, for good reason, was not made available at the time of the decision and is directly relevant to the decision, and only within 14 days of the notification of the outcome decision.
Any such request should be prepared in writing and submitted, along with the significant additional information, to studentcasework@stir.ac.uk
I did not have a criminal charge or conviction at the time I was made an offer for admission; do I need to tell you about a new criminal charge or conviction?
If you have not yet enrolled as a student of the University, you should inform the Admissions and Access team by contacting admissionschecks@stir.ac.uk with full details.
I am a current student do I need to tell you about a new criminal charge or conviction?
Yes if you are an enrolled student you are required to inform the University of any relevant criminal charges and convictions you receive after you have been admitted to the University.
On a continuing basis, you can provide such information to the University via studentcasework@stir.ac.uk .
In addition, as part of the annual enrolment process, current students are asked to declare any relevant criminal charges and criminal convictions.
Relevant criminal charges and convictions held by enrolled students are considered in line with the University’s student disciplinary procedure – Ordinance 2, the Code of Student Discipline .
What happens if I fail to declare a criminal charge or conviction to the University?
If you fail to disclose a criminal charge or conviction the University reserves the right to withdraw your application and/or any offer of admission that has been made to you.
If you are an enrolled student, you may be subject to action under Ordinance 2, the Code of Student Discipline (the University’s student disciplinary process).
A range of information can also be obtained via these organisations:
Disclosure Scotland - mygov.scot
Citizens Advice Scotland
Nacro: Applying for university and schools

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/study/important-information-for-applicants/international-student-visas-and-cas-issuance-guidance-for-new-students:
This document is to provide guidance for the University of Stirling’s sponsorship of international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
It specifies the conditions that govern the issuance of Confirmation for Acceptance of Studies (CAS).
The CAS is essential to obtaining a UK Student visa, and this guidance sets out the procedures for issuing CAS to new students, including eligibility requirements.
The Admissions & Access team is responsible for assigning CAS to new students starting at the University of Stirling.
A CAS can be assigned no earlier than six months before the official course start date for new students who are outside the UK, and three months before the course start date for new students who are inside the UK.
The University will use its discretion when issuing CAS close to the start of the course, but will generally not issue CAS less than two weeks before the latest start date of each semester.
CAS can be issued to applicants if they have:
The University may choose to make additional checks to ensure it only assigns a CAS to offer-holders who will be successful in obtaining their visa.
This may include:
The University will not assign a CAS in the following circumstances:
The number of CAS the University is able to issue is dependent on the number of CAS allocated to the University by, and at the discretion of, the Home Office each year.
In the event that the University determines (at its sole discretion) that it is unable to issue a CAS due to insufficient CAS numbers being allocated to the University by the Home Office, the University may withdraw an offer and refund the tuition fee deposit in accordance with the Tuition Fee Deposit Refund Guidance.
The University reserves the right to withdraw a CAS in certain circumstances and at any point after issuing the CAS, including if any aspect of the application is found to be fraudulent or plagiarised.
The University will not normally provide sponsorship to an applicant who has breached the conditions of a previous visa, unless there were exceptional mitigating circumstances.
These will be considered on a case by case basis by Student Immigration Services.
Any offer-holder who receives a visa application refusal is required to provide all pages of the refusal notice to the University as soon as possible after the decision, and details will be reported to the Home Office.
The Admissions & Access team will only assign a new CAS following a visa application refusal if there is little to no risk of a second visa refusal.
To obtain a new CAS, the applicant is required to submit new supporting documents to Student Immigration Services, which will be assessed for their eligibility to meet Home Office requirements.
A second CAS will not normally be assigned to an applicant who receives a visa application refusal due to failure to meet the credibility requirements (i.e.
demonstrating a genuine intention to study).
If an applicant does receive a second visa refusal, the University will not normally assign a further CAS unless there are exceptional mitigating circumstances.
The University reserves the right to withhold issuing a CAS to any applicant or student who has received a visa application refusal.
Admissions & Access/Student Immigration Services, April 2024

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/why-stirling:
Our inclusive, multicultural environment offers you a welcoming and supportive space for you to learn.
Join the University of Stirling and we’ll prepare you for a lifetime of achievement alongside fellow students from more than 140 countries.
Whatever you choose to study, you’ll benefit from our high-quality teaching and internationally recognised research.
Studying at Stirling can broaden your horizons and open global opportunities.
You’ll be able to make friends from across the world and learn from diverse cultures and perspectives.
We’re a globally connected University.
87% of the University's research has an outstanding or very considerable impact on society (REF 2021).
We’ve been awarded 5 Stars in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024 for our teaching, employability, global engagement, research, facilities and environmental impact.
Our small class sizes help to ensure you benefit from world-class teaching from our leading academics.
Join our truly global community.
With over 140 nationalities on campus, we offer a diverse and multicultural student experience.
More than 30% of our students are international and we have partnerships in 65+ countries.
The thriving International Society means you can make friends easily.
We’re also 1st in the UK and top 10 in the world for campus environment (International Student Barometer (ISB) 2024).
After you graduate, you’ll join our 100,000+ alumni in more than 160 countries.
We have excellent ratings for graduate employability.
96% of our graduates were in employment or further study 15 months after graduation (Graduate Outcomes 2020-21, HESA).
All our courses strive to improve your employable skills, as well as give you an internationally recognised qualification.
We’re committed to equipping you with life-long career management skills.
Many of our courses offer hands-on experience and unique opportunities to work with industries across the globe.
A Hollywood-worthy setting, our beautiful 330-acre campus has acted as the backdrop to major films and television series.
It’s one of the most scenic campuses in the UK, with its own loch and plentiful green spaces, placing picture-postcard landscapes right on your doorstep and giving you room to ease into University life.
You’ll enjoy studying and living here.
There’s a wide range of accommodation and everything you need is a few minutes' walk – from food outlets and sports facilities to our on-campus theatre and cinema.
The city of Stirling is a small city framed by beautiful natural environments and green space.
It has been rated by The Complete University Guide 2024 as the safest student city in Scotland .
Located in central Scotland, Stirling has great transport links to the rest of the country: both Edinburgh and Glasgow are only 45 minutes away by road or rail.
Living costs in Stirling are also relatively affordable compared to other cities in Scotland and the UK.
Find out more about what Scotland has to offer .
Our class sizes are often smaller than what you’ll find at other UK universities.
This can make it easier for you to participate in classes and contribute your ideas, than in larger groups.
It will give you confidence in your studies and help you build relationships with your teachers at the University.
We offer a supportive environment for you to achieve your potential.
If you have a passion for sport, choose Stirling.
We’re Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence, and we're 1st in the UK and top 5 in the world for sports facilities (International Student Barometer 2022).
Our excellent facilities include an Olympic swimming pool, tennis courts and gym.
We’re home to the National Tennis Centre and National Swimming Academy.
If you’re looking to improve your fitness or simply have fun, we have a variety of recreational sports clubs you can get involved with.
Flexibility is built into our curriculum.
For many undergraduate degrees in Years 1 and 2, you’ll be able to study a range of subjects across a variety of disciplines.
This means you can study the things you’re passionate about or try a completely new subject that complements your main degree.
Whatever you choose to study, it all counts towards your final degree.
At the University of Stirling we want you to continue to expand your knowledge in areas that interest you.
For entry onto most of our Masters courses, you could have studied a completely unrelated undergraduate degree.
This allows you to develop your education and career in a new direction.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/international-entry-requirements:
Select your country/region below to find details of the international qualifications we accept for undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
Please also check the specific grades and essential subjects required for your chosen course by checking our individual course pages .
If English is not your first language, you must provide evidence of your English language skills .
For a complete list of the English language qualifications we accept, including where we are able to waive an English condition based on certain local qualifications, please see our English Language requirements .
For more information, please have a look at the relevant course page or contact our Admissions and Access Team at admissions@stir.ac.uk .
If your country/region is not listed or you have specific questions about your qualifications then please email our International recruitment team at international@stir.ac.uk .
If don’t meet the required academic or English-language criteria for entry onto our degrees, University of Stirling International Study Centre's integrated academic programmes offer progression to a wide range of undergraduate degrees.
Certificate of Secondary School Education, with an average 4.0/5.0, plus completion of a recognised Foundation programme.
Find out more about the University of Stirling's Foundation programmes .
Diplomë e Nivelit të Pare / Bachelor with a minimum of 8/10
We usually require school leavers from Argentina to complete a Foundation Year for entry to undergraduate study.
Minimum of 6/10 in the Licenciado/Licenciatura.
Minimum of C+, 2.3/4, 60% or 13/20 in a Bachelor degree (bakalavri astichan) (awarded from 2005) or Specialist Diploma (diplom masnageti)
Year 12 with average grades of at least 70%.
Minimum of Second Class, Lower Division/Credit/Division B/Division 2 in a four year Bachelor's (Honours) degree.
Reifeprüfungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis
A minimum score of 2.0 (gut) in all subjects.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 2.0 in any essential subject.
European Baccalaureate
An overall score of 60-70%, depending on the course.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 70% in any essential subject.
International Baccalaureate
For the full diploma, the overall points requirement depends on the course you are applying for.
For some courses you will need certain HL subjects.
Full details are on our course pages.
Applicants must have a minimum score of HL5 in any essential subject required for the course.
We also accept the IB Career related programme (IBCP) with qualifications equivalent to at least 3 A-Levels.
Applicants must have a minimum score of HL5 in any essential subject required for the course, or a suitable BTEC where appropriate.
We can also consider applicants taking a combination of IB certificates and other qualifications, such as A-Levels, BTECs, or APs.
Please contact admissions@stir.ac.uk for further guidance.
A levels
Minimum of BBB.
Check course pages for essential subjects.
Minimum average of 3.0 in a Bachelor's degree or Fachhochschuldiplom/Diplom (FH).
We usually require school leavers from Azerbaijan to complete a Foundation Year for entry to undergraduate study.
We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study.
Minimum of 71% or 3.9 in a Specialist Diploma or Bakalavr degree.
We usually require school leavers from Bahrain to complete a Foundation Year for entry to undergraduate study.
Minimum GPA of 2.7/4 in a Bachelor's degree from Bahrain.
We usually require school leavers from Bangladesh to complete a Foundation Year for entry to undergraduate study.
We accept applications from graduates of Bangladeshi Higher Education Institutes recognised by UK ENIC (formerly UK NARIC).
Applicants must have either:
We usually require school leavers from Belarus to complete a Foundation Year for entry to undergraduate study.
Minimum grade of 5/10 in a Specialist Diploma.
We require a minimum of 70% or 7.0 of 10 (overall) in one of the following qualifications:
You must have a minimum score of 70% in any essential subject required for the course.
We also accept:
Minimum of 12/20 or 60% in one of the following qualifications:
Minimum of 8/10 in the Diploma Visokog Obrazovanja / Diplomirani (Advanced Diploma of Higher Education / Bachelor degree)
For more details please contact Admissions and Access at admissions@stir.ac.uk or on +44 (0) 1786 467044.
Average of B in a Masters degree from a Botswanian institution.
Completion of High School with average grades of 8.5/10
Minimum of 6.5/10 or equivalent in Titulo de Bacharel / Licenciado / Professional title (4 years).
Minimum of BBC at A level for entry to most undergraduate courses.
Some courses may have additional subject specific entry criteria.
Minimum of a second class, lower division Bachelor's degree (Honours).
Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie
5 in all school leaving and state maturity examinations and 5 in all final year subjects.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 5 in any essential subject.
Minimum of 4/6 in a Bachelor's degree or Professional Bachelor's degree.
Minimum GPA of 3.0/4 or 70% in a Masters degree from a Cambodian institution.
We usually require school leavers from Cameroon to complete a Foundation Year for entry to undergraduate study.
Minimum of 12/20 in one of the following qualifications:
Canadian High School or Secondary School Diploma with an average of 75% in Grade 12.
Minimum 2.8/4 or 70% or B in a Bachelor's (Honours) degree or a Professional Degree.
Minimum of three two-unit courses in the Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) with grades 2,2,2.
Minimum of Lower Second Class Honours in a Bachelor degree from The University of the West Indies.
We usually require school leavers from Chile to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 5.0 in the Licenciaturo.
Direct entry to Year 1
Other qualifications:
Foundation qualification from pathway providers or universities will be considered for Year 1 entry.
Direct entry to Year 2
Chinese Gaokao with a score of:
Foundation qualification from pathway providers or universities will be considered for Year 2 entry.
Applicants who hold a China diploma with relevant work experience, or a China adult/self-taught undergraduate qualification will be also considered for direct entry.
We usually require school leavers from Colombia to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 3.0/5.0 in Titulo de Bacharel or Licenciado (4 years).
Svjedodžba o Maturi/Državna Matura
An average at grade 3 or above.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 4 in any essential subject.
Minimum of 3.0/5 in Diploma Visokog Obrazovanja or Baccalaureus/Baccalaurea.
An overall score of 17.5 in the Cypriot Apolytirion.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 18 in any essential subject.
Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Maturita)
An overall grade 2.5 (2,2,3,3) or better.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 3 in any essential subject.
Minimum of 2 in Bakalar.
Studentereksamen/HF
An average score of 7.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 7 in any essential subject.
Candidatus Philosophiae - minimum of 4 in an undergraduate degree programme.
We usually require school leavers from Ecuador to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 7/10 in the Titulo de Licenciado.
We usually require school leavers from Egypt to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum GPA of 2.5/4 or 65% in a Bachelor's degree.
Gumnaasiumi Lõputunnistus and Riigieksamitunnistus (Secondary School Leaving Certificate with the State Examination Certificate)
4 overall and 70% average in three State Examinations.
Minimum of 3 or C or 70% in Bachelor's degree or Professional or Specialist Higher Education Diploma.
A Masters degree.
Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination)
M (Grade 5) in all subjects.
Applicants must have a minimum score of M (Grade 5) in any essential subject.
Minimum of 1.5/3 or 3/5 in Kandidat or Kandidaatti.
French Baccalaureate
An overall score of 12.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 12 in any essential subject.
OIB/BFI
An overall score of 11.
11 in the Licence for most Masters level courses.
If you have any other qualifications, such as the Diplome d'Ingenieur, please contact postgraduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk for further information on the grades required for entry.
We usually require school leavers from Gambia to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Masters degree with a minimum of 60%/GPA 2.7/B-.
We usually require school leavers from Georgia to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We can also accept:
Minimum of 75% in a Bachelor's degree or Specialist Diploma.
German Abitur
Minimum 2.2.
Minimum of 2.8 in the Diploma/Staatsprufung for entry to most Masters level courses.
Minimum of 5 grades at B or above, and no grade below C in the WAEC (West Africa Examinations Council)/WASSCE (West African Senior School Certificate Examination).
Applicants must have a minimum score of B in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum 2.2 degree from a recognised university (CGPA 2.5/4, C+, 65%).
Applicants from institutions affiliated to Ghanaian universities may be asked to achieve a higher standard for entry to a Masters course.
Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio
Overall score of 17.5 for entry to most courses.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 17.5 in any essential subject.
Minimum of 6.0/10 in the Pytchion from an AEI or a minimum of 6.5/10 in the Pytchion from a TEI.
Holders of the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma or A-Levels obtained locally, will be considered for direct admission to undergraduate degree courses for both Year 1 and Year 2 entry.
Details of the required subjects and grades for each degree can be found on course webpages .
Completed Hong Kong Higher Diplomas and Hong Kong Associate Degrees with a GPA of 2.9-3.3 may also be accepted for Year 2 entry.
Contact our Admissions team for course specific entry requirements from these courses.
Where specific A-levels are required for any course, an elective in that subject will be required from HKDSE category A electives.
We do not accept integrated/combined science electives for degrees that require a full A-level subject in that area (biology for example).
Where A-level maths is required for any course, you will need to take Extended Mathematics.
We accept both M1: Calculus and Statistics and M2: Algebra and Calculus.
Minimum grade of a 2.2 equivalent (2.3 GPA, C+) in a four year Bachelor’s degree (Honours).
Erettségi Vizsga
An average at grade 3.5.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 4 in the advanced exam of any essential subject.
Minimum of 3.0 in Egyetemi Oklevel (Diploma).
6.5 or higher in the Stúdentspróf.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 6.5 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum of 6.5 in a Baccalaureatus (Bachelor's degree).
Direct Entry to 1st Year:
Year 12 Grade – cumulative score of 65% and above from the following state boards:
Students from other state boards will require Year 12 Grade – cumulative score of 75%.
Advanced Entry to 2nd Year:
Year 12 Grade – cumulative score of 75% and above from the following state boards:
Advanced entry is possible on a range of courses.
Student applications will be considered on a case by case basis.
50% from Tier 1 College/University (namely University of Mumbai, University of Calcutta, University of Delhi) or 55% from a Tier 2 College/University.
SMA/MA with GPA of 3.0 or above or ‘Baik’ rating plus IELTS.
Sajarna degree (S1) with a GPA of 2.5/4.0 or above.
Pre-University Certificate with minimum score of 17/20.
Minimum of 13/20 in a Bachelor's degree or Professional Doctorate.
We usually require school leavers from Iraq to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 70% in a Masters degree.
Diploma di Esame di Stato
An overall score of 75/100.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 8/10 in any essential subject.
Minimum score of 90/110 in one of the following qualifications:
We usually require school leavers with a kōtōgakkō Sotsugyoshomeisho to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study in Japan.
Minimum of 65% or Grade C or GPA 2.0/4.0 in a Bachelor's degree.
We usually require school leavers from Jordan to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum GPA of 2.5/4 in a 4-year Bachelor's degree.
We usually require school leavers from Kazakhstan to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum GPA of 3.5/5.0 or 2.67/4 in a Bachelor's degree or Specialist Diploma.
Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) with a minimum Grade B or above with any required subjects at B+.
Students with IB, A-Levels or the American High School Diploma can also be considered for direct entry.
Please see course pages for requirements.
Minimum second class, lower division Bachelor's degree or a minimum of 50% in a Bachelor's degree.
We usually require school leavers from Kuwait to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Students with IB, A-Levels or the American High School Diploma can be considered for direct entry.
Please see course pages for requirements .We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study in Kuwait.
Bachelor’s degree with a minimum CGPA of 2.6/4.0 from a recognised university in Kuwait.
Atestāts par vispārējo vidējo izglītību
An average grade 7 overall and 70% in two State examinations.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 70% in a state exam in any essential subject.
For more details please contact Admissions and Access at postgraduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk or +44 (0) 1786 466655.
Baccalaureate General with minimum grade of 15/20.
Please see individual course pages for requirements.
Minimum of Bachelor/Licence/Maitrise: 70% or Grade C.
We usually require school leavers from Libya to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study in Libya.
Bachelor's degree with a minimum of 65% or CGPA of 2.5/4.0 from a recognised university in Libya.
Brandos Atestatas
An average grade 7.5 overall.
Minimum of 7/10 in a Bachelor's degree.
Diplome de fin d'etudes secondaires
An overall mark of 42 (Bien).
Applicants must have a minimum score of 42 in any essential subject.
Form 6 with average grade of 75%.
Minimum GPA of 2.7 in a Bachelor's degree or Licenciatura.
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with 3 subjects, and with minimum grades of BBB, or UEC with an average grade of 75% or above.
Students with the International Baccalaureate can also be considered.
Please see course pages for details.
Bachelor’s degree with a minimum of 2.5 or above from a recognised university in Malaysia.
BBC at A-level.
Minimum GPA of 2.8 from Maldives National University.
Matriculation Certificate
Grades BC at Advanced Level and BCC at Intermediate Level.
Applicants must have a minimum score of B at advanced level in any essential subject.
Minimum of BBC at A-level.
Some courses may also have subject-specific entry criteria.
Minimum of a second class, upper division (minimum 60%) Bachelor's degree (Honours).
We usually require school leavers to complete a Foundation Year for entry to the University.
We accept applications from students who have completed one year of university study.
Minimum of 7.0/10 in the Licentiatura/Licenciado.
Diploma de Baccalaureat (Year 12) with minimum grade of 8/10.
Minimum of 8/10 in a Bachelor's degree or Diploma of Higher Education.
Matura, with an average 4.0/5.0
For more details please contact Admissions and Access at postgraduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk or on +44 (0) 1786 466655.
We usually require school leavers from Morocco to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
For entry to most Masters level courses you'll need a minimum of 12/20 (Assex Bien) in one of these qualifications:
For any course that requires a 2:1 in a Bachelor's degree (Honours) you will need to have 14/20.
We usually require school leavers from Myanmar to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum GPA of 3.0/4 or 60% in a Masters degree.
Completion of HSC Year 12, with a minimum of 75%.
Minimum of 70% in a 4-year Bachelor's degree.
Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO)
Average grade of 6.8.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 7.0 in any essential subject.
MBO Level 4 Middenkaderopleiding (MBO-4)
6.8 in a relevant subject.
Minimum of 6/10 in a Bachelor's degree or Doctoraal.
We accept the following qualifications:
Minimum average of B- in a 4-year Bachelor's Honours degree.
Students with a National Diploma (two years of post-school study) with ‘Upper Credit’ or higher (CGPA 3.0/4.0) may be eligible for direct entry to year 1 of undergraduate courses.
Minimum of a second-class, lower division Bachelor's degree (CGPA 2.50/5.00).
Norwegian Vitnemal
Minimum of 3.5.
For entry to our postgraduate courses we require a minimum of grade C minimum at Bachelor’s level.
We usually require school leavers from Oman to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study in Oman.
Bachelor's degree with a minimum CGPA of 2.3/4.0 from a recognised university in Oman.
Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC)/Intermediate, with an overall minimum of 75%.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 75% in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Pakistan specific English Language requirements
Undergraduate: An accepted English language qualification .
Postgraduate: Pakistan High School Certificate with 60% or above in English PLUS evidence of a Bachelor's degree that was both taught and examined in English within the last five years.
This is typically validated through the submission of a 'medium of instruction' (MOI) letter from a recognised university on the specified list below.
Applicants from institutions not included in this list can fulfil the English language entry requirement for their program through an accepted English language qualification .
We usually require school leavers from Panama to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 71% in Licenciado or Titulo de (subject area).
We usually require school leavers from Peru to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 12/20 in Grado Academico de Bachiller or Titulo de Licenciado or Titulo (Professional) de (subject area).
We usually require school leavers from the Philippines to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
For courses requiring 2:1 UK Bachelor's (honours) degree;
For courses requiring 2:2 UK Bachelor's (honours) degree;
To waive IELTS we require evidence of a Bachelor’s degree that was both taught and examined in English within the last five years.
This is typically validated through the submission of a 'medium of instruction' (MOI) letter from a recognised university, written on headed paper.
Matura
Average score of at least 70%, with 3 subjects at an Advanced Level.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 75% at Advanced Level in any essential subject.
Minimum of 4 (or Grade C) in the Licencjat.
Diploma/Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação
An average Grade 16.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 17 in any essential subject.
Minimum of 14/20 in the Licenciado or Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE).
We usually require school leavers from Qatar to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum GPA of 2.2/4.0 in a Bachelor's degree.
Irish Leaving Certificate with up to five subjects at Honour Levels at grades H2 or H3 depending on the course of study.
Applicants must have a minimum score of H2 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum of a lower second class Bachelor's degree for entry to most Master level courses.
Diploma de Bacalaureat
7.8 overall.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 8 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum of 7.5 in Diploma de Licenta.
We usually require school leavers from Russia to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We also accept the International Baccalaureate from students taking the full diploma with the overall points requirement depending on the course.
We may stipulate certain HL subjects for some courses.
Further details can be found on our course pages .
Minimum GPA of 3/5 in a Bachelor's Degree or Specialist Diploma.
We usually require school leavers from Saudi Arabia to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study in Saudi Arabia.
Bachelor's degree with a minimum CGPA 2.5/4.0, 3.0/5.0, or 70%/C from a recognised university in Saudi Arabia.
Matura, with an average 4.0/5.0.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 4.0 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum of 7.5/10 in Diplomirani or Bachelor's degree.
BBB at A level for most undergraduate courses.
Some courses may stipulate subject specific criteria.
Students who have studied a three year Polytechnic Diploma may be suitable for advanced entry into year 2 or 3 of a related four year undergraduate degree and subject to an assessment by academic department.
Some courses are not suitable for advanced entry.
In general, a GPA of 3.0 is required for consideration for Level 3 entry, a GPA 2.5 for Level 2 entry.
Minimum of a second class, lower division (four year) Bachelor's degree (Honours).
Vysvedčenie o Maturitnej Skúške/Maturita
Grade 2.0 overall.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 2 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum of 2.0/4 or Good in Bakalar.
Grade 3.5 or above overall.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 4 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum of 7/10 in University degree or Diplomant or Diplomirani.
Average of Grade 5 (60%) across 5 subject areas within the National Senior Certificate.
Minimum of 60% in 4-year Bachelor's degree (Honours).
Grade 4 or above in the Korean High School Diploma.
Minimum GPA of  2.7/4.3 or 3.0/4.5 in a Bachelor's degree.
Titulo de Bachiller.
Average score of 7.
Minimum of 6/10 (old system) or 1.5/4 (new system) in Licenciado or Titulo de Grado.
BBC at A-level for entry to most undergraduate courses.
Some courses may also stipulate subject specific entry criteria.
Minimum of B or 3.0/4 or Lower Second in Bachelor's Special or Professional degree.
Högskoleförberedande Examen/Slutbetyg från gymnasieskola
E in all subjects and C in 5 final year subjects.
Applicants must have a minimum score of B in final year in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Minimum grade of Godkand in the Kandidatexamen for entry to most Masters level courses.
Certificat de Maturité Federale / Maturitätszeugnis/ Attestato Di Maturità
Grade 4.5.
Applicants must have a minimum score of 5 in any essential subject that is required for the course.
Al Shahada Al Thanawiya with grade average of 85%.
Minimum of 60% in a Bachelor's degree.
Senior High School Diploma with a minimum 75% overall.
Applicants who do not meet these requirements must complete a Foundation programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 65% in a 4-year Bachelor's degree.
Grade B in either the ACSE, COHSC or EAACE.
Minimum of second class, lower division in a Bachelor's degree.
GPA of 2.5 in an undergraduate Bachelor’s degree.
Minimum of 80% overall in Grade 12 of the Lise Diplomasi, with 80% in relevant subjects.
or
Minimum of 70% overall in Grade 12 of the Lise Diplomasi, with 70% in relevant subjects, from approved schools - contact international@stir.ac.uk for further details.
We also accept applications from students who have completed one year of relevant university study in Turkey.
Bachelor's degree with a minimum of CGPA of 2.7/4.0 from a recognised university.
American High School Diploma
We usually require US applicants to hold a combination of the following qualifications for entry.
As a minimum, applicants must hold an accredited high school diploma with a minimum GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale, minimum B average), and one letter of reference.
We will be test-optional for entry to the 2024/2025 academic year until further notice.
If submitting test scores, we ask for any of the following:
School Codes
College Board/SAT/AP: 9003
ACT: 5513
Relevant Bachelor's degree with a GPA of 2.7.
Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education (UACE) with average grade of B.
Minimum of second class lower division or B in a Bachelor's degree.
We usually require school leavers from Ukraine to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
We also accept the International Baccalaureate.
Students must be taking the full diploma with the overall points requirement depending on the course you are applying to.
We may also stipulate certain HL subjects for some courses.
Minimum GPA of 2.5/4 in a Bachelor's degree.
Minimum of 6.5 in Titulo de (subject area) or Titulo de Licenciado.
We usually require school leavers from Uzbekistan to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 70% in Specialist Diploma or Bachelor's degree.
We usually require school leavers from Venezuala to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Minimum of 12/20 or 6/10 in Licenciatura or Titulo de (subject area).
We normally require students holding Vietnamese secondary school qualifications such as the High Graduation Examination (HGE) to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
6/10 in the Bang Tot Nghiep Dai Hoc or Thac si.
We usually require school leavers from Zambia to complete a Foundation Year programme for entry to an undergraduate course.
Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education at Advanced Level.
Minimum of second class, lower division Bachelor's (Honours) degree.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/english-language-requirements:
If English is not your first language, you must provide evidence of your English language skills.
Below is an overview of the English language tests we can accept for entry in September 2025 or January 2026.
You do not need to prove your knowledge of English if you’ve completed a qualification equivalent to a UK degree in one of the following countries in the past five years, or are from one of the following countries:
You also do not need to prove your knowledge of English if you are a national of Canada.
We can accept other local qualifications to evidence your English language, depending on whether you’re an undergraduate or postgraduate student:
The UK Government approves certain English language qualifications as being Secure English Language Tests (SELT).
These meet the government’s requirements for visa applications.
View the full list of approved SELT .
As a recognised UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI)-approved sponsor, the University of Stirling is also able to make its own assessment of each applicant's English language ability for degree-level study and does not need to base the assessment on a UKVI-approved Secure English Language Test (SELT).
We are therefore able to accept the following tests, for both undergraduate and postgraduate study, if studied within two years of your course start date.
Individual courses may have additional specific requirements.
English language requirements are listed on each individual course page .
Qualification
Typical English Language Requirement
IELTS Academic for UKVI, IELTS Academic, or IELTS Academic Online
6.0 with no sub-skill below 5.5
6.5 with no sub-skill below 6.0
7.0 with no sub-skills below 6.0
Pearson’s Test of English (PTE) Academic (in-centre test only)
60 overall with 59 in each sub-skill
62 overall with 60 in each sub-skill
67 overall with 60 in each sub-skill
IBT TOEFL (internet based or Special Home Edition), including MyBest Scores
78 overall
80 overall
94 overall
Trinity
ISE II pass overall with a pass in each sub-skill, ISE III pass overall and pass in all sub-skills, ISE IV pass overall and pass in all sub-skills
ISE II pass overall and merit in each sub-skill, ISE III pass overall and in all sub-skills, ISE IV pass overall and in all sub-skills
ISE III Pass overall and in all sub-skills, ISE IV Pass overall and in all sub-skills
Cambridge C1 Advanced (CAE)
169 overall with a minimum of 162 in each sub-skill
176 overall with a minimum 169 in each sub-skill
185 overall with a minimum of 169 in each sub-skill
Cambridge C2 Proficiency (CPE)
180 overall with a minimum of 162 in each sub-skill
180 overall with a minimum 169 in each sub-skill
Aptis (4 skills)
CEFR B2 overall and B2 in all sub-skills
CEFR C1 overall and B2 in all sub-skills
LanguageCert Academic SELT
LanguageCert Academic SELT with 65 overall and no less than 60 in each sub-skill
LanguageCert Academic SELT with 70 overall and no less than 65 in each sub-skill
LanguageCert Academic SELT with 75 overall and no less than 65 in each sub-skill
LanguageCert International ESOL SELT
LanguageCert International ESOL SELT B2 with a minimum of 33 in each sub-skill
LanguageCert International ESOL SELT B2 with a minimum of 38 in each sub-skill
LanguageCert International ESOL SELT C1 with a minimum of 33 in each sub-skill
Oxford Test of English (OUP) (in-centre test only)
PSI/SQA Skills for English (SELT) and PSI/SQA Skills for English (Global)
B2 Pass
B2 Pass with Merit
C1 Pass
Oxford ELLT Digital or Global
Book your Oxford ELLT Digital or Global test via this link and use the codes below for a discount
Discount codes:
UOS10 – 10% discount (£108 from £120)
6 overall with no sub-skill below 5
7 overall with no sub-skill below 6
8 overall with no sub-skill below 6
Need help improving your English?
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements, our pre-sessional English courses can help you progress onto your degree.
Delivered on campus by the University of Stirling International Study Centre, you’ll be able to access expert training and language support.
If you have specific questions about your qualifications then please email our International recruitment team at international@stir.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/visa:
Everything you need to know about visa and other related information for studying at the University of Stirling.
We’re an international research-led university and, as a licensed student visa sponsor, we welcome students from all over the world to come and study at Stirling.
The UK's Student visa , which falls under the UK's new points based immigration system, is now open for applications to international students.
You will need to demonstrate that you meet the required 70 points by:
You will also need to pay the immigration health surcharge as part of your application, which gives you access to the UK’s National Health Service.
By April 2025, all visitors who do not need a visa for short stays up to six months, except British and Irish citizens, will need an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) – a digital permission to travel to the UK.
Those nationalities that ordinarily require a visa to visit the UK will continue to do so and should not obtain an ETA.
Those who are exempt from immigration control are not required to obtain an ETA.
Nationals of Gulf Cooperation Council countries already need an ETA to travel to or transit through the UK.
All remaining nationalities will be able to apply for an ETA from later this year through a quick and simple process using the UK ETA app or via the gov.uk webpage.
ETA is extending in two phases:
The gov.uk website has the full list of nationalities (including countries and associated territories) subject to the requirement to obtain an ETA .
The Student visa is available to EU/EEA and Swiss students as well as international students.
EU, EEA and Swiss students coming to the UK who do not have permission to study in another immigration category will need to apply for a Student visa , ahead of arriving in the UK.
You can apply up to 6 months in advance of your course starting.
EU, EEA and Swiss students can continue to visit the UK for up to 6 months, without applying for a visa and may participate in short term study.
EU, EEA and Swiss students travelling in 2025 should also refer to the ETA guidance above.
Further guidance for EU/EEA and Swiss students
Apply for a visa
Find out more about applying for a Student visa
The Student visa is available to international students.
Tuberculosis tests for visa applicants
You’ll need to have a tuberculosis (TB) test if you’re coming to the UK for more than 6 months and are resident in certain countries .
If you’re planning to study in the UK for less than six months then you should apply for a standard visit visa before you travel.
If you do not need a standard visit visa you can seek leave to enter at the airport in the UK as a visitor.
Depending on when you intend to commence studies in the UK you may require an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) before travelling.
Please refer to the ETA guidance above.
You can check if you need to apply for a visa or ETA before travelling.
If you do need a visa follow the application advice on the UK Government website.
When you travel to the UK you should carry with you:
When you arrive in the UK it’s important that you explain to the Border Force Officer that you are coming to the UK for a short course of study so that they grant you leave to enter as a 'Standard Visitor'.
If you are permitted to use the eGates when you arrive through the airport, please make sure that you keep a copy of your boarding pass and/or flight ticket showing your date of arrival in the UK.
We will ask for this information as part of the enrolment process.
If your study period is less than six months and you have a specific reason for applying for a student visa instead of entering as a standard visitor (for example if your course includes a work placement and you need to have permission to work), you must contact the Admissions Team as soon as we offer you a place.
The UKVI has recently changed visa routes for entrepreneurs, including ending the Start-up visa route.
For international students and alumni interested in self-employment or starting a business in the UK, please visit UKVI’s website for detailed information or contact the University of Stirling’s Student Immigration and Visa Services Team to inquire about the Graduate visa route .
If you’re a pre-sessional applicant holding an unconditional offer for a main course of study at degree level we can issue you with a joint CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) which allows you to obtain one student visa to cover both courses.
If the only condition of your main course offer is that you must reach CFR B2 level English on completion of your pre-sessional English language course then we can also issue you with a joint CAS which allows you to obtain one student visa to cover both courses.
See the How to apply for a visa section for more information about your CAS.
To apply for a Student visa, you will need your CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) number.
When you’ve accepted your offer of a place at Stirling the admissions team will send you your CAS, number (which is different to your UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) number).
The university requires a tuition fee deposit to be paid before a Certificate of Acceptance (CAS) can be issued to self-funding students requiring a Student Visa.
This deposit will be regarded as an advance payment towards the overall cost of your tuition fees.
You must check that all personal and course information on your CAS is accurate and that any tuition, accommodation or other fees you’ve paid us have been included.
If you’re receiving any bursary or a scholarship from us this should be included in the CAS.
Please let us know of any such awards so that we can include them on your CAS.
You can apply for your visa up to three months if you're in the UK, and six months if you're outside the UK, before the start of your course and once you have your CAS.
You should make arrangements to travel to the UK only when UKVI have returned your passport and issued your Student visa.
Please refer to the guidance before submitting your application.
Mistakes with funds and your documents are the most common reason for refusal.
We can help check your documents and funds before you submit your application.
If your visa application is refused let us know immediately so we can advise you on what to do next.
If you are refused you cannot apply for another student visa using the same CAS number.
You may need an ATAS certificate to study on degree courses of a sensitive nature such as science or technology.
Students who need to apply for ATAS clearance must do so before a CAS can be assigned.
ATAS details will then be included on the CAS.
The UK Home Office is replacing physical immigration documents with a digital proof of immigration status called an eVisa.
Find out more about eVisas .
The Graduate visa is a new UK post-study work visa.
The Graduate visa gives you permission to stay in the UK for at least 2 years after you have successfully completed your course of study in the UK.
Find the best and most up-to-date visa advice on the GOV.UK website.
Find the opening times and contact details for UK visa application centres near you.
We're here to help you with your visa application.
Email us with a question or to set up an appointment.
studentimmigration@stir.ac.uk
If you arrive from Dublin with a student visa you should keep your flight confirmation emails/papers about the Dublin-UK flight and carry them with you the next time you travel.
Our Student Immigration Team specialises in student immigration to the UK and we are here to help you with advice and support for your visa application.
If you are facing significant delays and are going to miss the start date of your course please let us know as soon as possible.
To ask a question or request an appointment with an advisor please email studentimmigration@stir.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/pre-sessional-english-language-courses:
Our pre-sessional English courses are designed to improve your English language skills to the level required by your chosen degree at Stirling.
The courses are delivered in partnership with INTO at the University of Stirling International Study Centre .
For students planning to progress to their University of Stirling degree in January or September 2026, our online and on campus courses are open for applications.
The online courses have been designed to provide the same high-quality level of teaching and student support as the on-campus courses.
Designed to improve your IELTS score by 1.0 in one or more skills.
Designed to improve your IELTS score by 0.5 in one or more skills.
Students will have a number of formative tests over the course and a final assessment at the end of the programme.
An IELTS equivalent score will be achieved at the end of the course.
The course will be accessed through University of Stirling International Study Centre’s online learning platform and live virtual classroom technology.
As we approach the start date for your course, you will be sent an email with a unique link and instructions on how to join.
To ensure that you can fully participate, it is essential that you have:
We have 10-week and 6-week courses that are taught face-to-face on campus.
Students need to apply for accommodation separately to applying for the course.
Once you have accepted your offer to study at the University of Stirling, you will gain access to the University’s online Applicant Portal – where you can apply for your accommodation.
Your accommodation fees are to be paid to the University of Stirling through the online Applicant Portal when you accept your offer of accommodation.
Our online and on-campus courses are suitable for students with current overall IELTS levels between 5.0 and 6.5 and who need to improve their IELTS score by either 0.5 (8- and 6-week courses) or 1.0 (10- and 12-week courses).
The University accepts a wide variety of English language tests including IELTS (Academic and UKVI Academic), PTE (Academic and UKVI Academic), TOEFL iBT , Password English Language Testing and China College English Test (CET) for online pre-sessional English courses.
We only accept IELTS UKVI Academic and PTE UKVI Academic tests for our on-campus pre-sessional English courses.
All English language tests must be taken within 2 years of the start date of the Pre-sessional English course.
If you have already applied for a course and have received an offer from the University of Stirling, you can apply for our pre-sessional English courses via the University of Stirling International Study Centre.
Find out more about studying at Stirling or our pre-sessional English courses.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/student-support:
We understand that moving to a new country can be a big change in your life.
That’s why we offer a range of support services, so you have someone to talk to about the issues that matter to you.
Whether you need finance or careers guidance, or just a friendly face - we’re here to help.
Our friendly and welcoming Student Services Hub team is the first point of contact for a wide range of enquiries.
They’re here to assist you – with everything from finance advice and personal support, to academic issues or University life in general.
Discover more about Student Support Services .
Our Student Money Support team help with budgeting and money management.
They can also help you apply for additional funding or financial support.
You can contact them by emailing: ask@stir.ac.uk
We can help you make the most of your skills in the international job market.
Our dedicated Careers Consultants offer high-quality careers information, job application advice, and resources to help you make informed career decisions.
Find out more about our international careers guidance .
We offer a free, confidential counselling service to talk about anything that’s on your mind.
We also have a dedicated Mental Health Adviser.
Find out more about our Mental Health services .
We put the safety and wellbeing of our students first.
Police Scotland regularly describe our campus as one of the safest in Scotland.
A range of childcare facilities are available both on and off campus.
For example, we have our own kindergarten and nursery facilities .
Places are limited, so we encourage you to get in touch as early as possible.
If you’re bringing your family to the UK for the first time see our family advice page .
Our University Chaplaincy is an independent, multi-faith unit that provides spiritual and pastoral care to students on a personal and confidential basis.
A prayer room and washroom for Muslim students is located centrally on campus.
Our Students’ Union is dedicated to the welfare and social needs of all our students.
When you join as a student you automatically become a member of the National Union of Students (NUS).
This allows you to get involved with all the events organised by our Students’ Union .
We want to make sure every student at the University of Stirling gets the most out of their time here.
We have courses, workshops and support sessions to help international students with English language.
Learn more about our English language support .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/international-student-funding:
Choosing to study in the UK is a big decision and we understand that finance is a key factor.
We offer a number of scholarships and funding options to help you achieve your academic ambitions.
Each of our course pages details the cost of fees for international students.
It's important to put together a budget for living costs at university so that you can see the potential costs of living away from home.
The cost of living can vary greatly depending on your lifestyle and spending habits.
If you’re thinking about studying in the UK, have you thought about applying for a scholarship or funding?
Start thinking about scholarships as soon as possible, so you don’t miss out.
Most scholarship providers require you to hold at least a provisional offer of a place at university before applying.
For a successful visa application, you’ll need funding covering the full cost of the first year of studies.
If you have the talent, we aim to help you succeed and study at the University of Stirling.
Student loans are provided by the US Government to eligible students on eligible programmes of study.
The University of Stirling is an approved Title IV institution for the purpose of administering these loans.
If you need to apply for a loan for the upcoming academic year please email fedloans@stir.ac.uk after you have completed your FAFSA application .
Our school code is G10228.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-students/agents-and-international-representatives:
The University of Stirling has signed the UK Agent Quality Framework pledge and is committed to ensuring ethical agent practice and enhanced agent governance, ensuring students have a good applicant experience.
The University works with several agents around the world and the information provided below should help you, as an applicant, understand the role of agents, what to expect if you choose to use an agent when applying and how to let us know if you are not satisfied with the service that has been provided by your agent.
Details of agents the University has contracts with in your country can be found on our country pages .
If your country is not listed, please contact international@stir.ac.uk for guidance on agents who are operating in your country.
An agent, agency or representative are a counselling service who offer advice to students about studying overseas.
Applicants do not have to use an agent to apply to the University but may choose to do so.
Agents work in partnership with universities to support applicants to apply for the best fit course and institution.
They usually represent a portfolio of universities from the UK and other international destinations and will make recommendations to you regarding study destinations based on your career ambitions, your academic qualifications and your budget for studying overseas.
Agents can be a useful source of information, especially if you have not travelled abroad before.
The University of Stirling provides dedicated training to all our contracted agents to ensure they can provide applicants with information relevant and specific to studying at Stirling.
Agents can support you at all points of the application process from researching university and course options, applying to the University and through to visa applications and beyond.
You should refer to the British Council website for accredited and approved agents, there is also advice from the British Council on how to choose your agent.
An agent’s services to you should be free of charge.
Agents are paid by universities for the services they provide to students.
Some agents may charge fees for specific services they offer.
If an agent is charging you a fee there should be clear guidance on what the fee is and exactly what that covers.
An agent should:
If your agent does not meet these expectations, you should inform your university via our agent complaints procedure.
You should inform the university immediately via our complaints procedure if:
You can complain about your agent anonymously by emailing SRAAgents@stir.ac.uk
Please be sure to include within your email:
These will not be shared with the agent.
The University will investigate.
Resolutions will depend on the nature of the complaint and may include, but are not limited to:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school/what-can-i-study:
Our course modules, which have been tailored especially for our International Summer School, incorporate a distinctive Scottish flavour and also allow for critical thinking of international themes.
Each module includes an educational trip which will explore some of the most outstanding locations around Scotland.
Our programme allows you to gain credits towards your degree at your home institution.
Each module is accredited by the Scottish Credit Qualification Framework (SCQF).
Each class is 100 study hours with at least 16 hours of teaching.
You are expected to be able to contribute to discussions and carry out individual study outside of classes.
Assessments differ from class to class.
Classes will run Monday to Wednesday, with an excursion on Thursday or Friday.
The timetables will be emailed to you before your programme begins.
Each class must meet a minimum enrolment to run, and you are asked to submit reserve classes on your application.
You will be informed of your final classes after the deadline.
This module is designed to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the significance of adequate eating habits for promoting a healthy lifestyle.
The module will cover various aspects of nutrition, including macro and micronutrient contents in diet, energy balance, and the impact of age, physical activity, and dietary patterns on food choices.
The course aims to provide students with an understanding of the nutritional value of food and the benefits of making informed dietary choices.
Furthermore, you will learn about Scottish traditional dishes and culinary culture, which will enhance their knowledge and appreciation of food culture.
The aim of this module is to teach you about how sport is managed in Scotland and in the UK more widely, and how it is incorporated into the thread of Scottish culture.
This course is designed to provide you with an understanding that sport is a microcosm of society and is influenced by cultural traditions, social values, and psychosocial experiences.
You will gain an understanding that sport professionals are immersed in the socio-cultural milieu, with sport as the focus as well as understanding the key components of sport management.
You will look at cultural traditions, social values and economic factors which influence the provision and representation of Scottish sport.
Within this module, you’ll explore the purposes of education and how this translates into curriculum offerings within the Scottish Education system in the context of the UK.
The module will also consider the issues of learners’ identities within pre-school, primary, secondary and further education.
You will look at the policy that informs this and gain knowledge on how identities impact learning.
Let’s be honest.
You probably aren’t going to read this whole article.
But what if it was read to you out loud while driving to work, working out at the gym, or completing chores around the house?
Better yet, imagine listening to a smooth, relaxing voice like Morgan Freeman’s.
You’d be hanging on to every word, and ready for the next episode immediately after...welcome to the world of podcasting.
This module will give you an insight into developing, proposing, pitching and producing audio content to be distributed as podcasts.
You will work on creating a short factual podcast using the power of your voice, soundscapes that transport the listener and seamlessly blended music to create that moment.
We will guide you on scripting, voice technique and narrative construction so that your podcast has an impact on your audience.
This will taught by an industry professional using industry-standard equipment and software.
Post-production is the phase in the film production process where stories come together.
Images and sound are combined to build the narrative and craft what the viewer will experience.
Editing involves technical skills, but crucially it is a creative process, in which each decision will impact the style and substance of the completed film.
In this module, you will learn both the creative and technical aspects of editing.
You will be taught by an experienced industry professional, who will guide you through the art of post-production.
You will be taught in a small group, using industry-standard software and equipment, and working with material both from broadcast shows and award-winning student work.
By the end of the module, you will have a confident grasp of technical skills, the techniques of visual storytelling and how sound and pictures come together to create an impact for a viewing audience.
This module aims to provide you with an understanding of the origins, main features and impact of the Jacobite movement, and aims to place Scotland’s experience of Jacobitism within its wider British and European context.
It seeks to deepen historical and transferable skills already acquired or to assist students coming to history as a discipline for the first time.
You will look at the societal changes that occurred in Scotland in the 18th Century, the Jacobite rebellions and the Enlightenment period.
You will learn how to collect, evaluate and use sources to support a historical case and evaluate conflicting historical interpretations.
This module aims to give you an understanding of the origins, main features and impact of the Jacobite movement from 1688 to 1746.
It seeks to place Scotland’s experience of Jacobitism within its broader British and European contexts.
It also attempts to deepen the historical and transferable skillset already acquired or to assist you, if you are coming to history as a discipline for the first time, in acquiring such skills.
This module will provide you with a general introduction to central medico-literary concepts, and their evolution, surrounding the body between 1500 and 1900 in Britain.
After taking this course, you will be familiar with a wide range of literary works that centre the body, as well as key theories in Literature and Medicine Studies: accompanying primary historical and literary materials will be secondary sources which examine conceptual frameworks of both the body and the practice of medicine.
In this module, you will critically analyse literary representations of the early modern humoral body, bodily blazons, doctor-patient relations, and Gothic medicine.
Primary readings will introduce you to various historic literary genres, such as Renaissance drama, metaphysical poetry, Elizabethan sonnets, medical life writing, and the Gothic novel.
Indicative texts include works by William Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, John Donne, Edmund Spenser, Samuel Warren, Mary Seacole, and Arthur Conan Doyle.
Realise your creative potential by producing an original and stimulating piece of short fiction.
In addition to engaging with practical aspects of craft and technique, you will learn how to create believable, compelling characters and how to make them live (and die!) on the page.
The course encourages the reading of short stories to help shape your work, and how to be inspired by the environment around you.
Your technique of writing will be honed as well as expanding the scope and range of your writing
From the Classical age to the 21st century, Celts have fascinated and frightened people.
This course explores the evolving way Celtic people lived and died, what they believed and why, different ways in which Celtic peoples have been perceived by outsiders, the ways in which Celts have presented themselves to the world and considers why there has been a revival in the 21st century of Celtic faiths.
You will also explore the impact of Christianity in different eras upon the Celtic religions, folklore and mythology through the recurring themes of freedom and independence, especially in relation to the warrior and druid types, signs and symbols and the materiality of the land.
This will also enable you to pick up on broader themes and concerns such as gender, power, colonialism, race and migration.
In recent years the public and academic discourse and media engagement with religion and conflict has been predominantly focused on the relatively narrow field of violence, terrorism and fundamentalism.
However, it is by no means the whole picture or conversation that religion and conflict should encompass.
This course will focus on sources and case studies of conflict and it will specifically engage with Christian, Jewish and Islamic traditions as well as secular traditions.
It will examine issues such as nationalism, colonialism, international affairs and the role of those charged with reporting such conflicts.
Fears of extra-terrestrial invasion and nuclear apocalypse, of seemingly strange and alien civilizations, and of social, economic, and cultural collapse belie SF’s trash label.
This course introduces you to the genre’s deep philosophical dimensions, tracing its progress through the pulp magazine during the late-Nineteenth century fin de siècle and early Twentieth-century inter-war periods in the United Kingdom and the United States respectively, and its later development across the so-called Iron Curtain during the Cold War.
This course will also challenge the traditional conventions of Science Fiction – interstellar conflict with alien races – and explore the genre’s diverse progressions: into Ecocriticism, Feminism, sexuality, and the near-future ‘Post-SF’ of the urban and suburban present.
This module will introduce the subject of Criminology through the lens of the Scottish Criminal Justice System.
It will provide an overview of the Scottish Criminal Justice System before examining the major avenues by which the public obtain information about crime – as victims of crime and from the media and official statistics.
The module examines the processes that have developed our definitions of crime and the broader social and political context in which this crime occurs.
You will assess different sources and relate the construction and representations of crime to wider social and political contexts in Scotland.
This module explores contemporary issues and debates that shape world politics today.
It starts by introducing International Relations (IR) theory before turning to two broad themes that dominate the subject: conflict and peace.
By the end of the course, you will be able to describe different perspectives and concepts linked to the study of international politics and employ concepts and theories to analyse global issues and problems.
This module examines a significant aspect of Scottish history, looking at the phenomenon of witchcraft belief and prosecution in Scotland between the sixteenth and eighteenth centuries.
You will gain an understanding of the dynamic between popular and elite culture, the significance of witchcraft belief to early-modern society and the social, cultural, political, economic and religious tensions that contributed to witch hunting.
You will interpret sources and develop a capacity to evaluate conflicting historical interpretations.
As binary understandings of gender and sexuality are increasingly shown to be outdated and outmoded, developments in our understanding of gender and sexuality are making headlines and becoming a regular part of our daily discourse in both our social and working lives.
This course enables students to apply their knowledge of identity politics and put them within a Scottish context.
You will study a range of acclaimed Scottish texts that explore gender, across a diverse range of poetry, novels, cinema and drama.
We will examine the decline of traditional, industrialist, ‘hard man’ masculinities as well as broken masculinities, resistant femininities, and resurgent Scottish LGBT+ fictions.
Along with the primary texts, you will use secondary sources introducing you to iconic theorists, as well as relevant contemporary critics examining Scottish literature from a gendered perspective.
There will be optional opportunities to submit creative work as an alternative to an essay assignment, enabling you to demonstrate an understanding of the stylistic and thematic aspects of the course as a creative practitioner.
From sparkly vampires to blockbuster monsters, Gothic tropes appear to be all-pervasive in contemporary culture.
This course aims to introduce you to Gothic literary expression in the British nineteenth century, before exploring the many ways in which this dark heritage continues to affect contemporary cultural production.
focusing on three British texts from the Nineteenth century – Frankenstein (1818), The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde (1886) and Dracula (1897) – this class will discuss the adaptation, appropriation, and influence on contemporary popular culture narratives such as those found in fiction, film, tv, fashion, video gaming, and music videos.
You will gain an understanding in key Gothic concepts of transgression, excess and monstrosity as they pertain to Nineteenth-century literature and its contemporary culture.
With attention focused on the question of independence, recent debates concerning Scottish culture and identity gain a heightened political charge.
Literature has not only reflected but actively shaped such debate.
What role has writing played in political change, and to what extent has Scottish culture escaped its own stereotypes?
This course examines the literary and political currents shaping contemporary Scottish identity, introducing you to key twentieth-and twenty-first-century texts.
We encounter and explain a range of cultural debates concerning language, class, democracy and nationhood, attending to the urgency as well as the complexity of recent Scottish writing.
As well as looking at literature and the arts, this class will also look at the role of marketing, tourism and hospitality and look at the role these industries have played in creating, perpetuating or challenging stereotypes of Scotland.
The course invites comparisons between the different ways in which Scotland’s literature and its other industries present the nation to the world.
This module is designed to introduce you to key theoretical debates that have emerged in the study of Scotland’s relationship with the film and television industries.
Important questions we will consider include: Who is responsible for constructing Scotland’s identity onscreen?
How are Scotland and Scottishness depicted?
Why do certain representations dominate over others?
This module explores images of Scotland in film and television, in the context of Scottish history.
The module covers topics such as Scotland in Hollywood: Brigadoon to Braveheart (Scotland on the American screen); and Filmmaking in Scotland: the Importance of Shorts.
Scotland’s landscape has inspired poets and writers for generations.
From the hills covered in purple heather to the glorious light at sunrise, almost every vista is an invitation to the enthusiastic visual journalist.
At the same time, the protection of a diverse and sustainable environment has pushed an appreciation of the landscape to the top of the educational agenda.
This is a unique module that enables you to appreciate the environment and enjoy the natural beauty of Scotland while learning and developing your skills at landscape photography.
You will learn the practice of landscape photography, but also the theory and principles of British photography.
Equipment and software will be provided.
Each module is accredited by the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF), and is granted at 10 SCQF credits each.
This is equivalent to roughly 3 US or 5 ECTS credits.
Please check with your home institution or exchange co-ordinator to see if the credit transfer applies to you.
The module number, US/ECTS credits, course length and the Stirling credit (SCQF) are outlined below:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school/fees:
The costs depend on whether you’re planning to study one or both four-week blocks, and how many credits you intend to take.
Our package includes tuition fees, day trips, excursions, accommodation, social activities, designated airport transfers, orientation, as well as use of the University of Stirling’s sports facilities and a dedicated 24-hour team of staff.
See everything included in your fee .
1 class
£3,300
2 classes
£3,900
3 classes
4 classes
£6,100
£6,600
If you are applying through a third-party provider the costs may vary due to the additional support provided prior to, during, and following your studies.
If you withdraw from the programme after 28 April the full programme fee will be charged.
We do not offer any scholarships or awards for this programme.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school/whats-included:
We hold an informal welcome event giving you the chance to meet your fellow Summer School students.
To help you settle into life in Stirling, our full orientation programme also includes a welcome pack, campus tour, sports facilities tour, local shopping trip, library induction and more.
Our expert teaching staff provide a supportive and interactive learning environment.
Our study modules include Scottish and international topics taught by enthusiastic staff.
We teach Monday - Wednesday.
Each module includes an excursion to a Scottish destination that will bring the module’s unique curriculum to life.
You'll be able to put the knowledge you have gained into a real-world context.
Excursions can change year on year.
All excursions take place on Thursday or Friday.
Past excursions have included:
In addition to our module excursions, we organise transport for day trips to Edinburgh, Glasgow and St Andrews on Fridays.
These trips are an excellent way to enjoy some of Scotland’s major attractions and lesser-known sites with helpful hints from our summer team.
Enjoy luxury student housing on our campus.
You'll have a private en-suite bedroom in a shared flat (apartment) in one of the University’s newest accommodation buildings.
Each flat is shared only with other Summer School students and includes communal living and cooking areas for you to relax and socialise with your fellow students.
We have Wi-Fi internet access in all of our rooms, so you can easily keep in touch with your friends and family and complete your assignments.
All accommodation is self-catered and fully furnished, including bed linen, kitchenware and 24-hour University of Stirling staff support.
We balance your academic schedule with a wide range of exciting and fun activities that allow you to discover Scottish culture and the Stirling area.
Past activities have included: Mini Highland Games, ghost tours, nature walks, private film screenings and whisky tastings.
This traditional Scottish dance ensures a memorable farewell.
Complete with a live band and buffet dinner, it will be one of the highlights of your summer.
Our International Summer School team can be contacted 24/7 - available to help with any queries or welfare needs you may have throughout the summer.
Our team includes Resident Assistants who live on campus, so they can be easily contacted whenever you need their assistance.
You’ll have full use of our world-class, on campus sports facilities for the duration of your programme.
As Scotland’s University of Sporting Excellence, you’ll have access to the same facilities that our Commonwealth and Olympic athletes use, including a swimming pool and state of the art fitness suite.
We offer a transfer service for Edinburgh and Glasgow International airports, available at selected times on the first and last day of each block.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school/how-to-apply-for-international-summer-school:
Applications for 2025 are now closed.
Applications for 2026 will open in January 2026.
Cancellation dates
Before Monday 28 April 2025
No withdrawal fee
After Monday 28 April 2025
Full programme fee as listed on our fees page
You must be over the age of 18 and either
Unfortunately, we can not admit research students or independent learners.
You’ll need to provide:
Students applying independently must also include a letter of recommendation.
The letter of recommendation should be from a tutor, academic advisor or other notable person who can vouch for your suitability to study on the programme.
If you’re applying from a university in the USA or Canada you’ll need a GPA of 2.7 or above.
If you’re applying from elsewhere, you should have good pass grades equivalent to ECTS level ‘B’ or top 35% for courses taken.
When you apply, you should be sufficiently fluent in English to get the maximum benefit from our course modules.
If English isn’t your first language, you’ll need to provide evidence of having passed one of the approved tests at CEFR Level B2 or above on our English Language Qualifications List or proof your degree is taught in English.
If you are from one of our partner universities, you can provide an English language reference letter confirming your level of English.
Otherwise, if you’re from a native English-speaking country outside of the EU, you do not need to provide evidence of your English language skills.
We have a number of third party providers who are happy to assist with your application and offer extra support on the programme.
If you live in the USA:
If you live in Australia:
Get in touch and we'll be happy to assist

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school/why-stirling-summer-school:
The University of Stirling is an international university based in Scotland the UK with a world-class reputation.
We’re passionate about the fantastic International Summer School experience we can offer you.
Scotland is renowned for being friendly and welcoming, and you’ll soon feel at home at Stirling.
91% of international students say there is a friendly attitude towards them (International Student Barometer 2024) and the summer school staff are committed to this experience.
Our beautiful 330-acre campus offers you the perfect location.
Situated beneath the Ochil Hills, the University of Stirling campus is considered to be one of the most beautiful in the world and is ranked the number one campus environment in the UK and top 10 in the world (International Student Barometer 2024).
With our own lake (loch), 18th-century castle, and views of the Wallace Monument, our campus offers you a tranquil, welcoming environment and is one of the safest campuses in the UK.
Scotland is, quite simply, beautiful.
Mountains, lochs, beaches, islands and castles offer wonderful opportunities for cycling, climbing, walking, skiing, swimming or simply having the space to sit and think.
Our towns and cities all have their own character, and Stirling’s central location means you’re never far from a new adventure.
The city of Stirling offers students a unique blend of Scottish history and contemporary culture.
Almost 100,000 people from all over the world call Stirling home – and the city’s friendly atmosphere and rich variety of shops, bars, restaurants and things to do make it a fantastic place to spend your summer.
Sports membership is included in the cost of our International Summer School programme.
You’ll be able to enjoy our world-class sports facilities, including a gym, Olympic swimming pool, tennis courts and more.
We’re Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence and our campus is a training ground for some of the UK’s most promising Olympic athletes.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/study-abroad-exchange/want-to-study-abroad:
Are you ready for an adventure?
We offer a wide range of once-in-a-lifetime Study Abroad Programme opportunities, giving you the opportunity to see the world and experience new cultures.
From a semester in Tokyo, to a year in Spain or California, we have over 70 university partnerships across four continents.
We give you the chance to spend a semester or a year studying at one of our partner universities as a fully integrated part of your degree.
You’ll continue to study while overseas and keep earning credits towards your degree.
Students who go abroad are
7% higher average wage earners, six months after graduation
Universities UK International, Gone International Report 2018
19% more likely to gain a 1st in their degree
Where can I go?
Discover where you can travel to on your semester or year abroad.
Current student?
Access more information on the internal website .
Weekly Study Abroad Advising in the Student Services Hub | Wednesdays 11:00am – 2:00pm
Email studyabroadOUT@stir.ac.uk with any questions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/international/study-abroad-exchange/coming-to-stirling:
Take on a new adventure and study abroad with us.
We welcome hundreds of study abroad and exchange students each semester.
Our campus is located on our stunning 330-acre Scottish estate, offering you a relaxing place to study.
We accept students from all years of undergraduate study.
The skills and life-lessons you’ll learn from your study abroad experience will help you stand out in your personal and professional life.
Taking part will show future employers your ambition, maturity and self-reliance.
You can choose to study with us for either a semester or a full year as part of your undergraduate degree.
You can come for Semester 1 and/or Semester 2.
View the University semester dates .
We have over 25 subject areas on offer.
You can select three modules (courses) per semester.
Get more information on tuition fees and funding opportunities, including the BUTEX scholarship.
You can apply today!
You just need to be currently enrolled at a higher education institution as an undergraduate student.
We make our best efforts to reserve university accommodation for all incoming Study Abroad and exchange students who apply by the published deadline.
You'll have the choice of two to three on-campus and one off-campus residence each year.
You'll be able to apply for accommodation once you've been offered a place at the University.
Our accommodation is self-catered, with a shared kitchen, on-site laundry facilities, and 24-hour University of Stirling staff support.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-themes/cultures-communities-society:
Nothing exists in isolation from the rest of the world, and studying and researching subjects in their wider context is at the heart of our thematic area of Cultures, Communities and Society.
By exploring the past and recognising how we can learn from it, promoting innovations in teaching and understanding distinctive cultures and political authority, we strive to bring communities together in mutually-beneficial ways.
Find out how our research has been informing Scotland’s approach to the legal incorporation of international human rights obligations into domestic law.
Society's identity, wellbeing and progress are constantly challenged.
We empower communities by enhancing their understanding of their cultural past to positively influence their future.
Digital technologies are changing the way we live.
Our critical thinking questions the impact of these changes and explores potential solutions to address the challenges this creates.
Providing the world's population with a sustainable way of living.
Helping people to maintain, attain or regain good health.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-themes/global-security-resilience:
Our expertise in Global Security and Resilience spans a wide range of academic subjects and perspectives, but has the common goal of providing the world’s growing population with a sustainable and secure way of living.
We explore how the world’s forests, and its flora and fauna are evolving in response to climate change, and investigate how humans interact with the world – whether that is face-to-face in the field of international diplomacy, or digitally, within the context of cyber security.
Extreme events can range from bereavement to flooding; disease to social unrest.
We research how societies and ecosystems can prepare for the unexpected.
We explore the impact of climate change on human security, and identify ways to manage the conflicts it causes.
Striving to bring communities together in mutually-beneficial ways.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-themes/living-well:
Our Living Well experts are drawn from across many subject areas, including sports science, psychology, marketing, economics and health to look at improving global well-being – allowing people to maintain, attain or regain good health.
Major research projects include exploring the impact of alcohol licensing and tobacco plain packaging, establishing how to help people live well with dementia and ensuring the best nursing and cancer care is delivered to patients.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/healthy-ageing-in-scotland:
Scotland’s older population is increasing faster than in other parts of the UK.
The country’s overall population is projected to increase from 5.3 million to 5.7 million by 2039 – with an 85% increase in those aged 75+.
The country also has poor health and low life expectancy when compared with other economically similar nations, raising unique questions about the future of social care and health policies.
The Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS) study has created an invaluable benchmark that enables comparison of over 50s in Scotland with those in other nations, and will help to inform vital conversations about the country’s future.
The £500,000 study – funded by the National Institute of Aging and Nuffield Foundation – is the first of its kind in Scotland.
In its pilot phase, researchers at the University analysed the data of 1,000 Scots over the age of 50 – supplying a wealth of information to influence and support the debate around the issues affecting our ageing population.
The initial findings of the study have revealed important insights into the employment, social security, health and life expectancy of the older generation.
The HAGIS study represents Scotland within the Gateway to Global Aging – a platform for population survey data covering more than two-thirds of the world’s population aged 50+.
HAGIS provides a benchmark and, for the first time, enables comparison of the over 50s in Scotland with those in other countries across the world.
Read more about the specific findings of the HAGIS study below.
Scotland's population is projected to increase from 5.3 million to 5.7 million by 2039
has given Scotland a voice in the Gateway to Global Aging Data
The HAGIS study
supplies a wealth of insight into the issues affecting our ageing population
Healthy ageing
research will help to inform vital conversations about the future
68% of men and 55% of women aged 50-64 in the HAGIS study are working, around 20% are retired, with the remainder unemployed, unable to work through illness or disability, caring or looking after the family home.
Almost 40% of older people in Scotland expect to retire before the State Pension Age, 30% plan to retire when they become eligible for the state pension, and 30% after they have passed the eligibility criterion.
A relatively large proportion of respondents (42%) do not have any pension arrangements other than state provision, while 49 percent are enrolled in an occupation pension scheme.
Understanding people’s expectations for retirement is important, particularly for ensuring financial security and planning for care in the longer term.
Almost 40% of older people in Scotland expect to retire before the State Pension Age
HAGIS data suggests that single men are significantly less likely to participate in bowel cancer screening tests (57.6%), compared to those who live with a partner (79.5%).
Increasing the participation rate of single males to the Scottish average would save around 3.2 lives per year, based on Scottish Government estimates of the effectiveness of the screening programme.
The uptake of screening is also lower in deprived areas, so raising awareness in these households would also be beneficial.
Social isolation and loneliness are distinct but inter-related concepts.
Yet, both social isolation and loneliness are associated with poorer physical and mental health.
Just over 9% of the HAGIS sample said that they often felt lonely.
Most people see either/or children, friends, or family more than once a month, however, some people have very little contact with anyone.
Perhaps surprisingly, some people with high levels of social contact can often feel lonely, while some who never or rarely feel lonely can have few social connections.
HAGIS data will help us to understand when, and for whom, feelings of social isolation and/or loneliness are associated with poorer health outcomes.
Our research will help us to understand when, and for whom, feelings of social isolation and/or loneliness are associated with poorer health outcomes.
Disability increases as we age, and the prevalence of disability is highest in deprived areas.
The percentage of people with a “high” measure of disability increases from 11.9% of the population to 48.8% between the ages of 50-59 and 80+.
A significant proportion of those with “high” levels of disability are not claiming disability-related benefits and this warrants further investigation.
Nearly half of people who think their physical abilities are substantially limiting are not receiving either Attendance Allowance or Disability Living Allowance.
These benefits will soon be transferred to the Scottish Government from the UK Department of Work and Pensions and together will account for more than £2bn of Scottish Government spending.
Life expectancy is typically underestimated, particularly by younger people.
Women underestimate their life expectancy more than men – even though they tend to live longer than men.
People in more affluent areas are more likely to underestimate their life expectancy.
Someone living in the most affluent area of Scotland typically underestimates their life expectancy by 2.4 years on average, compared to someone in the most deprived areas who on average underestimates by 1.4 years.
We are currently studying why there are differences between the age people think they will live to and their actual life expectancy.
We are exploring variation in age and sex, as well as cultural differences across countries.
We're studying why there are differences between the age people think they will live to and their actual life expectancy.
Our researchers aim to expand the HAGIS study’s reach to 7,000 people and re-interviewing them every two years.
This expansion will add additional depth to the findings of the original study and continue to provide invaluable data on Scotland’s ageing population that allows for global comparison and policy-shaping insights.
Pilot study protocol to inform a future longitudinal study of ageing using linked administrative data: Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS) Douglas E, Rutherford AC & Bell D (2018) Pilot study protocol to inform a future longitudinal study of ageing using linked administrative data: Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS).
BMJ Open , 8 (1), Art.
No.: e018802.
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018802
Dementia, home care and institutionalisation from hospitals in older people Bu F & Rutherford A (2018) Dementia, home care and institutionalisation from hospitals in older people.
European Journal of Ageing .
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10433-018-0493-0

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/terror-and-wonder:
Find out how our research helped to shape the world's largest ever public exhibition of the Gothic and set new attendance records at the British Library.
The British Library drew from research by Stirling academics to help shape their major exhibition of Gothic literature and art, 'Terror and Wonder: The Gothic Imagination'.
The exhibition, the largest of its kind ever held in a public institution, drew directly from a series of Stirling research projects and papers exploring the cultural impact of the Gothic from an international perspective.
Our academics also worked directly with the British library to help curate the exhibition – from selecting works for inclusion, to writing exhibit placards, conducting promotional interviews, advising on layout and educating staff.
The exhibition charted the evolution and influence of the Gothic over a period of 250 years, and included rare manuscripts of Dracula and Jane Eyre alongside everything from a vampire slaying kit to an Alexander McQueen dress and Stanley Kubrick's annotated typescript for The Shining.
The overarching goals of the collaboration between the University and the British Library were to offer an exciting new interpretation of Gothic history through a major exhibition, enhance revenue streams for the British Library’s exhibition space and explore how academic research can boost cultural engagement by creating a better visitor experience.
'Terror and Wonder: The Gothic Imagination' was a huge success for the British Library, exceeding target ticket sales by more than 18% and attracting almost 60,000 visitors.
The show recorded the highest ever attendance for a British Library exhibit running over 16 weeks, resulting in the addition of 24 extra opening slots to satisfy visitor demand.
Media outlets praised the exhibition, with Time Out listing it as one of its top 10 things to do for Halloween, and The Guardian’s four-star review stating the show "teems with arresting exhibits" and offers an "epic journey through a literary genre and its endless cultural transformations".
Terror and Wonder exceeded target ticket sales by more than 18% and recorded the highest ever attendance for a British Library exhibit running over 16 weeks.
helped shape the largest ever public exhibition of the Gothic
59,198
visitors attended the Terror and Wonder exhibition
8,000+
young people took part in workshops underpinned by our research
Beyond the show floor, research into the Gothic at Stirling also reached new audiences through a series of events related to 'Terror and Wonder'.
During the exhibition's 16-week run, more than 8,000 young people participated in workshops led by British Library staff, who had received training from our researchers about the history, evolution and ongoing cultural impact of the Gothic.
Researchers from the University also presented their insights directly to audiences at spin-off public lectures in Strawberry Hill House and the Old Operation Theatre in London – both of which hosted Gothic exhibitions coordinated and partly curated by Stirling researchers.
The level of positive engagement across all the events highlighted how shaping exhibitions around quality, innovative research can help to present familiar subjects in a fresh way, enhance audience participation and create new opportunities to share knowledge.
"This perversely enlightening exhibition of gothic ephemera, from Sadean dresses to possessed ventriloquists, is not so much about art as it is an inquiry into the liberation of the mind."
A Halloween Gothic tour of Stirling, a public symposium including creative writers and collaboration with University of São Paulo academics allowed us to continue to expand our knowledge and share our findings.
A series of events celebrating 30 years of Gothic research at Stirling took place in 2018 and 2019 and offered opportunities to make our research relevant to a wider audience and connect our expertise in Gothic with the current cultural landscape.
Terror and Wonder: The Gothic Imagination Townshend D (ed.) (2014) Terror and Wonder: The Gothic Imagination .
London: British Library Publishing.
http://shop.bl.uk/mall/productpage.cfm/BritishLibrary/_ISBN_9780712357913/-/Terror-and-Wonder%3A-The-Gothic-Imagination-(paperback)
The Gothic World Byron G & Townshend D (eds.) (2013) The Gothic World .
Routledge Worlds.
London: Routledge.
http://www.routledge.com/books/details/9780415637442/
Its, Blobs and Things: Gothic Beings Out of Time Edwards JD (2018) Its, Blobs and Things: Gothic Beings Out of Time.
In: Edwards JD, Hoglund J (ed.).
B-Movie Gothic: International Perspectives .
International Perspectives, Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, pp.
17-31.
https://edinburghuniversitypress.com/book-b-movie-gothic-hb.html
B-Movie Gothic: International Perspectives Edwards JD & Hoglund J (eds.) (2018) B-Movie Gothic: International Perspectives .
Traditions in World Cinema.
Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Zombie Terrorism in an Age of Global Gothic Edwards JD (2015) Zombie Terrorism in an Age of Global Gothic, Gothic Studies , 17 (2), pp.
12-25.
https://doi.org/10.7227/GS.17.2.2

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/tackling-tobacco-and-improving-public-health:
Tobacco causes immense damage to our society.
Smoking is the largest cause of cancer in the UK, and more than one in two smokers who persist with the habit die as a result.
In the UK alone, this amounts to more than six million deaths since the early 1950s, yet smoking remains prevalent.
In the UK, approximately one in six adults continue to smoke, with this proportion rising significantly in our poorest communities.
Our work to make tobacco products less attractive has been recognised with the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education, and we continue to conduct groundbreaking research designed to tackle one of society’s biggest health problems.
Our Institute for Social Marketing and Health experts, often supported by Cancer Research UK, help to investigate the effects of the tobacco industry’s marketing activities and determine the most effective ways to counter them.
Research conducted at the University has informed tobacco policy and legislation in the UK and worldwide.
The Institute found point-of-sale marketing of tobacco, including tobacco display racks, directly influences consumer behaviour.
The research contributed directly to the development of the 2009 Health Act (England and Wales) and the Tobacco and Primary Medical Services (Scotland) Act 2010 – both of which restrict the display of tobacco at the point of sale in order to make tobacco products less attractive.
The display ban on tobacco was implemented successfully in large shops and supermarkets between 2012 and 2013, with smaller shops required to comply by 2015.
Research conducted at the University has informed tobacco policy and legislation in the UK and worldwide.
UoS experts
explore the impact of commercial and social marketing on society
contributed directly to health acts which restrict the display of tobacco at the point of sale
Point-of-sale
tobacco display ban has had a significant reduction in youth smoking susceptibility
Research published in 2019 shows that the ban on point-of-sale tobacco displays has had a significant reduction in youth smoking susceptibility.
The study, published in the British Medical Journal’s Tobacco Control, examined the impact of the policy on 11-16-year-olds who had never smoked.
Smoking susceptibility among never smokers decreased from 28 percent pre-ban to 23 percent mid-ban, and 18 percent post-ban.
Noticing cigarettes at point-of-sale decreased from 81 percent pre-ban, to 28 percent post-ban; and cigarette brand awareness also reduced, with the average number of cigarette brands recalled declining from 0.97 pre-ban to 0.69 post-ban.
The study also found that 90% of those surveyed supported the display ban.
"Contrary to Big Tobacco’s belief that banning displays would make no difference, this study shows that by putting cigarettes out of sight and out of mind far fewer youngsters are taking up the deathly habit."
The work of the Institute has played a key role in the UK Government’s decision to introduce standardised (or plain) packaging of cigarettes in 2017.
A recent study, funded by Cancer Research UK and led by the Institute’s Dr Crawford Moodie, shows the impact of standardised packaging.
It found that smokers are more likely to notice and attend to the health warnings on standardised packs than on fully-branded packs, and more likely to think about the risks of smoking and about quitting because of standardised packs – an important insight that feeds into a global effort to measure the effectiveness of changes to the way tobacco is marketed.
Our experts are also playing a key role in a new £5.9 million research consortium exploring how the marketing of tobacco, alcohol and unhealthy food and drink has a detrimental impact on health.
Stirling's Dr Niamh Fitzgerald will be Deputy Director of the SPECTRUM research programme, which will focus on the impact of commercial factors – such as strategies used to promote products – on health and health inequalities.
The study seeks to bring researchers together to share evidence and options for reducing harm from tobacco, alcohol and unhealthy products and, ultimately, ensure that the research is well positioned to effectively impact policy and practice in the UK.
Our experts found that smokers are more likely to notice and attend to the health warnings on standardised packs than on fully-branded packs.
The risk of 11 to 16-year-olds taking up smoking has reduced following the introduction of a ban on the open display of tobacco products in the UK, according to a new University of Stirling study.
Health warnings on plain-packaged cigarettes have more of an impact on smokers than those on branded packs, according to new research from the University of Stirling.
Experts at the University of Stirling are part of a new £5.9 million research consortium looking at how the marketing of alcohol, tobacco and unhealthy food and drink has a detrimental impact on health.
Impact of a ban on the open display of tobacco products in retail outlets on never smoking youth in the UK: findings from a repeat cross-sectional survey before, during and after implementation Ford A, MacKintosh AM, Moodie C, Kuipers M, Hastings G & Bauld L (2019) Impact of a ban on the open display of tobacco products in retail outlets on never smoking youth in the UK: findings from a repeat cross-sectional survey before, during and after implementation.
Tobacco Control .
https://doi.org/10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2018-054831
Smokers’ response to standardised packaging Moodie C, Brose LS, Hyun L, Power E, Bauld L (in press).
How did smokers respond to standardised cigarette packaging with new, larger health warnings in the United Kingdom during the transition period?
Addiction Research & Theory.
Young people’s responses to standardised packaging one year after full implementation in the UK: a qualitative study (Meeting Abstract) Ford A, MacKintosh AM & Moodie C (2019) Young people’s responses to standardised packaging one year after full implementation in the UK: a qualitative study (Meeting Abstract).
In: SRNT: 25th Anniversary - Abstracts .
Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco (SRNT) 25th Annual Meeting, San Francisco, CA, USA, 20.02.2019-23.02.2019.
SRNT, p.
122.
https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.srnt.org/resource/resmgr/SRNT19_Abstracts.pdf
Pricing of tobacco products during, and after, the introduction of standardized packaging: An observational study of retail price data from independent and convenience (small) retailers in the United Kingdom Critchlow N, Stead M, Moodie C, Angus K, Eadie D & MacKintosh AM (2018) Pricing of tobacco products during, and after, the introduction of standardized packaging: An observational study of retail price data from independent and convenience (small) retailers in the United Kingdom [Tobacco pricing and standardised packaging].
Addiction .
https://doi.org/10.1111/add.14488
The Response of Retailers in Scotland to the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations and Tobacco Products Directive Purves RI, Moodie C, Eadie D & Stead M (2019) The Response of Retailers in Scotland to the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations and Tobacco Products Directive.
Nicotine & Tobacco Research , 21 (3), pp.
309-313.
https://doi.org/10.1093/ntr/nty181
How tobacco companies in the United Kingdom prepared for, and responded to, standardised packaging of cigarettes and rolling tobacco Moodie C, Angus K, Mitchell D & Critchlow N (2018) How tobacco companies in the United Kingdom prepared for, and responded to, standardised packaging of cigarettes and rolling tobacco.
Tobacco Control , 27 (e1), pp.
e85-e92.
https://doi.org/10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2017-054011

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/aquaculture-research:
Aquaculture is one of the world’s fastest-growing food production sectors, currently producing more than 50% of all fish for human consumption globally, compared to just 9% in 1980.
This growth is not only significant in economic terms – it also positions aquaculture as a vital component of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, in particular contributing to SDG 1 (No Poverty) and SDG 2 (Zero hunger).
Today, over a billion people rely on seafood as their main source of animal protein, and innovative solutions are required to strengthen global food supply in a world with a widening gap between rich and poor.
The University of Stirling’s Institute of Aquaculture's priorities reflect a global interest in understanding how aquaculture can support the rapidly increasing human population without depleting wild-fish stocks.
In November 2019, the Institute’s pioneering work was recognised with the UK’s most prestigious academic honour – the Queen’s Anniversary Prize.
Seafood is one of the most valuable food commodities traded globally.
Salmon and shrimp have emerged as major farmed seafood commodities but most aquaculture products are produced and consumed domestically, usually in low and medium income countries.
Our research addresses the challenges facing the sector, through strategies to enhance fish health and production whilst balancing sustainable development, animal welfare, biodiversity and environmental impact.
The Scottish and UK governments have ambitions for growth in this key food production sector, both domestically and internationally, and our research is shaping policy and delivering economic benefits with global.
Read on for just a few examples of our key research.
Our research addresses the challenge of how to enhance fish health and production whilst balancing sustainable development, animal welfare, biodiversity and environmental impact.
Our experts
are helping to tackle the damaging impact of sea lice with 'cleaner fish' research
Most farmed fish
in the UK are now vaccinated and the Institute of Aquaculture continues to develop integrated approaches to health
We're helping
poor communities around the world to farm fish sustainably
Infectious disease provides a major barrier to sustainable aquaculture, and with 598 species used in aquaculture worldwide it is a challenge to keep track of the pathogens.
At the Institute of Aquaculture, we maintain a large multi-disciplinary group dedicated to the prevention and control of aquatic infectious diseases addressing the entire aquaculture production spectrum.
The overall aim of our research is to improve understanding of major pathogens in aquaculture systems and we do this by integrating expertise across bacteriology, immunology, parasitology, pathology, vaccinology and virology.
Our research investigates environmental factors that promote disease, reservoirs of infection, taxonomic diversity and evolution, modes of disease transmission, routes of infection and infection thresholds.
Understanding how pathogens cause disease and interfere with the immune responses of their hosts helps to develop point of care diagnostics, best husbandry measures and preventive vaccines or treatments.
The Institute in the late 1980s contributed to the development of the first vaccines for the Atlantic salmon industry, setting the foundations for current cutting edge approaches toward preventative therapy in fish health.
The impact of this work has led to significant improvements in fish health and welfare and a much reduced reliance upon antibiotics.
Our activities cover both fundamental and applied research and we work closely with industrial partners spanning a broad range of aquaculture-related activities.
Our research has contributed to national and international aquatic animal health and welfare strategies, and much of this is conducted in collaboration with competent authorities in the UK (e.g.
MSS and Cefas), Europe (e.g.
European Food Safety Authority) and further afield (e.g.
OIE).
The first commercial fish vaccines in the UK were developed by scientists at our Institute of Aquaculture.
The Institute began working with Bangladesh in 1979 to build capacity and develop infrastructure in aquaculture.
More recently, the work of the Institute has evolved into larger programmatic initiatives – one of which has focussed on tilapia, a breed of fish that is now a core part of aquaculture in many parts of the Tropics.
The fish can be raised in simple backyard systems through to highly commercial, cage and pond systems supplying urban and international markets.
Tilapia is important to people in less developed countries because it is easy and inexpensive to culture and can provide additional sources of income and nutrition for local populations.
Researchers at the Institute developed a novel, decentralised approach to improve the availability of high-quality tilapia seed and more nutritious fish in Bangladesh.
The outcome has been to make it easier for farmers to stock healthy tilapia in the waters of their rice fields.
Their ability to farm both fish and rice at the same time has smoothed out the previous seasonality of their income, with farmers able to sell fish throughout the year.
It has also improved nutrition among poorer households.
As a result of this work, an international nongovernmental organisation (CARE) made the inclusion of tilapia a key part of a project promoting innovations in rice field management.
Based in 150 communities in an area of North West Bangladesh, decentralised seed production was established as an effective pro-poor innovation in rural areas.
A subsequent extension programme resulted in the inclusion of a further 20,000 households bringing significant socioeconomic benefits to poorer communities.
We are also working in sub-Saharan Africa to ensure tilapia-based culture ensures conservation of local strains and species
Our Researchers developed a novel approach to improve the availability of high-quality tilapia seed and more nutritious fish in Bangladesh.
Sea lice, marine ectoparasites of fish, cause economic losses of over £700 million a year for the global Atlantic salmon aquaculture industry.
For decades, medicines and chemicals were used to control and treat sea lice infestations.
With input from industry, the Institute undertook research into the use of ‘cleaner fish’ as a pest control alternative.
‘Cleaner fish’ provide a service to other fish by removing and consuming ectoparasites.
Found in the wild, they had never been successfully farmed before.
In 2011, the Institute started work with salmon production companies and feed manufacturers to initiate a programme to farm ballan wrasse.
The success of this research led to the establishment of two commercial wrasse farms in 2014 and an overall reduction in the use of chemicals to combat sea lice.
A second cleaner fish species, the lumpfish, has since started to be cultured.
The Institute leads UK research on the culture of cleaner fish and covers a wide range of topics related to the domestication of a new species.
In 2018, the Institute and its industry partners welcomed what was believed to be a world-first after successfully completing the lifecycle of farming wrasse in a controlled environment.
The breakthrough means there are now proven procedures for breeding, weaning and rearing wrasse, which will both help ensure farmers have a more secure, controllable supply and reduce reliance on wild stocks.
Researchers at the Institute are seeking solutions for some of the biggest challenges of our time: the impact of a growing population worldwide; and how to develop sustainable, healthy and secure ways of living.
Investment of £17 million through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal will create a new aquaculture innovation hub to support the University’s pioneering aquaculture research, translating global growth into high quality local jobs.
Read more about the National Aquaculture Technology and Innovation Hub .
The University of Stirling’s world-leading Institute of Aquaculture is to receive the UK’s most prestigious academic honour – the Queen’s Anniversary Prize.
A team of UK researchers has received funding to optimise the formulation and delivery of a key vaccination given to protect ballan wrasse from disease.
Sustainable production and use of cleaner fish for the biological control of sea lice: recent advances and current challenges Brooker AJ, Papadopoulou A, Gutierrez C, Rey S, Davie A & Migaud H (2018) Sustainable production and use of cleaner fish for the biological control of sea lice: recent advances and current challenges.
Veterinary Record , 183, Art.
No.: 383.
https://doi.org/10.1136/vr.104966
The impacts of integrated homestead pond-dike systems in relation to production, consumption and seasonality in central north Bangladesh Karim M & Little DC (2018) The impacts of integrated homestead pond-dike systems in relation to production, consumption and seasonality in central north Bangladesh.
Aquaculture Research , 49 (1), pp.
313-334.
https://doi.org/10.1111/are.13462
Expression pattern of nanos, piwil, dnd, vasa and pum genes during ontogenic development in Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus Jin YH, Davie A & Migaud H (2019) Expression pattern of nanos, piwil, dnd, vasa and pum genes during ontogenic development in Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus.
Gene , 688, pp.
62-70.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2018.11.078
Molecular epidemiological study on Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus isolates from aquafarms in Scotland over three decades Ulrich K, Wehner S, Bekaert M, Paola ND, Dilcher M, Muir KF, Taggart JB, Matejusova I & Weidmann M (2018) Molecular epidemiological study on Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus isolates from aquafarms in Scotland over three decades.
Journal of General Virology , 99 (12), pp.
1567-1581.
https://doi.org/10.1099/jgv.0.001155
Progress, Challenges And Opportunities In Fish Vaccine Development Adams A (2019) Progress, Challenges And Opportunities In Fish Vaccine Development.
Fish & Shellfish Immunology , 90, pp.
210-214.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fsi.2019.04.066

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/the-daily-mile:
Now 12,000+ schools have adopted The Daily Mile approach.
It all started in Stirling and has now spread to more than 80 countries.
The Daily Mile was founded in February 2012 by Elaine Wyllie, the then headteacher of St Ninians Primary School in Stirling, who wanted to improve the fitness of her pupils.
The initiative involves children taking a 15-minute break from class – in addition to normal intervals and physical education lessons – to either run, jog or walk around their school grounds.
The backdrop to the Daily Mile is a global childhood physical activity crisis.
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that children get at least 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise each day but fewer than 40% of children achieve these levels.
The number of overweight and obese children has increased dramatically in recent years , and lack of exercise and too much sitting around will be part of the reason.
Overweight kids are at higher risk of diabetes , strokes and heart disease in later years, so this directly affects both their quality of life and potentially their lifespan.
Equally alarmingly, children’s physical fitness has significantly declined since at least the 1980s .
They can’t run as far without stopping as their parents could.
The Daily Mile seemed to offer a free, simple solution to help fight this crisis, so it was easy to see why it spread across Scotland, the UK and the world, with 12,000+ schools in more than 80 countries adopting the approach.
But there was a problem.
There was not enough evidence to suggest the Daily Mile was actually working.
"By taking small steps and jogging, walking or running for 15 minutes, people can make huge changes to their health and wellbeing.
We want Scotland to be the first ‘Daily Mile Nation'".
While anecdotal evidence suggested that The Daily Mile was having a positive impact on the physical health and cognitive – or learning – ability of pupils, no quantitative research was available to support the reported benefits of the scheme.
The absence of such studies meant that policymakers and schools were implementing the scheme without a comprehensive understanding of its benefits.
showed a simple local solution could improve the fitness of school pupils
12,000+
schools in more than 80 countries have adopted the approach
The Daily Mile
improves a child’s fitness, attention and memory
"Our research suggests that The Daily Mile is a worthwhile intervention to introduce in schools and that it should be considered for inclusion in government policy, both at home and abroad."
A collaboration between the universities of Stirling and Edinburgh launched three projects to:
The physiological study – published in BMC Medicine – worked with 391 schoolchildren in the Stirling area to measure the impact of The Daily Mile.
It found that the initiative:
The second project was a collaboration with the BBC’s Terrific Scientific initiative and involved 7,500 primary school pupils from across the UK.
The study compared pupils’ scores on online cognitive tests following different types of exercise: near exhaustive exercise (the bleep test); self-paced exercise (like the Daily Mile); and, a control activity (at rest).
The study found that pupils’ best responses came after physical activity that was set at their own pace.
A 15-minute break from class can improve a child’s mood, attention and memory - enhancing their ability to learn.
The implementation research , published in PLOS ONE, involved interviews with staff at four schools in the Stirling area and The Daily Mile’s founder, Elaine Wyllie.
It attributed the scheme’s success to its simplicity, flexibility and adaptability.
Introduce the Daily Mile to your school
Simple to implement.
Any normal weather.
Why and how you should introduce the Daily Mile to your school (This document is being reissued and is available upon request - email webteam@stir.ac.uk)
Implications for policymakers
The Scottish Government wants Scotland to become the first “Daily Mile nation,” urging schools and nurseries to take up the challenge.
Our research suggests The Daily Mile is an effective, flexible tool in improving child health and wellbeing.
Following the scheme’s success, the Scottish Government has outlined its desire for Scotland to become the first Daily Mile nation, with around half of the country’s primary schools now implementing the approach.
There has been interest from the UK Government and the scheme has attracted the attention of other countries, with the Netherlands, Belgium and parts of the USA among those to have already adopted the approach.
The next step in our research is to understand whether it can work in different educational settings, such as high schools, and whether it works equally well for pupils from different backgrounds.
Collaborating with Dr Josie Booth at the University of Edinburgh and Dr Trish Gorely at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
Response to Daly-Smith et al.'s commentary on 'The Daily Mile Commentary: Chesham RA, Booth JN, Sweeney EL, Ryde GC, Gorely T, Brooks NE & Moran CN (2019) Response to Daly-Smith et al.'s commentary on 'The Daily Mile makes primary school children more active, less sedentary and improves their fitness and body
Article | The Daily Mile: What factors are associated with its implementation success?
Ryde GC, Booth JN, Brooks NE, Chesham RA, Moran CN & Gorely T (2018) The Daily Mile: What factors are associated with its implementation success?.
PLoS ONE
Article | The Daily Mile makes primary school children more active, less sedentary and improves their fitness and body composition: a quasi-experimental pilot study Chesham R, Booth JN, Sweeney EL, Ryde G, Gorely T, Brooks N & Moran CN (2018) The Daily Mile makes primary school children more active, less sedentary and improves their fitness and body composition: a quasi-experimental pilot study.
BMC
When kids run for 15 minutes in school every day, here’s what happens to their health Newspaper Article: Moran CN, Brooks N & Chesham R (2018) When kids run for 15 minutes in school every day, here’s what happens to their health.
The Conversation>.
10.05.2018.
Effect of a school-based intervention to promote healthy lifestyles in 7-11 year old children Article: Gorely T, Nevill ME, Morris JG, Stensel DJ & Nevill A (2009) Effect of a school-based intervention to promote healthy lifestyles in 7-11 year old children.
International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity>, 6, Art.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/education-and-the-curriculum-for-excellence:
The Curriculum for Excellence (CfE) is a bold landmark development in Scottish education for the 3-18 age range.
It was introduced in 2010 to provide a broad competence-based education suited to the demands of the 21st Century.
It aims to equip young people to thrive in modern complex democratic societies.
Since its implementation, there has been some criticism of CfE, often based on opinion rather than strong evidence.
To address this lack of data, education experts at Stirling felt independent research was needed to provide evidence to help ensure CfE provides the right opportunities for all children and young people.
Research at Stirling is influencing government policy around CfE and developing key tools for teachers to use in schools to improve education.
Our findings have helped other countries modernise their own models of education.
Curriculum for Excellence was implemented in Scottish schools in 2010, and has been regarded as the most significant educational development in a generation, with the potential to transform learning and teaching.
CfE aims to move away from top-down and prescriptive methods of teaching towards an approach that looks to match educational opportunities more closely with the potential of the individual child.
Teachers are given more independence to develop opportunities in the school and classroom, giving a new emphasis on flexible, local planning.
Critics of CfE argue that it downgrades the learning of facts and that it is too vague in what children are meant to learn.
There is a fear also that teachers do not understand CfE sufficiently to be able to teach the new curriculum effectively.
Yet many of these arguments are based on little evidence, as only limited research had been carried out to assess the impact of CfE.
"CfE generates a lot of politically motivated noise that is based on little evidence.
Improving CfE for children is complicated and needs to be supported by the kind of rigorous independent research we do at Stirling."
Researchers at Stirling felt that politically independent research was needed to fairly assess the impact of CfE.
In 2012,  Professor Mark Priestley and Sarah Minty, published a report suggesting that a major issue for the success of CfE lay in a gap between teacher practice and the aims and philosophy of the new curriculum.
At the time, progress in implementing CfE was variable across schools.
Many teachers felt there were tensions between the big ideas of the curriculum and the finer detail of its experiences and outcomes.
Schools that had taken a longer-term, big picture approach to implementing CfE had achieved more progress, especially if teachers had time to discuss planning and make the most of the new opportunities for teaching and learning.
is helping young people get the right opportunities
are providing support for teachers and local authorities
Developing education
through independent research at Stirling
Our research on CfE has provided evidence and guidance to the Scottish government in its drive to develop high-quality modern education.
Since 2017, Professor Priestley has been a member of the national Curriculum and Assessment Board.
The Board was established to improve curriculum and assessment policy in education and provide advice and guidance to Scottish Ministers.
We have also provided support programmes and workshops, based on our research, for teachers to help improve the development of CfE.
We are also working with Scottish local authorities and Education Scotland.
Education systems globally are developing new national curricula that increasingly focus on the learner, core competencies and the importance of teachers as curriculum developers.
Our researchers have also advised other countries as they seek to develop similar models to CfE.
For example, Dr Valerie Drew has worked with local authorities and teachers in Wales.
Her model for professional learning has influenced Welsh government policy on curriculum development.
In 2017, we hosted the 3rd European Conference on Curriculum Studies opened by Cabinet Secretary for Education and Skills, John Swinney.
This brought together senior policymakers and policy developers along with international curriculum scholars, all seeking to progress curriculum development.
The Stirling Centre for Research into Curriculum Making was established to improve conversations about curricula across research, policy and practice.
The network brings together Stirling researchers, colleagues in other universities and educational practitioners and policymakers.
The network includes contributors from Cyprus, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Canada and Jamaica.
This networking has led to collaborative bids for research funding and influential publications such as The Curriculum Journal.
Watch now
Recently, there has been emerging evidence from our research that in some areas of Scotland there has been a reduction in the number of subject choices offered to pupils despite the intentions of CfE of expanding the opportunities available to them.
This seems to be particularly the case in relation to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds.
This is very important as we know the subjects offered and studied at different ages can have a long-term influence on young people’s education and career options.
Our new research exploring this issue , funded by the Nuffield Foundation, will be led by Dr Marina Shapira from the Faculty of Social Sciences and supported by Professor Mark Priestley and a research team.
The £270,000 study will conduct the first in-depth evaluation of subject provision through CfE.
The two-year study is scheduled to report in Autumn 2021.
Research and big data analysis is ongoing at Stirling to assess curriculum provision and outcomes, the role of different actors such as local authorities and teachers, and impact of external pressure such as accountability and performance.
We want to know how this all impacts on the education of young people and the independent evidence we gather will help the Scottish Government further develop CfE.
"We've been arguing that there is not enough evidence to support claims made about the impacts of the Curriculum for Excellence.
Our new two-year research project, will go some way towards addressing this evidence gap."
Debate and critique in curriculum studies: new directions?
Priestley M & Philippou S (2019) Debate and critique in curriculum studies: new directions?.
The Curriculum Journal , 30 (4), pp.
347-351.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09585176.2019.1670948
Teacher sense-making in school-based curriculum development through Critical Collaborative Professional Enquiry Priestley M & Drew V (2017) Teacher sense-making in school-based curriculum development through Critical Collaborative Professional Enquiry.
In: Peters M, Cowie B & Menter I (eds.) A Companion to Research in Teacher Education .
Singapore: Springer, pp.
769-784.
https://www.springer.com/gb/book/9789811040733
Curriculum reform: Progress, tensions and possibilities Priestley M (2018) Curriculum reform: Progress, tensions and possibilities.
In: Bryce T, Humes W, Gillies D & Kennedy A (eds.) Scottish Education .
5th edn ed.
Secondary Science Teachers as Curriculum Makers: Mapping and Designing Scotland's New Curriculum for Excellence Wallace C & Priestley M (2017) Secondary Science Teachers as Curriculum Makers: Mapping and Designing Scotland's New Curriculum for Excellence.
Journal of Research in Science Teaching , 54 (3), pp.
324-349.
https://doi.org/10.1002/tea.21346
Reinventing the Curriculum: New Trends in Curriculum Policy and Practice Priestley M, Biesta G - Bloomsbury Academic 2013
Teacher Agency - an ecological approach Priestley M, Biesta G, Robinson S - Bloomsbury Academic 2015

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/scotlands-sporting-heritage:
Scotland has a rich and diverse sporting heritage, with the Commonwealth Games at the heart of Stirling’s work to preserve and celebrate the nation’s sporting history.
In 2014 Professor Richard Haynes, Faculty of Arts and Humanities, and University of Stirling archivist, Karl Magee, researched and curated an exhibition called ‘Hosts and Champions’ which was displayed in Glasgow as part of the Culture 2014 programme which accompanied the 2014 Commonwealth Games.
This exhibition gave a fascinating insight into Scotland’s Commonwealth Games story, spanning more than 80 years of international sporting competition from its origins as the British Empire Games in Hamilton, Canada, in 1930, through to Glasgow 2014.
The collection included photographs, interviews with competitors and medallists, designs, clothing, papers and artefacts which evoke a rich story of Scotland’s involvement in the Games, including as hosts in 1970, 1986 and 2014.
Following Glasgow 2014 Hosts and Champions was developed and expanded into a touring exhibition which brought the story of Scotland’s contribution to the Commonwealth Games to communities across Scotland.
"The Archive preserves and shares the inspirational stories of Team Scotland’s sporting heroes and provides a unique insight into Scotland’s contribution to the Commonwealth Games movement."
Our exhibition
visited 20 venues in Scotland and the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Australia, travelling 22,608 miles in total
From 2015-2019
the exhibition was on public display in venues across Scotland for 83 weeks, and for one week in Australia
helped to grow the archive by 205% - from 240 boxes to 490 boxes - due to the Hosts and Champions project
The touring exhibition had a big impact on diverse audiences across Scotland.
Between 2015 and 2018 the Hosts and Champions exhibition toured twenty different venues, travelling 2,228 miles and with over 200,000 visitors.
The exhibitions were co-produced with local hosts from the museum, cultural and sports community.
Touring the exhibition throughout Scotland helped diversify public access to the archive.
Commonwealth Games Scotland CEO, Jon Doig, said: “Turning the collection into the touring exhibitions under the Hosts and Champions programme has been vital in connecting Commonwealth Games Scotland and the University with current and former Team Scotland members and local communities across Scotland outwith the Games years and fulfilling a key aim of the Glasgow 2014 Games in particular.”
The tour and the exhibition emphasised the benefits of sharing a national archive with local communities, and unlocking educational, social and cultural benefits.
The outreach achieved by Stirling’s team contributed to sporting legacy initiatives such as Legacy 2014, and helped local museums and authorities attract new audiences.
"We wanted local communities to enjoy and reminisce on some of Scotland's great sporting achievements at the Games, as both hosts and champions!"
The team didn’t just celebrate Scotland’s sporting heritage with an exhibition.
They also saved this neglected yet important archive from further physical deterioration.
The collection is now properly preserved and archived by the University of Stirling.
It provides a focus for developing sport collections by collaborating with VisitScotland, the Scottish Government Legacy 2014, Sporting Memories Foundation and a range of sport, museum and cultural professionals to look after donations and new cultural artefacts and collaborations
In 2017 and 2018 the University of Stirling hosted two symposia in collaboration with the community interest company Sporting Heritage.
‘Pass It On: Celebrating Scotland’s Sporting Heritage’, held in February 2017, brought together museum professionals, sport organisations and sporting reminiscence professionals to share knowledge on how to broaden the reach of Scottish sport collections.
A second symposium, ‘Kick Off!
Engaging With Scotland’s Sporting Heritage’ was organised in collaboration with the Archives and Records Association and held at Hampden Stadium, Glasgow (February 2018) with a focus on preservation, significance and doctoral research opportunities available with a range of Scottish sport collections.
Collaboration with Sporting Heritage and the wider museum sector in Scotland led to the formation of a new Scottish Sport Heritage Consortium in 2019, of which Professor Haynes and Mr Magee are founding board members.
The team's engagement with Scotland’s Commonwealth family has led to the growth of the Commonwealth Games Scotland Archive through generous donations of personal papers and memorabilia from individuals associated with the Games.
These personal items provide an added layer of history to the stories preserved in the archive, providing further insight into the experiences of the athletes who have competed for Scotland at the Games.
Our ongoing partnership with Commonwealth Games Scotland ensures that we continue to collect and preserve the story of Scotland’s participation in the Games, recently adding new material relating to the 2018 Gold Coast Games.
The project team have also provided talks on the archive and their wider work to a range of heritage organisations and academic groups including the Archives and Records Association, the British Records Association, Sporting Memories Foundation Scotland, Sporting Heritage, the British Society of Sport History and the Australian Society of Archivists.
"The growth of our Commonwealth Games collections has added new layers of history to the stories preserved in the archive with the personal memorabilia donated by athletes providing further insights into their experiences of competing at the Games."
In 2018, a partnership between VisitScotland, CGS and the Stirling team led to the production of a bespoke exhibition ‘Aussie Hosts and Scottish Champions’ to celebrate the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia.
As well as Scotland’s sport treasures, Stirling’s archive also provided Australian-themed sporting memorabilia for the exhibition.
It was a unique opportunity to celebrate with the history of the Commonwealth Games – 10,000 miles away from Glasgow.
See the latest from our key partner, Commonwealth Games Scotland .
Australian-themed sporting memorabilia, from the University of Stirling archive, takes centre stage at a special Commonwealth Games exhibition on the Gold Coast.
Hosts and Champions is packed with photographs, clothes and assorted artefacts charting more than 80 years of Scotland’s participation in the Commonwealth Games.
A University of Stirling academic has won a prestigious literary prize for his book which details the early years of televised sport in Britain.
A new exhibition displaying Scotland’s proud boxing history will open to the public at the University of Stirling this month.
Items from Scotland’s sporting past shared the limelight with some of the country’s top sporting stars on the red carpet at a prestigious awards ceremony this week.
A special exhibition celebrating Scottish boxing’s greatest moments at the Commonwealth Games will take place this weekend.
BBC Sport in Black and White
Haynes R (2016) BBC Sport in Black and White .
Palgrave Studies in the History of the Media.
London: Palgrave Macmillan.
http://www.palgrave.com/gb/book/9781137454997; https://doi.org/10.1057/978-1-137-45501-7
From Sporting Past to Future Well-being: Sport Heritage and Intergenerational Learning in Glasgow
Haynes R (2020) From Sporting Past to Future Well-being: Sport Heritage and Intergenerational Learning in Glasgow.
Sport in History , 40 (2), pp.
257-277.
https://doi.org/10.1080/17460263.2019.1646670
Sports Coverage on BBC ALBA: Content, Value, and Position in the Scottish Broadcasting Landscape
Ramon X & Haynes R (2019) Sports Coverage on BBC ALBA: Content, Value, and Position in the Scottish Broadcasting Landscape.
Communication and Sport , 7 (2), pp.
221-243.
https://doi.org/10.1177/2167479518760485
Hosts and Champions: Taking the Commonwealth Games Scotland Archive on tour
Haynes R & Magee K (2015) Hosts and Champions: Taking the Commonwealth Games Scotland Archive on tour.
‘In a league of their own’: archives of the history of British sport and physical recreation, 2015 British Records Association conference, London, 26.11.2015-26.11.2015.
Archives: Journal of the British Records Association , L (130-1), pp.
37-46.
http://www.britishrecordsassociation.org.uk/archives-abstract/archives-volume-l-2015-double-sports-issue-abstracts/

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/stirlings-leading-role-in-human-rights-reform:
Scotland is responsible for observing and implementing international human rights obligations in devolved areas such as health, social security, education, housing and social care.
Ensuring human rights protection in this area is part of the UK’s international obligations.
At a practical level, it means that human rights are embedded across the work of government to ensure law and policy supports the dignity of everyone in Scotland.
There is a vibrant and dynamic conversation in Scotland about human rights reform.
Civil and political momentum has committed Scotland to a path where civil, political, economic, social, cultural, environmental rights are better protected.
Research undertaken by Professor Katie Boyle of the University of Stirling has been informing Scotland’s approach to the legal incorporation of the rights into domestic law.
Ultimately, this means giving people the opportunity to enjoy their rights and to have routes to effective remedies available if or when their rights are not adequately protected.
In 2015 the First Minister committed to looking at the different ways to make human rights more real on the ground for everyday life.
Human rights form part of the state’s international obligations under several international treaties and as part of the UN Sustainable Development Goals relating to food, water, health, education, eradication of poverty, climate action and peace and justice.
This commitment required exploring the different means of incorporating international human rights into our domestic framework.
In both 2015 and 2018 Professor Katie Boyle published research with the Scottish Human Rights Commission on ‘ Models Incorporation and Justiciability for Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ’.
This research addressed the questions around how to embed international human rights into domestic law – the research showed that human rights accountability should be embedded across the work of parliament, the government and the judiciary.
Importantly, if a violation (a breach of a right) occurs, then the research recommends that an effective remedy must be made available.
“THIS REPORT IS A WELCOME CONTRIBUTION TO A MUCH BIGGER DEBATE ABOUT HOW WE WORK TOGETHER AS A NATION IN ORDER TO MAKE RIGHTS REAL FOR EVERY MEMBER OF SOCIETY.”
Following the research undertaken with the Scottish Human Rights Commission on incorporation of human rights into domestic law Dr Boyle was appointed to advise the First Minister on the different ways Scotland can incorporate international human rights into domestic law.
In 2018 the First Minister’s Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership was set up by Scotland’s First Minister to make recommendations on how Scotland can continue to lead by example in the field of human rights.
This included Boyle’s research on incorporation of economic, social and cultural rights.
The Group, chaired by Professor Alan Miller, comprised of experts from the Universities of Stirling, Strathclyde, Edinburgh, Nottingham and Essex, the Faculty of Advocates and the Scottish Human Rights Commission and was supported by a large civil society reference group.
Operating independently from the Scottish Government, the Group published a report “ Recommendations for a new human rights framework to improve people’s lives ” on 10 December 2018.
The National Task Force on Human Rights Leadership was established in 2019 to implement the recommendations of the First Minister’s Advisory Group.
The National Task Force is co-chaired by the Social Security and Older People Cabinet Secretary Shirley-Anne Somerville and Professor Alan Miller, Professor of Practice in Human Rights Law, University of Strathclyde and Special Envoy of the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions.
The National Task Force’s remit includes making recommendations on a new statutory framework that incorporates economic, social, cultural and environmental rights into domestic law.
Dr Boyle of Stirling University advises the National Task Force as a member of the Academic Advisory Panel.
A team working on Access to Justice at the University of Stirling has contributed to key briefings on how to ensure access to justice for violations of human rights, including how to access an effective remedy.
In 2018 Dr Boyle was appointed to advise the Children’s and Young Person’s Commissioner on incorporation of a UN treaty that seeks to better protect the rights of children in Scotland.
In 2019 she was separately appointed to advise the Scottish Government as part of the UNCRC Working Group.
In 2020 the Scottish Government introduced a Bill that incorporates the convention into domestic law meaning children will more easily be able to enjoy their human rights, and hold government to account if their rights are not respected.
The Bill relies on research conducted as part of the University of Stirling Access to Justice for Social Rights Project .
The research in this project shows that rights holders must have access to an effective remedy when their rights are violated.
Based on Stirling research the Bill was amended to ensure that children have the right to request an effective remedy and to explain what would be the most effective remedy to them.
UoS experts on the UNCRC Working Group
Professor Katie Boyle, Professor Elaine Sutherland and Dr Fiona Morrison all from the University of Stirling gave evidence to the Scottish Parliament on the UNCRC (Incorporation) (Scotland) Bill 2020.
The National Task Force on Human Rights Leadership will produce a report on Scotland’s Next Steps for human rights reform.
Once this report is finalised the Scottish Government will be tasked with implementing recommendations, including on how to ensure access to justice for violations of economic, social, cultural and environmental rights.
Stirling’s Access to Justice for Social Rights project will continue to inform the debate on incorporation of international human rights and access to effective remedies for violations.
Scotland has an opportunity to set an example of international best practice in implementing the recommendations of the National Task Force and through the UNCRC (Incorporation) (Scotland) Bill.
This will enable people living in Scotland, including children, to more easily access their rights to housing, health, education, social security and environmental justice in line with the state’s international obligations and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The First Minister of Scotland’s advisory group on human rights leadership – which includes a University of Stirling academic – has recommended a new framework to improve people’s daily lives.
The Scottish Parliament should be an international human rights leader, according to a report citing research by a University of Stirling academic.
Scotland can show the world how human rights can be effectively enshrined in law, a Scottish Human Rights Commission report authored by a University of Stirling academic has suggested.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/enhancing-avalanche-safety-through-philosophy:
Every year, there are approximately 100 avalanche fatalities in Europe alone, with many more people injured in avalanche accidents whilst participating in outdoor sports.
In an attempt to enhance safety in avalanche terrain, one Stirling academic has been exploring the role of human decision-making in avalanche accidents, with his findings helping to inform best practice among mountain safety practitioners, professionals and educators around the world.
Dr Philip Ebert is a Senior Philosophy Lecturer at Stirling and qualified ski leader with many years of experience on the snow.
His research on risk, rationality, and reasoning has dovetailed naturally with his passion for outdoor sports – where decision-making in dangerous territory can be a matter of life and death.
After his involvement in an avalanche incident in 2012, Dr Ebert delved further into the nature of how people make decisions in outdoor sports environments.
He explored, for instance, how avalanche decision-making can give rise to an overconfidence bias.
This can easily arise when an individual decision-maker misinterprets successful avalanche avoidance as a sign of competent decision-making.
More recently, Dr Ebert identified a set of core lessons for decision-making in avalanche terrain which inspired fellow researchers from the world-leading Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research in Switzerland to test and corroborate his theoretical lessons.
Finally, since most skiers venture into the outdoors in groups, Dr Ebert’s most recent research focuses on how groups can improve their decision-making by drawing on insights from social choice theory – a branch of philosophy, economics, and political theory that focuses on formal theories of group decisions.
"The concepts Philip has illuminated are passed to a wide range of instructors, climbers, leaders, leisure managers and coaches on an ongoing basis and provide credibility to the nature of my own practice and the genesis of that of others."
From 2013-2020, Dr Ebert presented his research on avalanche terrain at several International Snow Science Workshops - the world’s largest workshop forum for snow and avalanche education, as well as at smaller workshops in France, Norway and Scotland.
His work is cited in one of the most widely used textbooks in avalanche education in the English-speaking world, Staying Alive in Avalanche Terrain by Bruce Tremper, former director of the Utah Avalanche Center.
Dr Ebert was also invited to contribute content for the British Mountain Guides (BMG) training programme on avalanche decision-making – the only UK qualification valid abroad for climbing and skiing off-piste on glacial terrain.
The Stirling academic has also worked closely with outdoor educators at Glenmore Lodge, Scotland’s National Outdoor Training Centre, where he presented his work at the largest Continuing Professional Development event in the UK for outdoor instructors.
He has since interacted with a wide range of outdoor professionals, e.g.
with Alan Halewood (Technical Advisor to NICAS – the UK’s young climbing scheme) who credits Dr Ebert’s research as having “informed and underpinned my own practice as a professional Mountaineering Instructor.”
Dr Ebert has presented his research at workshops around the world, and his research is cited in one of the most widely used textbooks in avalanche education, Staying Alive in Avalanche Terrain by Bruce Tremper.
Comfort Zones is a short film featuring Dr Philip Ebert that examines what motivates some people to move from piste skiing to more explorative steep gully skiing.
The aim of the movie is to challenge widely held misconceptions of “extreme” skiers as mere daredevils or as reckless risk-seekers.
It also draws on research by and an interview with Professor Laurie Paul from Yale University.
The film has been screened at 14 different international film festivals and received very positive reviews in national newspapers.
In recognition of Dr Ebert’s expertise in avalanche safety education, he has been invited to fulfil a number or roles with national organisations.
In 2019, he was invited to become the first academic philosopher on the board of the Snow and Avalanche Foundation of Scotland (SAFOS).
He forms part of a reviews team that identifies new research of particular relevance for education and will attend future International Snow Science workshops in his capacity as a SAFOS representative.
Dr Ebert also provides advice and professional expertise to the Scottish Avalanche Information Service, which issues daily avalanche bulletins for skiers and mountaineers in the UK and attracts around one million visitors to its website each year.
In this role, he recently worked with the organisation to produce an extensive survey that is designed to enhance the way avalanche bulletins communicate risk to the many different people who rely on the Scottish Avalanche Information services when venturing into the Scottish Highlands in winter.
Dr Ebert's work with professional bodies and educators has also helped to inform his own research.
He is currently leading an AHRC-funded project entitled Varieties of Risk, with his colleague Dr Martin Smith (Edinburgh) which brings together academics from the UK, Europe, and US to challenge existing definitions of risk.
The project has received over £600,000 in funding from the AHRC and will run until 2023.
The AHRC-funded project "Varieties of Risk", led by Dr Ebert and his colleague Dr Martin Smith (Edinburgh), has received over £600,00 in funding to challenge and explore existing definitions of risk.
Read the Scotsman's review of Comfort Zones - a short film narrated by Dr Ebert that explores risk vs.
reward on the slopes.
The documentary was shown at 14 film festivals across Europe from 2018-2019.
An AHRC sponsored joint research project hosted by the University of Stirling and Edinburgh.
The projects brings together researchers in philosophy, economics, and psychology and discusses the prospects of a form of risk pluralism.
Dr Ebert highlighted some of the difficulties of developing competent decision-making skills at a Glenmore Lodge training event.
Varieties of Risk
Ebert PA, Smith M & Durbach I (2020) Varieties of Risk.
Philosophy and Phenomenological Research , 101 (2), pp.
432-455.
https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.12598
Bayesian reasoning in avalanche terrain: a theoretical investigation
Ebert P (2019) Bayesian reasoning in avalanche terrain: a theoretical investigation.
Journal of Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning , 19 (1), pp.
84-95.
https://doi.org/10.1080/14729679.2018.1508356
Know Your Own Competence
Ebert P (2015) Know Your Own Competence.
Avalanche Review, 33 (4), pp.
22-24.
https://www.americanavalancheassociation.org/tar-archives
Competent vs incompetent rare event forecasting and success
Ebert P & Photopoulou T (2013) Bayes' beacon: avalanche prediction, competence and evidence for competence.
Modelling the effect of competent and incompetent predictions of highly improbable events.
In: Proceedings, 2013 International Snow Science Workshop (ISSW), Grenoble, France.
International Snow Science Workshop (ISSW) Proceedings.
International Snow Science Workshop 2013, Grenoble, France, 07.10.2013-11.10.2013.
Grenoble, France: Montana State University, pp.
363-370.
http://arc.lib.montana.edu/snow-science/item.php?id=1817

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/uncovering-forgotten-history-and-shaping-a-sense-of-place:
The Benedictine Abbey of Dunfermline is one of the most important ecclesiastical sites in Scotland and the royal mausoleum of the medieval Scottish kingdom.
Stirling research has been central to reshaping its rich story and bringing its historical significance to the fore.
The magnificent Fife abbey, founded in the 11 th -12 th Century, is the resting place of Scotland’s only officially canonised saint, Saint Margaret, alongside seven kings of Scots including David I and, most famously, Robert the Bruce.
The Abbey Church was built on top of the medieval building in the 19 th Century and is currently celebrating its 200 th anniversary year.
Like London’s Westminster Abbey or Paris’ St Denis Abbey, Dunfermline is a Benedictine royal cult church and, stationed along pilgrim routes towards St Andrews, served as a major Scottish political and religious centre in its heyday.
Despite this, much of the Abbey’s spiritual and material history has remained lost or obscured and its wider cultural importance neglected – until now.
Since 2015, Stirling researchers – led by Dr Michael Penman – have uncovered evidence for the true internal layout of the church and radically reframed people’s understanding of this significant site.
Bringing together the Abbey’s custodians, the Abbey Church Kirk Session, Fife Council and Historic Environment Scotland (HES) with local groups, Stirling’s interdisciplinary investigations have preserved, championed and redeveloped this major heritage attraction.
Using a combination of historical research, ground-penetrating radar and liturgy and digital visualisation, Dr Penman and colleagues Professor Richard Oram (Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities) and Dr Thomas Turpie (History Research Assistant and Lecturer), working with radar expert Erica Carrick Utsi, revealed the Abbey’s true and complex development over time.
The team uncovered evidence of the original layout of the choir of the Abbey and radar images allowed them to create a speculative plan of the lost medieval area, which was left ruinous following the Protestant Reformation in 1560.
Their work also found evidence for the lost high altar settings of the Abbey choir, a formerly unnoticed southern transept chapel and aisle dedicated to St John the Baptist, and detected a possible programme of Catholic worship and burial within the Abbey’s lost choir.
"We hope our work helps shift away from past over-focus on just a few elements of this famous site – chiefly Robert Bruce’s grave – and allows us to re-envisage the abbey as a complex spiritual and physical whole, evolving as a community over time."
Radar and archival evidence also provided evidence of more than 15 potential and previously undiscovered elite burials and raised questions about the true grave site of Bruce, Robert I King of Scots.
These discoveries have made a significant contribution to an enhanced sense of place and cultural significance in relation to the historic site.
Dr Michael Penman said: “Using a combination of methods, we have been able to undertake a recreation of Dunfermline’s monastic choir, royal burial grounds and pilgrimage shrines.
Working closely with the Abbey’s custodians, the local community and many other stakeholders was central to this project’s success as we were able to take everyone on a journey of discovery with us.
“We hope our work helps shift away from past over-focus on just a few elements of this famous site – chiefly Robert Bruce’s grave – and allows us to re-envisage the abbey as a complex spiritual and physical whole, evolving as a community over time.
In challenging a number of preconceptions about Dunfermline, this work contributes to further debate and investigation of this fascinating church and its worship long into the future.”
The footprint and engagement around the historians’ work is significant.
Stirling’s historical reframing and refocus have contributed to between a 35 and 40% rise in visitor numbers to the Abbey Church and Palace site across 2017-19 and informed a substantial redraft of HES’ Dunfermline Abbey and Palace Property-in-Care ‘Statement of Cultural Significance’.
New heritage displays, which speak to the medieval abbey’s broad historic importance unearthed by the Stirling team, were also erected in 2020 and will inform the future revision of visitor information materials including illustrations, guidebook, panels and the website.
The team have shared their findings and passion for the Abbey’s heritage via workshops, public lectures, conferences, podcasts and digital exhibitions across the British Isles and France and bi-centenary celebrations for Dunfermline’s 19 th -century Abbey Church saw Penman’s research contribute to a commemorative play, ‘Bones, Bogles and Coronets’.
Throughout the project, Penman’s activity has encouraged and empowered Dunfermline people to contribute their knowledge to further inform the heritage interpretation at the Church and communicate a more real sense of medieval worship.
This collective approach to highlighting and chronologising aspects of the building and why it survives as a working church, has helped guides bring the past to life and enhanced its value to custodians, locals and visitors alike and informed the strategic direction of Dunfermline’s medieval story to the present day.
Stirling’s historical reframing and refocus have contributed to between a 35 and 40% rise in visitor numbers to the Abbey Church and Palace site across 2017-19.
The work carried out at Dunfermline Abbey has made links with parallel Fife heritage projects and inspired plans for wider community linkage in the form of a new Fife Pilgrim Way – a 64-mile walking and cycling network opened in July 2019 which attracted around 25,000 users in its first year.
Dunfermline has now been positioned as a key highlight along this heritage network thanks to the new-found and varied importance of this site, with dedicated tours created centred around the Abbey.
Penman and the team’s research continues to be used in relation to heritage work around the city and its heritage quarter as a whole, with a public conference on Sir Patrick Geddes’ plans for the regeneration of Dunfermline’s Pittencreiff Park and medieval heritage quarter set for 4 June 2021.
A community heritage project in nearby Inverkeithing led by Dr Tom Turpie was also praised for engaging local communities in the exploration and appreciation of their heritage, winning a Highly Commended Marsh Award for Best Project with Paid Support.
In another offshoot, Research Associate Dr Susan Buckham of Kirkyard Consulting, is now heading up Dunfermline Churchyard's Project , to explore the history of the graveyards at the abbey.
Plans are also underway for the creation of a single, integrated history of the site for the first time based on the research undertaken.
These plans include collaborative biography of the Abbey focussed on St Margaret’s shrine and digital multimedia displays that recreate the lost choir and nave and convey the layers of worship and burial that can be found at the Abbey.
Penman’s work has also fed directly into a new project to better understand the Abbey’s burial grounds and their cultural importance to the local community.
More widely, this project has pioneered a model for heritage research combining history and radar that HES are now applying to other spiritual sites across Scotland.
The work carried out at Dunfermline Abbey has made links with parallel Fife heritage projects – including a 64-mile walking and cycling network opened in 2019 which attracted around 25,000 users in its first year.
We seek to combine historical research, an understanding of church liturgy and architecture, environmental data, the results of geo-physical surveying and archaeology, and an awareness of modern heritage practice and values, to provide a deeper understanding of the complex lives of these buildings, their estates and their worshiping communities.
The tomb of Robert the Bruce discovered at Dunfermline Abbey 200 years ago may actually be that of King David I, according to new research.
M.
Penman and E.
Utsi, In Search of the Royal mausoleum at the Benedictine Abbey of Dunfermline, Fife: Medieval Liturgy, Antiquarianism and a Ground-Penetrating Radar Pilot Survey, 2016-19 (2020) – 164 pp available from Stirling University at https://dspace.stir.ac.uk/handle/1893/31619#.YLUooahKjIV or Historic Environment Scotland at https://canmore.org.uk/collection/2103329/details/
R.
Fawcett, J.
Luxford, R.D.
Oram, and T.
Turpie, 'Dunfermline Abbey' in The Corpus of Scottish Medieval Parish Churches at https://arts.st-andrews.ac.uk/corpusofscottishchurches/site.php?id=158524
S.
Buckham, Dunfermline Abbey Graveyards project Desk-top Survey - Report (2020) at https://www.storre.stir.ac.uk/handle/1893/32229#.YLYhq6HTWUk
T.
Turpie, Fife Pilgrim Way: Report Detailing Historical References to Pilgrimage and the Cult of the Saints in Fife (2016, 119pp.) at https://d1ssu070pg2v9i.cloudfront.net/pex/fcct/2019/08/05142329/Historical-Research-FPW-1.pdf

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/ensuring-transparency-and-responsibility-in-surveillance-camera-use:
Creating a National Surveillance Camera Strategy was crucial to making sure surveillance cameras are used responsibly and with transparency.
One Stirling academic has conducted over 20 years of research, which has been pivotal to the creation of the strategy.
Professor William Webster, a world leading authority on the governance of surveillance cameras, formed the Centre for Research into Information, Surveillance and Privacy (CRISP) in 2012, and has led a variety of research initiatives exploring the consequences and impacts of technologically mediated surveillance on services and society.
His work on surveillance cameras has been vital in the creation of the Surveillance Camera Commissioner’s (SCC) landmark National Surveillance Camera Strategy for England and Wales.
This world-first strategy lays out how all public surveillance cameras in England and Wales should be managed and used.
Professor Webster’s research argues that it is important for appropriate governance and management mechanisms to be put in place for new forms of digital surveillance to ensure that they are delivered in the public interest.
Professor Webster, Chair of Public Policy and Management, in the Stirling Business School, explained: “Surveillance is powerful and shapes human relations, particularly between the surveyors and the surveilled – and in the case of surveillance cameras this would be citizen-state relations.
“Healthy public discussion around how and why they are used is also essential for effective governance of surveillance cameras, to ensure public trust and support.
Therefore, there must be transparency around the purpose, design and usage of the systems.”
The need for a national strategy has become increasingly important as new digital forms of surveillance have been developed, and as these technologies evolve to include automated processes like automatic face recognition.
Professor Webster continued: “New forms of surveillance, such as automated facial recognition, Smart CCTV and body-worn video cameras, often have data processes that are mostly invisible to people being surveyed.
Therefore, it’s crucial that there’s also guidance around the best practice and ethical use of all manner of surveillance cameras.”
"Healthy public discussion around how and why they are used is also essential for effective governance of surveillance cameras, to ensure public trust and support."
The National Surveillance Camera Strategy for England and Wales, launched in March 2017, governs the use and management of public space surveillance cameras, provides oversight of surveillance camera use, sets out the principles of use, and determines how cameras are managed and used.
The National Strategy covers more than 600 public authorities and a larger number of private and commercial organisations, including private security firms and national retailers.
Tony Gleason, Chair of the Public CCTV Managers Association and local authority lead on the SCC’s National Surveillance Camera Strategy expert working group, said: “The Strategy has been invaluable to local authorities, guiding our responsible development and deployment of new and existing camera systems.”
All public space surveillance camera systems in England and Wales now demonstrate appropriate managerial control, public support and trust in their existence and operation.
Authorities must legally follow the principles and practices laid out in the strategy.
This makes sure that providers are following the best practice and operate with appropriate governance structures in place.
The National Strategy has also had a major impact on public policy and the delivery of services in a number of public policy arenas, including the police use of surveillance cameras.
Here there have been changes to both procedures and training, including those relating to public engagement.
The National Strategy - informed by Stirling research - covers more than 600 public authorities and a larger number of private and commercial organisations, including private security firms and national retailers.
The National Strategy’s success continues to depend on surveillance camera operators engaging with the public about their use of surveillance.
One of the SCC’s key objectives for the strategy was to “make information freely available to the public about the operation of surveillance camera systems”.
Professor Webster’s research was vital to making sure engagement between CCTV users and the public was a key part of the strategy.
He led the ‘civic engagement’ strand of the strategy to make sure public awareness and transparency were core principles.
As part of the programme, Webster organised and hosted a consultation event on the National Strategy in London and a public ‘Question Time’ event on the Future of Surveillance Cameras.
Professor Webster added: “The civic engagement strand of the strategy was crucial to ensuring that the public are aware of surveillance camera usage and that there is discourse around how they are used.
“Transparency around their usage is particularly important at a time where new technologies are becoming more common and their capabilities aren’t generally well understood by the public at large.”
Professor Webster also invented and lead the world’s first Surveillance Camera Day, which took place in June 2019.
The event raised public awareness about surveillance camera usage and was covered in The Times , The Telegraph, BBC 2’s The Politics Show , Radio 5’s Live breakfast show, as well as generating 95,000 impressions on Twitter.
Webster also wrote an article in The Conversation , which received more than 80,000 hits.
One aspect of the Surveillance Camera Day was a ‘doors open’ initiative whereby members of the public were welcomed into CCTV control centres to see how they were used.
The day was hailed as a “huge success” by Tony Porter, Surveillance Camera Commissioner, and generated a national conversation about surveillance cameras.
The event also emphasised the need for local authorities and police forces to be open and transparent about surveillance camera usage.
Webster also organised an expert panel of the CPDP (Computers, Privacy and Data Protection) Conference in Brussels in January 2020 on the governance of face recognition surveillance cameras, extending policy discussions to a wider group of international stakeholders.
The world’s first Surveillance Camera Day - created by Professor Webster - generated a national conversation about surveillance cameras and was covered in The Times, The Telegraph, on BBC 2 and Radio 5 Live.
The world’s first National Surveillance Camera day is being launched by a University of Stirling academic to stimulate public debate about the spread of the technology.
The operation of surveillance cameras is the subject of a new UK strategy, shaped by a University of Stirling privacy expert.
The future of surveillance cameras in the UK will be debated in a Question Time-style event hosted by a University of Stirling academic.
Surveillance cameras will soon be unrecognisable - time for an urgent public conversation
Webster W (2019) Surveillance cameras will soon be unrecognisable - time for an urgent public conversation.
The Conversation.
18.06.2019.
The rise of body-worn video cameras: A new surveillance revolution?
Webster, C.W.R.
and Leleux, C.
In: Clayton Newell, B.
(eds.) Police on Camera: Surveillance, Privacy, and Accountability .
Routledge Studies in Surveillance.
Routledge, 2020.
Surveillance and Democracy in Europe
Ball, K.
and Webster, C.W.R.
(eds.).
Surveillance and Democracy in Europe.
Routledge Studies in Surveillance, Routledge.
Hardback published in 2019, paperback in 2020.
Video Surveillance: Practices and Policies in Europe
Webster, C.W.R., T ö pfer, E., Klauser, F.
and Raab, C.D.
(eds.) Video Surveillance: Practices and Policies in Europe.
Innovation in the Public Sector Series, Vol.18, IOS Press, 2012.
Surveillance as X-ray
Surveillance as X-ray, Information Polity, Vol.17, No3-4, pp.251-265, 2012.
CCTV policy in the UK: Reconsidering the evidence base
CCTV policy in the UK: Reconsidering the evidence base’, Surveillance and Society, Vol.6, No.1, pp.10-22, 2009.
Living in surveillance societies: The normalisation of surveillance in Europe and the threat of Britain's bad example
Murakami Wood, D.
and Webster, C.W.R.
Living in surveillance societies: The normalisation of surveillance in Europe and the threat of Britain's bad example, Journal of Contemporary European Research, Vol.5, No.2, pp.259-273, 2009.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/combatting-poverty-and-hunger-via-sustainable-aquaculture:
Sustainable aquaculture is essential to combatting hunger, poverty and ecosystem overexploitation.
Our research, which was supported by £1.3m of funding, has improved aquaculture efficiency across the world.
Aquaculture – the farming of fish, crustaceans, molluscs, aquatic plants, algae, and other organisms – is the fastest-growing food production sector in the world.
Ensuring the practice is sustainable is vital to improving its efficiency.
Our research into the carrying capacity of aquaculture ecosystems has been an important factor in improving sustainability.
Carrying capacity is the population of aquatic organisms that can be sustained at a steady-state within the production area.
Identifying the carrying capacity of each aquatic site, and ensuring it is not exceeded, makes sure the farming is efficient and has a minimal impact on the environment.
This can also increase production through better use of resource – reducing hunger and poverty.
The University of Stirling Institute of Aquaculture’s research has helped improve and promoted examples of best practice of aquaculture efficiency across the world.
The main focus of the work has been researching and implementing carrying capacity within aquatic food production sites.
The Institute’s research into the aquatic food production site’s carrying capacity takes into account physical, ecological, production and socio-economic aspects of the environment.
The work has been supported by funding of more than £1.3m, which was awarded to Stirling from national and international funding organisations such as Irish Government and INAPESCA (Mexico), Darwin Initiative, the Leverhulme/Royal Society, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and EU H2020.
There were several key elements to the research, including using computer-based environmental models, developing a UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO-UN) Technical Guidance report, spatial and carrying capacity modelling, and the development of a platform for new policy recommendations for aquaculture licensing through multi-partner collaborations.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations say Stirling research has being central to the development of carrying capacity thinking in aquaculture.
Our pioneering work has instrumental in implementing the FAO-UN’s Code of Conduct and the Ecosystem Approach to Aquaculture.
They described our research as being central to the development of carrying capacity thinking in aquaculture.
The research came from an initial approach developed in Mulroy Bay, Ireland, in 2003 which saw a novel computer-based model approach improve the Marine Institute in Ireland’s environment practice for aquaculture.
EU aquaculture, including the UK, produces 1.3 million tonnes of seafood, worth €4.4 billion, providing employment for around 39,000 people.
Since 2008 there has been no overall increase in production, in part through poor licensing and regulatory frameworks.
The University of Stirling coordinated the EU H2020 TAPAS collaborative project (2016-2020), which developed guidelines and recommendations based around carrying capacity.
These have been incorporated in the Updated Strategic Guidelines for the Sustainable Development of EU Aquaculture, produced by DG MARE, to implement future production strategies in Europe.
Guidelines from a Stirling-coordinated project have been incorporated into the Updated Strategic Guidelines for the Sustainable Development of EU Aquaculture, to implement future production strategies in Europe.
Ghana, in particular, has seen declining harvests in the fisheries industry since the 1990s, causing a seafood trade deficit of more than $300m since 2013.
The country depends on fish for 60% of its dietary protein and 10% of the population work in the fisheries industry.
The Ghanaian government launched the Ghana National Aquaculture Development Plan in 2012 and created the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture Development in 2013 to rapidly and substantially increase aquaculture production.
Stirling research has allowed the initiative to successfully and sustainably develop the aquaculture industry.
This has contributed to the economic security of 58,000 Ghanaians working in aquaculture and increasing food security for the equivalent of two million people, an increase of more than 450,000 people since our work in Ghana began.
Cage aquaculture management has been significantly improved and management zones have been implemented as a result of the Institute’s research at Lake Volta, improving sustainable farming, and improving food security for future generations.
Furthermore, our academics have trained more than 40 representatives from all major NGOs and government departments in Ghana, with 95% of participants finding the work to be beneficial to aquaculture development for the area.
Ghana’s Council for Scientific and Industrial Research also found the work contributed significantly to production.
Professor Trevor Telfer said: “Our work helped build a foundation for greater knowledge and understanding of cage aquaculture management and regulation in Lake Volta.
“A follow up questionnaire in 2019 found that 67% of the same stakeholders still use our tools and training for aquaculture management and practice.”
Stirling research has contributed to the economic security of 58,000 Ghanaians working in aquaculture and increasing food security for the equivalent of ftwo million people, an increase of more than 450,000 people since our work in Ghana began.
In Mexico, aquaculture production fell by 28% between 2000 and 2013, despite the Government’s aims to sustainably increase per capita fish consumption and improve rural health and economic wellbeing.
Stirling research on carrying capacity has significantly contributed to reversing this trend.
Dr Antonio Campos Mendoza of the Biotecnología e Innovaciones Acuícolas y Pecuarias de Michoacán (BIAP) attested that the research has led to higher levels of awareness around key issues and tools used to manage sustainable aquaculture.
This increased understanding led to an additional 4,000 tonnes per annum of commercial tilapia production in five lakes, representing 7% of all tilapia production in Mexico.
Local income has also been boosted by $9m annually.
The success of carrying capacity modelling workshops for the National Fisheries Department (INAPESCA) in Mexico has led to further Mexican government funding being released so work can continue to develop and enhance tilapia production.
The team is also working on a number of new projects in Europe and Africa, looking at further carrying capacity and site suitability research to ensure efficient and sustainable use of resources and its implementation into governance, regulation and certification.
New landmark assessment finds fish, shellfish and algae offer untapped potential for global development if the right policies and investments are put in place.
Waterbody scale assessment using spatial models to identify suitable locations for cage aquaculture in large lake systems: A case study in Volta Lake, Ghana
Asmah R, Falconer L, Telfer TC, Karikari AY, Al Wahaibi M, Xia IF, Handisyde N, Quansah KE, Amoah DK, Alshihhi J & Ross LG (2021) Waterbody scale assessment using spatial models to identify suitable locations for cage aquaculture in large lake systems: A case study in Volta Lake, Ghana.
Aquaculture Research, 52 (8), pp.
3854-3870.
https://doi.org/10.1111/are.15230
Managing aquaculture in multi-use freshwater bodies: the case of Jatiluhur reservoir
Taskov D, Telfer T, Bengtson D, Rice MA, Little D & Murray F (2021) Managing aquaculture in multi-use freshwater bodies: the case of Jatiluhur reservoir.
Environmental Research Letters, 16 (4), Art.
No.: 044022.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/abe009
Use of geographic information systems for aquaculture and recommendations for development of spatial tools
Falconer L, Middelboe AL, Kaas H, Ross L & Telfer T (2020) Use of geographic information systems for aquaculture and recommendations for development of spatial tools.
Reviews in Aquaculture, 12 (2), pp.
664-677.
https://doi.org/10.1111/raq.12345
Heavy metal concentrations and sediment quality of a cage farm on Lake Volta, Ghana
Karikari AY, Asmah R, Anku WW, Amisah S, Agbo NW, Telfer TC & Ross LG (2020) Heavy metal concentrations and sediment quality of a cage farm on Lake Volta, Ghana.
Aquaculture Research.
https://doi.org/10.1111/are.14555
The importance of calibrating climate change projections to local conditions at aquaculture sites
Falconer L, Hjøllo SS, Telfer TC, McAdam BJ, Hermansen Ø & Ytteborg E (2020) The importance of calibrating climate change projections to local conditions at aquaculture sites.
Aquaculture, 514, Art.
No.: 734487.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aquaculture.2019.734487

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/utilising-computer-science-to-save-businesses-time-and-money:
Research undertaken by Stirling’s computer science researchers has provided invaluable efficiency solutions for large-scale organisations managing expansive workforces and complex operations.
By increasing the speed at which essential software runs and improving the efficiency of jobs being allocated to team members, academics have allowed staff to make better use of their time, contributing to vast economic savings.
Largely funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and led by Dr Sandy Brownlee, Stirling research has included investigations into computational modelling, metaheuristic design and search techniques.
Their approaches have been adopted within several global companies and led to numerous industrial collaborations.
British Telecommunications has a large-scale field engineering workforce that builds and maintains its core telecommunications network and service its customers.
This is a vital piece of infrastructure that connects most UK households and businesses and is resold by many UK Internet Service Providers.
The Stirling team set to enhance workforce rostering for all 23,000 field engineers via a carefully devised engineer scheduling system, saving BT £1.29m in just three years.
By drawing on research into workforce rostering and scheduling and developing improved algorithms, the experts were able to automate and optimise the allocation of attendance patterns to employees.
This resulted in the development of a suite called iRoster, which after launching at the start of 2018, had saved BT over £1 million by the end of 2020.
The roster system was so successful in its first three years of operating that work on the project is now being rolled out beyond field engineers to be implemented by teams based at desks and offices.
Since its launch in early 2018 to the end of 2020, iRoster has saved British Telecommunications (BT) over £1 million.
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is an international airline carrying more than 34 million passengers per year to 162 destinations.
Dr Brownlee worked with the airline to improve efficiency across the board by better utilising their in-house application called Opium, which tests the schedules for all KLM flights worldwide.
Stirling’s tuning and optimisation of software meant Opium was able to make more accurate predictions and run 20% faster.
By successfully automatically improving computer code, the reliability of scheduling for 200,000 KLM flights increased significantly, reaching around 60 million passengers.
Not only did this reduce the airline’s costs, it also saved a total of two years of personnel time.
As a result, the automated software tuning was adopted across the KLM and Air France development teams.
The improved software was in place for two years and led to a fundamental shift in best practice at the company, which was geared toward the setting of software parameters, saving developer time and vastly improving efficiencies.
Improvements to KLM's in-house application significantly increased the reliability of scheduling for 200,000 flights, benefiting around 60 million passengers and saving two years of personnel time.
Computer scientists have also applied their optimisation work in healthcare settings, working with the Janus Rehabilitation Centre in Iceland.
The independent vocational rehabilitation centre provides a structured programme of therapy to help people recovering from physical and mental health issues, helping them back into education or work.
The centre, which treats around 150 patients at any one time, is one of the three largest facilities of its kind in the country.
By helping people return to employment or education, the centre saved Icelandic society £8m between 2017 and 2019.
To help contribute to further savings and help things run as smoothly as possible, Stirling researchers created bespoke, automated bug-fixing software for the company.
This freed up time for the Janus team to improve functionality and performance elsewhere.
By giving the centre access to predictive modelling software tailored to their specific needs, and providing ongoing support and maintenance at a fraction of the usual cost, researchers helped the centre reduce their development costs.
In turn, the centre saved the Icelandic economy a staggering sum of at least £4.2m.
Stirling’s Dr Saemundur Haraldsson also developed a predictive modelling tool for Janus which has been used in the decision-making process for 395 patients since January 2017.
This led to a 39% increase in the success rate of people returning to education or work, which translates to an extra £1.4m in savings to Icelandic society.
The work has led to ongoing collaborations between the Stirling research team, Linköping University, Karlstad University, an Icelandic vocational rehabilitation centre, the Icelandic Government, a Swedish Coordination Association (Samordningsförbund), and two Swedish local government councils.
AI, and indeed most software, is still largely programmed by humans.
Yet there are signs that this might be changing, as several programming tools are emerging which help to automate software testing.
Over the past couple of decades, the research literature has filled up with endless new nature-based metaphors for algorithms.
But is it possible to develop one tool that can solve complex problems better than all the others?
In this talk, Dr Sandy Brownlee looks at a few approaches taken to use visualisation for trying to improve trust in the solutions of search-based optimisation.
Predicting Changes in Quality of Life for Patients in Vocational Rehabilitation
Haraldsson S, Brynjolfsdottir RD, Gudnason V, Tomasson K & Siggeirsdottir K (2018) Predicting Changes in Quality of Life for Patients in Vocational Rehabilitation.
In: EAIS 2018 proceedings.
Evolving and Adaptive Intelligent Systems, Rhodes, Greece, 25.05.2018-27.05.2018.
Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/EAIS.2018.8397182
Aircraft taxi time prediction: Feature importance and their implications
Wang X, Brownlee AEI, Woodward JR, Weiszer M, Mahfouf M & Chen J (2021) Aircraft taxi time prediction: Feature importance and their implications.
Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 124, Art.
No.: 102892.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2020.102892
Search-based energy optimization of some ubiquitous algorithms
Brownlee A, Burles N & Swan J (2017) Search-based energy optimization of some ubiquitous algorithms.
IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence, 1 (3), pp.
188-201.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TETCI.2017.2699193
A hybrid metaheuristic approach to a real world employee scheduling problem
Reid, K.
N., Li, J., Brownlee, A.
E.
I., Kern, M., Veerapen, N., Swan, J.
& Owusu, G.
A Hybrid Metaheuristic Approach to a Real World Employee Scheduling Problem.
Proc.
of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference 2019, Prague, Czech Republic, pp 1311-1318
Exploring the accuracy - energy trade-off in machine learning
Brownlee, A.E.I., Adair, J., Haraldsson, S.O., and Jabbo, J.
Exploring the Accuracy - Energy Trade-off in Machine Learning.
Proceedings of the Genetic Improvement Workshop, International Conference on Software Engineering 2021.
Madrid, Spain, pp 11-18.
Fixing bugs in your sleep: How genetic improvement became an overnight success
Haraldsson, S.O., Woodward, J.R., Brownlee, A.
I.
& Siggeirsdottir, K.
Fixing Bugs in Your Sleep: How Genetic Improvement Became an Overnight Success.
Genetic Improvement Workshop in: Companion Proc.
of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference 2017, Berlin, Germany, pp 1513-1520

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-spotlights/improving-pre-hospital-emergency-care:
A low blood sugar level, or “hypoglycaemia”, is when the level of glucose in a patient’s blood drops too low – and it primarily affects those living with diabetes.
Unless treated quickly, hypoglycaemia can be very dangerous.
That’s why hypoglycaemia events account for between 48,000 and 98,376 UK emergency ambulance calls every single year.
In order to help emergency services better attend those calls and secure improved outcomes for patients, the University of Stirling launched a long-standing collaboration with the Scottish Ambulance Service (SAS) to further research in two key areas: hypoglycaemia emergencies and clinical handover.
As a result, our research has not only changed pre-hospital hypoglycaemia and handover practice across the UK but is even being adopted in the USA.
The University of Stirling's study, entitled “Improving pre-hospital emergency care” was designed to develop and evaluate a behavioural change intervention to improve the rates of individuals’ attendance at diabetes care providers after a hypoglycaemic event.
The University’s team consisted of:
While the team’s intervention form was popular with staff and patients, further research found it wasn’t making a significant difference to patients in terms of their follow-up care.
Population-based data was then studied to figure out whether there’d been a change in the incidence rates of people with types 1 and 2 diabetes needing emergency treatment for hypoglycaemia events.
The team discovered incidents were on the rise – and so researchers undertook Scotland’s first-ever national survey of hypoglycaemia awareness among people who use the ambulance service, including interviews comparing the experiences of patients both attended and not attended by an ambulance.
It turned out there was impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia amongst those who required an ambulance.
Next, researchers conducted the first-ever published study investigating perceptions of the handovers that take place between ambulance clinicians and prehospital care teams.
The team conducted a national cross-sectional survey, which led to the development of a shared mental health model through system standardisation across Scotland, a simple aid-memoire to support information recording and delivery, and the clear identification at incidents of a handover lead using simple handover cards.
Stirling’s hypoglycaemia emergency research improved UK Joint Royal College Ambulance Service Clinical Guidelines for paramedics attending hypoglycaemic emergencies – which involves up to 95,000 patients per year.
The new guidelines enable paramedics with the skills they need to address hypoglycaemia unawareness, and patients are now advised to follow-up their diabetes care to treat that unawareness.
This reduces the number of ambulance attendances those individuals need in the future.
The University’s emergency research also helped to improve third sector policy and service delivery because it has influenced how national third sector agencies develop their policies — including Diabetes Scotland and Chest Heart and Stroke, Scotland.
As a result of our research, those policies have evolved to become more evidence-based and have enhanced the ability of agencies to deliver their care services.
Handover of patient information is an extremely vital task when it comes to patient safety.
The University of Stirling’s research has subsequently helped to improve the quality and quantity of pre-alerts to emergency departments and reduced clinical information loss.
The Scottish Ambulance Service practice has accordingly adopted the research team’s handover cards and embedded this into their systems.
Those cards have since had a positive effect on patient care by enhancing communication levels between different roles across the emergency services.
That being said, the impact of Stirling’s emergency handover research has since extended beyond the borders of Scotland — with US states now having used the study to identify communication barriers within their own handover to develop processes and adopt more effective tools.
As a result, this research has not only led to positive patient outcomes for those living with types 1 and 2 diabetes here in the UK.
It’s made a global impact towards improving lives.
This research has not only led to positive patient outcomes for those living with types 1 and 2 diabetes here in the UK.
Improving self-referral for diabetes care following hypoglycaemic emergencies: a feasibility study with linked patient data analysis
Article: Duncan E & Fitzpatrick D (2016) Improving self-referral for diabetes care following hypoglycaemic emergencies: a feasibility study with linked patient data analysis.
BMC Emergency Medicine, 16, Art.
No.: 13.
Role and prevalence of impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia in ambulance service attendances to people who have had a severe hypoglycaemic emergency: a mixed-methods study
Article: Duncan EAS, Fitzpatrick D, Ikegwuonu T, Evans J & Maxwell M (2018) Role and prevalence of impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia in ambulance service attendances to people who have had a severe hypoglycaemic emergency: a mixed-methods study.
Temporal changes in frequency of severe hypoglycemia treated by emergency medical services in types 1 and 2 diabetes: a population-based data-linkage cohort study
Article: Wang H, Donnan PT, Leese C, Duncan E, Fitzpatrick D, Frier BM & Leese G (2017) Temporal changes in frequency of severe hypoglycemia treated by emergency medical services in types 1 and 2 diabetes: a population-based data-linkage cohort study

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/public-policy-hub/policy-briefings:
Our ground-breaking research is shaping debates and informing policy.
Access policy briefing papers summarising our research for policymakers and practitioners below.
Author: Richard Purves et al.
Date: August 2025 Abstract: This research explored the extent and nature of young people's exposure to alcohol sponsorship, including where and how often they see it, and their perceptions of it.
Researchers also investigated young people’s views on alibi and surrogate marketing.
Tags: Alcohol, sports, alcohol marketing, young people, sponsorship
Date: October 2024 Abstract: The ‘Football and Alcohol Scoping Study (FASST)’ explores the issues which would need to be considered in a pilot trialling the general sale of alcohol at Scottish football grounds.
Tags: Alcohol, football, sports, alcohol marketing
Author: Elaine Douglas et al.
Abstract: The Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS) COVID-19 Impact and Recovery Study is a multidisciplinary, large-scale study of older adults (aged 50) living in Scotland.
The study explored COVID-19 concerns in older adults and its impact on their willingness to (re)engage across health, social, and economic domains as Scotland’s economy and society emerged from the pandemic.
Date: December 2022 Tags: COVID-19, COVID, recovery, impact, older adults
Author: Dr Irena Connon et al.
Abstract: Climate risk for children is significantly different from that of the broader community, with children in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia most at risk from climate change in 2020.
This paper provides a descriptive overview of the findings of the Systematic Literature Review package from the Children’s Climate Risk Index (CCRI) Project.
Date: April 2022 Tags: Climate Change, Children, Young People, Climate Risk
Author: Professor Lena Dominelli et al.
This paper, authored by the Data for Children Collaborative, in partnership with UNICEF, overviews a Children’s Climate Risk Index, which helps to explain and measure the likelihood of climate, environmental and socio-economic impacts of climate change.
Date: November 2021 Tags: Climate Change, Children, Young People, Climate Risk, COP26
Author: Dr Richard Purves et al.
Abstract: In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, large events such as Euro 2020 present a challenge to public health and governments as the circulation of athletes and spectators poses issues for different risk environments such as transport, local hospitality venues and the event venue itself.
This briefing paper provides evidence regarding measures to mitigate virus transmission risks during EURO 2020 to inform the planning and delivery of future large sporting or cultural events.
Date: September 2021 Tags: COVID-19, mitigation, major events, EURO 2020, sport
Title: Using digital leisure to tackle social isolation: Insights from the BAMSA project Author: Professor Samantha Punch et al.
Date: September 2021 Abstract: Globally, loneliness and isolation are on the rise, with policymakers recognising that there is an epidemic of loneliness that spans the generations.
This briefing paper, drawing on findings from the Bridge: A Mind Sport for All (BAMSA) project, will be of particular relevance to those interested in developing safe and engaging leisure activities for older populations that provide meaningful connection.
Tags: Bridge, MindSport, loneliness, social connection, older people, COVID-19, lockdown, connectivity, digital leisure
Author: Dr Nathan Critchlow et al.
Abstract: Research routinely suggests a causal link between exposure to alcohol marketing and alcohol use among young people.
This briefing presents data examining awareness of alcohol marketing among adolescents in Scotland, changes in marketing awareness between 2017 and 2019 and what factors are associated with seeing alcohol marketing.
Date: August 2021 Tags: alcohol, alcohol marketing, adolescents, teens, teenagers, public health, marketing
Author: Tessa Parkes et al.
Abstract: The Youth in Iceland Model (YiIM)is a community-based approach aiming to delay young people’s substance use through reducing risk factors and increasing protective factors.
This paper considers how the approach can be adapted to for use in Dundee.
Date: April 2021 Tags: Substance use; harm reduction; drugs; alcohol; public health; young people; addiction
Author: Dr Annalisa Savaresi et al.
Date: April 2021 Abstract: Published ahead of the COP26 climate change conference in November, 202021, Dr Annalisa Savaresi and colleagues explore nature based solutions for climate change, people and biodiversity, in a briefing paper for the COP26 universities network.
Tags: Climate change, biodiversity, sustainability, resilience, COP26, environment
Author: Professor Iain Docherty et al.
Date: March 2021 Abstract: Covid-19 has forced countries around the world to make massive adaptations to the normal way of life to reduce the risk of the spread of the virus.
This briefing sets out new insights into how people’s travel patterns have adapted over time and why.
It draws on national data sources and a major panel survey of over 6000 people conducted in July and December 2020.
It calls for a major realignment of investment and policy to ensure that we do not return to the overcrowded, congested, polluting and unhealthy transport system that people had come to accept as inevitable.
Tags: COVID-19, transport, coronavirus, economic recovery, economy, travel
Author: Professor Kate Hunt et al.
Date: March 2021 Abstract: The UK Government’s review of the Gambling Act 2005 seeks to ensure that Britain’s laws for gambling are fit for the digital age.
This briefing paper uses early findings from the Betting and Gambling Covid-19 Impact study to highlight new evidence relevant to the review.
Tags: COVID-19, gambling, betting
Author: Professor Niamh Fitzgerald et al.
Date: February 2021 Abstract: Governments around the world have introduced a range of measures aimed at addressing the risk of COVID-19 transmission in licensed premises.
This briefing provides insights for policymakers from the ‘Managing COVID-19 transmission risks in bars’ research, undertaken in Scotland in Spring/Summer 2020.
As the only study of its kind to date, the findings help to fulfil an urgent need for evidence to inform and underpin evolving COVID-19 measures.
Tags: COVID-19, coronavirus, alcohol, licensed premises
Author: Professor Maggie Cusack et al.
Date: July 2020 Abstract: The transition to a sustainable economy will require policymakers, businesses and other organisations to reconsider how they operate and to adopt alternative, low carbon ways of working.
This briefing paper overviews the Stirling Protocol, a simple framework which enables organisations to balance the demands of economic growth, environmental sustainability, and social inclusion.
Tags: sustainability, net zero, low carbon, environment, prosperity, social inclusion
Date: July 2020 Abstract: Scotland’s Programme for Government 2019-20, Protecting Scotland’s Future, sets out an ambitious target to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045.
Meeting this objective will require policymakers, businesses and other organisations to reconsider how they operate, and make the transition to alternative, sustainable ways of working.
Author: Dr Louise McCabe et al.
Date: May 2020 Abstract: Digital technology can play an important role in connecting individuals and families, and preventing social isolation, particularly in light of the global coronavirus pandemic.
The Technology and Social Connectedness (T&Scon) project explored the potential of technology to support social connectedness for adults living in Scotland, producing a toolkit to provide guidance for individuals and organisations on the use of digital technology in building and maintaining social connections.
This paper summarises the project’s key findings and recommendations for policymakers and practitioners.
Tags: Social isolation, loneliness, technology, social connectedness, coronavirus, social distancing, digital
Author: Professor David Bell et all.
Date: May 2020 Abstract: COVID-19 has caused a significant increase in deaths in Scotland, particularly amongst older individuals.
Professor David Bell and colleagues explore key trends about the impact of coronavirus in Scotland's care homes.
Tags: coronavirus, COVID-19, care homes, care, social care
Author: Dr Michelle Donnelly Date: April 2020 Abstract: This provocation paper explores​ the uniquely Scottish approach to youth justice by reflecting on the legacy of the Kilbrandon Report and​ highlighting inconsistencies towards the treatment of some children who come into contact with​ the Scottish youth justice system.
It concludes by arguing that the identified contradictions could be​ resolved by raising the age of criminal responsibility to the cusp of adulthood.
Tags: children’s Hearings, justice, youth justice, young people
Author: Dr Tessa Parkes et al.
Date: Spring 2020 Abstract: In Scotland, rates of alcohol use and alcohol-related harm are high, with more than 1100 deaths attributable to alcohol in 2018.
People who are experiencing homelessness are at a particularly high risk of alcohol use and associated harms, including experience of extreme social inequalities.
Managed Alcohol Programmes (MAPs) are a harm reduction approach specifically for people experiencing homelessness, providing alcohol in measured, regular doses throughout the day, as well as a range of other supports including health and housing.
This briefing paper summarise a study which aimed to scope the feasibility and acceptability of MAPs in Scotland.
Tags: alcoholism, homelessness, addiction, alcohol-related harm
Author: Sally Haw et al.
Date: January 2020 Abstract: This briefing provides insights into the relationship between tobacco branding, point of sale marketing and e-cigarette uptake among young people in Scotland.
The paper will be of use to policymakers in Scotland, and further afield, when considering the next steps necessary to combat the uptake of smoking and vaping among young people.
Tags: smoking, vaping, e-cigarettes, tobacco
Author : Dr Sandra Engstrom et al.
Date: December 2019 Abstract: There are gaps in understanding what community resilience is and means to those working in communities, academia, practice and policy and how it is currently enacted in Scotland.
Greater understanding of existing experiences can be used to encourage development of community resilience.
By enhancing resilience, those affected by extreme events are better able to cope; communities are given a voice; and risk and vulnerability on local, national and global scales are reduced.
Tags: resilience, extreme events
Author: Dr Colin Moran et al.
Date: February 2019 Abstract: The Daily Mile is a physical activity programme through which primary-aged children run or walk for 15 minutes every day, at a self-selected pace.
The initiative has grown in popularity nationally and internationally, initially driven by anecdotally reported benefits of participation.
This briefing – drawing on three studies led by University of Stirling researchers − has the potential to inform the rollout of the Daily Mile, both in Scotland, and further afield.
Tags: Daily Mile, public health, fitness, schools
Author : Seda Erdem et al.
Date: October 2019 Abstract: Food Standards Scotland ensures that information and advice on food safety and standards, nutrition and labelling is independent, consistent, evidence-based and consumer-focused.
This briefing summarises research undertaken to identify what food safety issues the public prioritise, what types of information individuals feel would influence their food handling behaviour, and where the public claim that they would like to hear more about food safety issues.
Tags: Food safety, consumer preferences, food standards
Author : Lynne Gilmour et al.
Date: October 2019 Abstract: As many as 800,000 lives are lost to suicide annually, in what is arguably a preventable cause of death.
The World Health Organisation’s Mental Health Action Plan 2013-20 sets a target of reducing suicide rates by 10% by 2020.
This briefing paper summarises a global review of national policy documents, considering how they address the treatment and care needs of suicidal children and young people.
In doing so, it highlights best practice for how policy can influence the resourcing of services, and identifies gaps in policy provision for this vulnerable population.
Tags: Suicide, self-harm, mental health
Author : Dr Helen Whincup et al Date: September 2019 Abstract: Though many children in the care system may be ‘legally’ secure, the challenging and often disruptive process of moving into - and within - the care system can leave children feeling insecure and unsettled.
Part of the Permanently Progressing?
Building secure futures for children in Scotland study, this briefing draws upon the voices of children, carers and adoptive parents in Scotland, offering perspectives on kinship care, foster care and adoption.
Tags: care system, kinship care, foster care, adoption
Author : Dr Helen Whincup et al.
Date: September 2019 Abstract: Many children who become looked after away from home will return to their parents, but for some the decision is taken to permanently place them with kinship carers, long-term foster carers or adoptive parents.
Until now little was known about children’s pathways through the looked after system in Scotland, the balance of voluntary and compulsory intervention, and how patterns of placement change over time.
This briefing paper provides insights into the pathways and timescales to permanence for looked after children in Scotland, with implications for policymakers and practitioners.
Date: September 2019 Abstract: This briefing paper summarises key findings on the histories, progress and outcomes for a sample of looked after children in Scotland, three to four years after they became looked after away from home.
It draws on survey data from social workers, caregivers, and the Children Looked After Statistics (CLAS), investigating the association between patterns of maltreatment, placement status, and children’s subsequent wellbeing.
Date: September 2019 Abstract: The Scottish Government’s Looked After Children Data Strategy seeks to provide a robust and reliable body of data to realise the policy ambitions set out in the Scottish Government’s wider strategy for looked after children and young people.
The Data Strategy specifically seeks to enhance knowledge of the outcomes for looked after children through linking administrative datasets to provide a broader evidence base and inform more effective interventions.
This briefing paper summarises key findings from the Permanently Progressing?
Building secure futures for children in Scotland study which tested the feasibility of linking administrative data from the Children Looked After Statistics (CLAS) with data from the Scottish Children’s Reporter Administration (SCRA) and created a linked dataset.
Tags: care system, kinship care, foster care, adoption, data linkage
Date: September 2019 Abstract: This briefing paper provides insights into the processes and pressures that influence decision making for looked after children in Scotland, drawing on findings from Phase One of the Permanently Progressing?
Building secure futures for children in Scotland.
The paper comes as the care system in Scotland is under review, through the Independent Care Review which examines the underpinning legislation, practices, culture and ethos of Scotland’s care system.
Tags: care system, kinship care, foster care, adoption, data linkage, decision making
Author: Professor Isobel Anderson, Ms Trudi Tokarczyk, Ms Catherine O'Shea Date: February 2019 Abstract: River Clyde Homes commissioned the University of Stirling to work with regeneration partners to review progress of the Broomhill Regeneration Project.
This report presents the findings of an initial assessment of the ambitious project for community regeneration in the Broomhill estate, in Greenock, Inverclyde.
Tags: Regeneration, Housing, Community Development
Author: Mr Tom Ovenden Date: May 2019 Abstract: This briefing summarises an innovative modelling approach that provides scientific evidence to inform the complex decisions surrounding the potential reintroduction of Eurasian lynx to Scotland and the conservation management of other species.
Tags: Conservation management, species reintroduction, lynx
Author: Dr Steve Rolfe et al.
Date: May 2019 Abstract: This paper summarises research which demonstrated that tenants’ health and wellbeing is shaped by whether they are able to feel at home in their tenancy, and that this is underpinned by four key foundations.
Tags: Housing, wellbeing, health
Author: Dr Crawford Moodie Date: March 2019 Abstract: This briefing summarises research which concludes that users of standardised tobacco packaging are more likely to notice health warnings and consider the risks of smoking.
Tags: Smoking, tobacco, public health
Author: Dr Elaine Douglas Date: March 2019 Abstract: Acknowledging the increasing recognition of social isolation and loneliness as major public health issues, the Scottish Government’s policy document A Connected Scotland (2018) sets out a strategic approach to tackling loneliness through building stronger social connections.
This briefing paper summarises insights from the HAGIS study into social isolation and loneliness among older people in Scotland.
Tags: Older people, social isolation, loneliness
Author: Professor Jayne Donaldson Date: February 2019 Abstract: The Scottish Ambulance Service (SAS) implemented the New Clinical Response Model (NCRM) for Emergency 999 Calls in November 2016.
The briefing paper summarises a University of Stirling led evaluation, suggesting that the  new model accurately identifies patients in greatest need through emergency 999 calls.
Tags: Health
Author: Dr Liz Forbat Date: December 2018 Abstract: Palliative Care Needs Rounds are triage meetings that have been introduced in residential care for older adults to help identify and prioritise care for those most at risk of unplanned dying, with inadequately controlled symptoms.
The briefing paper sets out implications of a recent studies for the Australian government’s National Palliative Care Strategy.
Tags: Social Care; Health
Author: Dr Liz Forbat Date: October 2018 Abstract: Palliative Care Needs Rounds are triage meetings that have been introduced in residential care for older adults to help identify and prioritise care for those most at risk of unplanned dying, with inadequately controlled symptoms.
The briefing paper sets out implications of a pilot study for the Scottish Government’s  Strategic Framework for Action on Palliative and End of Life Care.
Author: Dr Peter Matthews Date: December 2017 Abstract: This policy briefing paper focuses on the experiences of customers with a non-normative sexual or gender identity.
Tags: Housing, equalities, LGBT+
Author: Dr Peter Matthews Date: December 2017 Abstract: Homelessness among lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT+) people is becoming an increasing concern among LGBT+ organisations and homelessness organisations.
This briefing explores the issue of homelessness among LGBT+ people.
Tags: Housing, equalities, LGBT+, homelessness
Author: Professor Mark Priestley Date: May 2017 Abstract: In a working paper prepared for the Welsh Government, Professor Mark Priestley considers the development of a new curriculum for Wales, presenting and critiquing different approaches to how a national curriculum can be framed.
Tags: Education, curriculum
Author: Professor Mark Priestley Date: May 2016 Abstract: In a briefing paper published by the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment, Professor Mark Priestley considers the role of learning outcomes in curriculum and assessment, including their potential to facilitate better learning and teaching.
Tags: Education, curriculum, learning, learning outcomes

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/animal-research-at-the-university-of-stirling:
At the University of Stirling, we aim to be recognised across the world as a university that addresses the needs of society through innovative, interdisciplinary research.
We are proud that our work is already making a positive impact on people’s health, education and wellbeing.
Demonstrating our integrity is important and is achieved through the core values of honesty, rigour, open communication, care and respect.
A small proportion of the University’s research involves the use of animals – mainly finfish – and we only use animals when no suitable alternative is available.
The University’s Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB) reviews, guides and governs all research involving animals and ensures compliance with the UK Government’s Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (revised 2013) .
The University conducts research with one group of animals (fish) protected under this legislation.
This research, led by our world-leading Institute of Aquaculture , is vital in our quest to tackle major global problems of food security, and social and environmental sustainability.
As a signatory to The Concordat on Openness on Animal Research , the University is committed to informing and enhancing the public’s understanding of animal research.
In line with best practice guidelines, we publish the number of regulated procedures involving animals (fish), conducted by the University, on an annual basis.
Please find more information on our research involving animals via the links below.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/nhs-invasive-or-clinical-research:
The NHS, Invasive or Clinical Research Panel (NICR) considers any health/patient research requiring approval by the NHS Research Ethics Committee and/or taking place with NHS staff, patients or on NHS premises.
It also deals with any health/patient research taking place in health service settings in other countries, and all research involving physically invasive procedures or intrusive interventions on human participants.
Research requiring approval from the NICR panel includes, but is not restricted to:
HRA Learning and Development
IRAS Guidance
NHS Health Research Authority
HRA Guidance on the General Data Protection Regulation
Public Patient Involvement (PPI) Guidance
Human Tissue Authority Codes of Practice
Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000
Mental Capacity Act 2005
Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health research resources
UK Policy framework for health and social care (2018 )
HRA Amending an approval
Request ethical approval from the NHS, Invasive or Clinical Research committee
Approval through NICR should proceed as outlined below:
Staff applying through IRAS for ethical approval of their study should complete and submit an IRAS application form .
Staff do not require NICR approval before they submit through IRAS.
Once submitted staff should also lodge details of their IRAS application through the Ethics Review Manager (ERM) where they will be asked to upload a PDF copy of their IRAS application.
Students should complete an IRAS application form , but not submit it .
Instead, they should save a copy of the IRAS PDF form and submit it through ERM for review by the NICR Panel.
Only once NICR has granted approval for submission through IRAS should the application be submitted.
You must discuss with the appropriate NHD R&D Office as to whether NHS R&D approval ONLY is required, or whether NHS R&D and NHS REC approval is required, and seek guidance from them as to the subsequent application process.
As well as NHS REC approval through the IRAS system applicants are also required to confirm the sponsor for your project and provide proof of indemnity cover as part of your application.
Letters confirming both sponsorship and indemnity will be provided by Research and Innovation Services.
The process for obtaining letters:
Please allow time for this process as both letters will only be issued once the above process has been completed.
In addition, indemnity letters may not be issued immediately as any high risk topics (e.g.
pregnant women or small children) may require confirmation from the University insurer that the project will be covered.
The NICR panel meets regularly throughout the year to consider ethical approval applications.
See their schedule of upcoming meetings and submission deadlines below.
Applications due
Meeting date
10 Jan 2025
07 Feb 2025
07 March 2025
10 April 2025
09 May 2025
28 May 2025
No July meeting
08 Aug 2025
05 Sep 2025
10 Oct 2025
07 Nov 2025
26 Nov 2025
Get in touch with the NHS, Invasive or Clinical Research Committee.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/general-university-ethics-panel:
The General University Ethics Panel (GUEP) considers most research proposals which do not involve animals, require approval by the NHS Research Ethics Committee or involve physically invasive procedures or intrusive interventions on human participants.
The panel helps to ensure that all research carried out by University of Stirling staff and students is subject to the same high ethical standards we apply to animal or clinical research.
Research areas considered by the GUEP might include – but are not limited to – environmental, social or digital research.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught student ethics applications are assessed at Faculty level and approved on a risk based approach.
The risk based approach considers potential harms to the primary research participant, the researcher, environment and other stakeholders, and will assess applications against the University’s hierarchy of risk .
Students who carry out low risk research must complete the low risk ethics approval approval process via ERM .
This must then be signed off by both their dissertation supervisor and either the second supervisor or the module coordinator.
Any application that exceeds minimal risk must further be approved by the Delegated Authority within the Faculty.
Students are responsible for ensuring that ethical approval has been granted before any data collection or fieldwork commences.
Deliberate avoidance or refusal to engage with the ethical review process will be considered to be an act of academic misconduct by the student and handled in accordance with the Academic Misconduct Policy.
Ethics review process for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students .
Submission deadlines
The GUEP panel meets regularly throughout the year to consider ethical approval applications.
Applications due (5pm)
Position
Name
Faculty
Lay Chair
Marilyn Moore
Deputy Chairs
Danny Campbell
Catherine Hennessy
Faculty of Social Sciences
Iain MacRury
Faculty of Arts and Humanities
Emma France
Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport
Darren Green
Louise Hoyle
Grant Gibson
Faculty of Social Sciences
Saihong Li
Faculty of Arts and Humanities
Ben Matthews
Andrew Kirkland
William McConn-
Palfreyman
Emma King
Sossie Kasbarian
Danielle Mitchell
Simon Hope
Faculty of Arts & Humanities
Lisa Evans
Patrick Herbst
David McMillan
Ashley Brown
Gabriela Ochoa
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Kumiko Fukumura
Sarah Greenwood
Georgios Argyropoulos
Paul Hibbard
Brian Johnstone
Ariane Critchley
Georgia Alexandrou
Expert member
Alec Spencer
Lay members
Irene Aylott
Kirsty Watson
Ashley Taylor
Clerk
Lisa Reid
Administrator
Samantha Coe
Get in touch with the General University Ethics Panel.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/ethics-forms:
If you're a member of University staff or a student, you can apply for ethical approval through the University's Ethical Review Manager.
Request approval for research that involves animals in any way.
The AWERB panel meets regularly throughout the year to consider ethical approval applications.
See their schedule of upcoming meetings below.
Applications are reviewed weekly, we aim to have an outcome within 10 working days.
Please submit your application through ERM .
Contact awerb@stir.ac.uk
For health/patient research and other research involving physically invasive procedures or intrusive interventions on human participants.
Approval through NICR should proceed as outlined below.
Students should complete an IRAS application form , but not submit it.
Only once NICR have granted approval for submission through IRAS should the application be submitted.
(5pm)
For all other research which has ethical considerations, for example social, digital, environmental.
Submit via ERM
Institute of Aquaculture
Biological and Environmental Sciences
Computing Science and Maths
Psychology
University of Stirling Business School
Health Sciences
Submit via ERM
Contact guep@stir.ac.uk
Researchers wishing to appeal against the decision of one of the Research Ethics Panels (REP) should, in the first instance, appeal the decision with the Chair of the REP.
The Chair will review the reasoning for the decision and allow the applicant to present further arguments in favour of the proposal.
With agreement from the Deputy Chair the initial decision may be altered.
If the issue cannot be satisfactorily resolved at the REP level, the appellant should appeal in writing to the Committee Manager of the University Research Ethics Committee ( ethics@stir.ac.uk ) within 10 working days of receiving the REP decision.
Details of the UREC appeals process are described in the Research Ethics Review Appeals Procedure .
The University of Stirling is committed to ensuring that all research conducted under our auspices is in accordance with the appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards.
The University’s ethical review process exists to ensure that our research activities continue to fulfil high ethical standards as well as legal obligations and safety standards.
As part of our commitment to ensuring all research carried out at, or through, the University of Stirling meets our ethical standards, all student dissertations - both undergraduate and postgraduate taught - are considered for ethical implications.
The University’s guidelines for research ethics committees draw on the requirements of a number of institutions including; the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Framework for Research Ethics , the provisions of the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (ASPA) , the British Psychological Society , the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) and other institutions to which the University is accountable.
Due cognisance of both University and discipline-specific ethical standards and norms for practice-based research should be taken.
University of Stirling Research Ethics Policy
Research Ethics: Definitions, Principles and Responsibilities
Research Ethics: Definition of Key Terms
Ethical Considerations for internet-mediated research
Ethical Considerations for Action Research
Ethical Considerations for Practitioner Research
Ethical Considerations for Visual Research Methods
Collaborative Research Guidance
Guidance for external researchers
Guidelines for Research Involving Lone Working
Guideline for using participant recruitment services
Apply for Ethics: AWERB, NICR and GUEP
Research Risk Assessment Form
SMS 4th year UG and PGT Risk assessment form
Suggested Investigator Site File Contents
These are template documents and should be adapted to suit your research and intended research participants.
Applicants to the NHS should use the templates provided by the Health Research Authority (HRA) .
Participant information sheet (Staff and PGRs)
Participant Information Sheet (UG and PGTs)
Participant consent form
Electronic consent form
Participant Recruitment Guidelines
Participant Information Sheet Online Survey (Staff and PGRs)
Participant Information Sheet Online Survey (UG and PGTs)
Participant Debriefing Sheet (Staff and PGRs)
Participant Debriefing Sheet (UG and PGTs)
Assent Form for under 16's
Information Sheet for 6-10 year olds
Information Sheet for 11-15 year olds
If using one of the below approved protocols please apply to GUEP (General University Ethics Panel) - unless the research involves NHS patients or other invasive procedures, in which case apply to NICR.
Please make reference to the approved protocol that you will be using within your application for approval.
Protocol-EEG-Complete Guidance
Protocol-Use of Research Tokens for Undergraduate Students
Protocol-BioPAC/Physiological recordings for psychological research
Protocol-fNIRS
If you will be undertaking research within the University's Kindergarten please refer to their established and approved procedures - these are for internal staff and students only.
If using one of the below approved protocols please apply to the University's NICR (NHS, Invasive and Clinical Research) review panel making reference to the approved protocol in your application.
Protocol-Max Strength Test
Protocol-Muscle Biopsy
Protocol-Urine/Blood Sampling
Protocol-Alcohol consumption in Adults Volunteers
Protocol-tDCS
Protocol Adipose Tissue Biopsy
The University's ethics panels welcome the use of protocols where appropriate.
Please put forward protocols for approval to the relevant panel.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/governance:
The University has an obligation to ensure that public funds are used effectively and without wastage, and that our actions are open and transparent.
Key to this is promoting and facilitating best practice in research, with an emphasis on good data management and ensuring the dignity, safety and well-being of researchers and participants, both human and animal.
To meet these obligations, the following structure has been put in place.
The University is responsible for:
Deans of Faculty are responsible for:
Principal Investigators are responsible for ensuring that:
The primary responsibility for ensuring good governance and ethical practice does, however, rest with the individual researcher.
Staff and students can find helpful information about key considerations for their research on our pages.
Research that fails to comply with our principles of good conduct may give rise to a complaint of misconduct.
Although a rare occurrence, research misconduct is handled very seriously by the University, and we're committed to ensuring that any such complaints are investigated with thoroughness and rigour.
Research misconduct includes, but may not be restricted to, the following:
We address allegations of misconduct with the following legal requirements in mind:
Human Rights Act 1998
Freedom of Information Law in Scotland
Data Protection Act 2018
Please refer to the University Procedure for Handling Allegations of Research Misconduct  for further details.
The University believes that everyone has the right to be treated fairly and with dignity and respect.
We are committed to promoting safe research and innovation environments, which are free from sexual exploitation, all forms of abuse, harassment, bullying, and physical violence for all individuals conducting or participating in research and innovation activities in which the University of Stirling is the lead or a participating partner.
Our Code of Practice sets out our commitment in relation to the protection of children and adults at risk of harm where they may come into contact with the University community through research and innovation activities.
The Code of Practice clarifies the responsibilities of the University and its researchers toward participants.
The Code explains the issues to consider and actions that should be taken if anyone becomes aware of exploitation, abuse or harm.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/student-dissertations:
As part of our commitment to ensuring all research carried out at, or through, the University of Stirling meets our ethical standards, all student dissertations – both undergraduate and postgraduate taught – are considered for ethical implications.
Apply for Ethics approval

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/understanding-ethics:
We apply the following definitions of research and ethics:
The University of Stirling applies the Frascati definition of research .
"Research and experimental development comprise creative and systematic work undertaken in order to increase the stock of knowledge - including the knowledge of humankind, culture and society - and to devise new applications of available knowledge."
Ethics are a personal code of conduct based on respect for one's self, others and surroundings and is governed by the principles or assumptions underpinning the way individuals or organisations ought to conduct themselves.
Research ethics involves the application of fundamental ethical principles to research activities which include the design and implementation of research, respect towards society and others, the use of resources and research outputs, scientific misconduct and the regulation of research.
For more in-depth information, please refer to the Research Ethics: Definitions, Principles and Responsibilities .
There are many ethical considerations when undertaking research.
Key amongst these are the protection of human participants, welfare of animal subjects, handling of personal data and respect for intellectual property.
Various codes of conduct and policies exist to guide ethical behaviour and researchers should refer to those most appropriate to their discipline or area of study – see useful links.
Reference should also be made to the University’s Research Ethics Policy and guidance documents detailing Research Ethics: Definitions, Principles and Responsibilities and Definition of key terms .
The University is committed to promoting safe environments free from abuse, harassment, bulling and physical violence for all individuals conducting or participating in our research and innovation activities.
Our Code of Practice clarifies the responsibilities of the University and its researchers towards those that participate in our research and innovation activities.
Read our Safeguarding Code of Practice
With regard to research involving human participants, the University adheres to the six key principles outlined in the ESRC Framework for Research Ethics :
For research involving animals, the University adheres to the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (ASPA) and the principles of replacement, reduction and refinement :
Please refer to the Data Protection pages for our policies and guidance, including information on GDPR and Research.
Intellectual property is the output of intellectual endeavour in literary, artistic, dramatic, industrial, scientific and engineering fields, which is generally capable of being identified and protected.
The protection of IP is provided through certain legal rights many of which are established under legislation, common law and international treaties.
For detailed guidance see the University’s Intellectual Property Policy .
The University is committed to providing a safe and healthy place of work where staff and students are confident that their health, safety and welfare are considered to be of the utmost importance at all times.
For detailed guidance see the University's Health and Safety Policies .
If your research activities involve carrying out fieldwork defined in the USHA and UCEA Guidance on Health and Safety in Fieldwork as:
Any work carried out by staff or students for the purposes of teaching, research or other activities while representing the institution off-site.
This definition will therefore include activities as diverse as attendance at conference and recruitment fairs, or undertaking social science interviews, as well as activities more traditionally associated with the term fieldwork such as survey/collection work carried out by geologists or biologists.
Please complete the Health and Safety processes established within your Faculty before commencing your fieldwork.
For research involving fieldwork a Fieldwork Risk Assessment must be used.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-and-integrity/vacancies-university-of-stirling-research-ethics-panel-chair---awerb:
The University of Stirling is an international university, with a global reputation for high quality teaching and research.
As part of every research project we ensure the highest possible care and ethical standards promoting a culture of best practice.
A small proportion of our research involves the use of animals, mainly finfish, and we only use animals when no suitable alternative is available.
We are currently seeking to recruit a Lay Chair to our Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB).
A core component of the role of AWERB is to conduct an ethical review of studies that involve animals to advise whether they should be supported.
To follow the development and outcome of these studies and advise on the application of the 3Rs (Reduction, Refinement and Replacement).
Additionally, the AWERB advises on matters related to the welfare of animals, their accommodation, care and use at the University.
The AWERB Chair will:
The University would wish to appoint individuals with experience in at least two of the following areas:
The University of Stirling recognises that a diverse workforce benefits and enriches the work, learning and research experiences of the entire campus and greater community.
We are committed to removing barriers and welcome applications from those who would contribute to further diversification of our community and ensure that equality, diversity and inclusion is woven into the substance of the role.
We strongly encourage expressions of interest from people from diverse backgrounds including gender, identity, race, age, class, and ethnicity.
Lay positions on University Research Ethics Panels are unremunerated, although expenses related to University business will be reimbursed.
The appointments will be for three-years in the first instance.
Our Panels meet regularly throughout the year.
For informal enquiries, please contact: Ms Rachel Beaton ethics@stir.ac.uk
Expressions of interest including a CV and covering letter should be submitted to ethics@stir.ac.uk by midnight on Sunday 7 September 2025.
Candidates will be asked to attend the campus for a short conversation with University management.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-culture/professor-rachel-norman:
If good collegial practice is recognised, shared and rewarded, universities will be more enjoyable places to work, says Professor Rachel Norman
Read the original article in Times Higher Education
The results of the Research Excellence Framework tell UK universities where they currently stand on the traditional scale of research prowess.
But as we digest the outcomes, in both triumph and tribulation, there are rumblings that it may be time to review what that scale looks like.
Research England’s Future Research Assessment Programme, which will evaluate REF 2021 and look beyond it, includes the questions: “How can the assessment system contribute to a positive research culture that enables talented, diverse people and teams to thrive?” and “How can the system better recognise diversity in approaches to research, rewarding a broad range of outputs and impacts, within and across disciplines?”.
Both the UK and Scottish governments recently reviewed research in the context of sustainable Covid recovery, and they recognised the importance of a positive research culture.
But what is a positive research culture?
Do we have it?
How do we measure it?
And how do we encourage it?
For the past two years, we at the University of Stirling have held annual research culture awards in seven categories, including “outstanding research leader”, “outstanding collaborator” and “outstanding early career researcher”; the word “outstanding” replaced “best” this year because it is less competitive.
Self-nomination is not allowed, but we share the texts of their nominations with nominees, and we celebrate everyone at the awards ceremony, identifying some “highly commended” nominations.
The awards give us an interesting insight into what those within the research community value.
This has allowed us to identify several elements of good research culture.
Not surprisingly, activities and actions that fostered inclusion, teamwork and community were particularly important this year; examples mentioned include away days, peer review groups for papers, regular inclusive meetings, early career researcher events of various types – and cake!
Attitude was also singled out.
Willingness to share expertise, knowledge and networks is valued, but so are more general characteristics, such as kindness, good humour and the ability to make time to see people (despite busy diaries).
Formal and informal mentoring is universally appreciated, and even many of the early career researchers nominated were recognised for their skills in this area.
Among the best mentor nominations, the ability to listen came up several times.
Overall, a good local research culture is seen to derive from good role models, as well as a strong sense of community and teamwork.
Of course, the issue with all these factors is that they can be time-consuming to sustain, but we have to acknowledge that if we want to create a good research culture then we need to make sure staff have the time to contribute to it.
The trick will be to replicate examples of good research culture even where it is not happening naturally or instinctively.
Critically, institutions have to determine how to recognise (in its most literal sense) those activities or actions that contribute to a positive research culture and then share, encourage and reward them.
However, these are not straightforward things to measure.
The emergence of the narrative CV should help, by allowing people to identify their contributions to teams.
Its encouragement for research assessment to look beyond standard bibliographic outputs will also allow recognition of informal organisation of activities, such as research group meetings or reading groups.
Another approach would be to be specific about what is expected of senior staff in terms of being research enablers and supporting more junior colleagues.
For example, some universities now require applicants for professorial status to describe how they have mentored or championed people.
It is brilliant that this is now recognised as a valued activity, but it would also be nice to ensure the quality of that mentoring, and to recognise that it is not necessarily the same thing as supervision.
We could add metrics on how many mock interviews have been done with ECRs, for instance, or how much internal peer reviewing has been done of grants/papers on which the professorial applicant is not a co-author or co-investigator.
More challenging – because it is so dependent on subject or seniority – would be to look at diversity of collaborations and research groups, where the concept of diversity includes career stage and discipline, as well as protected characteristics.
As with any metrics, these indicators must be used responsibly, so as to not inadvertently introduce bias.
Moreover, there is always the risk that people will simply aim to tick the box rather than embrace the purpose of the metric.
To tackle this, there should be validation – such as 360-degree feedback – from other members of the team, who can attest to the positive research culture being created (or otherwise).
As long as the overall outcome is that good practice is recognised, shared and rewarded, I am convinced that all our research environments will be more enjoyable to work in.
And this, in turn, will make us all more creative and successful researchers.
Professor Rachel Norman is institutional dean of research engagement and performance at the University of Stirling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/research/research-culture/research-culture-champions-network:
From the Research Culture Awards initiative, first introduced in May 2020 by Professor Rachel Norman, Dean for Research Engagement and Performance, the Research Culture Champions Network has been established to share the good practice that is highlighted in the Research Culture Awards and look at ways to take on board the ideas that are appropriate for our own research teams.
The Research Culture Awards are part of the annual Festival of Research to recognise people and groups who actively contribute towards a positive research environment at the University of Stirling.
Colleagues are nominated anonymously for outstanding contributions across various categories each year (research leadership, collaborator, support from professional services, mentor, early career researcher, activity dedicated to enhancing research culture and lastly research activity dedicated to equality, diversity and inclusion).
Importantly, nominees receive feedback from their nominations and are also invited to an awards ceremony to collectively celebrate endeavours.
Cognisant of the fact that we are not always good at saying thank you, especially for things that are difficult to measure, the Research Awards aims to encourage collaborative and supportive behaviour by celebrating staff members who demonstrate good role modelling across the career spectrum; increase the visibility of efforts and place value in often-hidden contribution; and to create a shared understanding of what we value at Stirling.
These champions are role models and represent different aspects of our research culture, some are Professors who lead large research groups, some are working at Faculty or divisional level on research culture, some work closely with PGRs, and some are earlier in their career and therefore our Profs of the future.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/our-reputation/facts-and-figures:
At the University of Stirling, being the difference is in our DNA.
That's why we're regularly recognised across the globe for research excellence in teaching, research and offering a world-class student experience.
17,500+ students globally
11,000+ undergraduate students
6,000+ postgraduate students
1,800 staff
140+ nationalities represented on campus
More than 30% of our students are international
The University of Stirling ranked overall 51st in the UK in The Complete University Guide 2026
The University of Stirling ranked overall 53rd in the UK in The Complete University Guide 2025
Source: The Complete University Guide
The University of Stirling ranked in the top 100 in the UK in The Guardian University Guide 2025.
Source: Guardian University Guide 2025
The University of Stirling is rated 5 stars overall, and in each of the following areas:
The University of Stirling ranked in the top global universities in the QS World University Rankings 2025.
Source: QS Top Universities
The University of Stirling ranked in the top 500 global universities in the QS World University Rankings 2024.
Sources:
The University of Stirling ranked 63rd overall in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
Source: Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings by Subject 2025
See the full Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings by subject.
University of Stirling was shortlisted as University of the Year in 2024.
Source: Times Higher Education 2024 shortlist
Sports Science: top 10 in the UK.
Source: fcbusiness
International student experience
Teaching
Learning facilities
Campus environment
Sport facilities at Scotland's University for sporting excellence
Clubs and societies
Source: The International Student Barometer , Wave 2, 2024
Rankings are based on institutions included in the Guardian University Guide 2024.
Source: National Student Survey 2024
Rankings are based on institutions included in the Guardian University Guide 2023.
Source: National Student Survey 2023
*Out of all participating PTES institutions
Source: Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2022
Source: Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey 2018
Graduate Outcomes is the biggest UK annual social survey and captures the perspectives and current status of recent graduates.
These results are compiled from students who graduated in 2020-21.
Faculty of Arts and Humanities: 94.9%
Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport: 99.0%
Faculty of Natural Sciences: 94.4%
Faculty of Social Sciences: 97.1%
University of Stirling Business School: 94.0%
Overall: 96.0%
THE Impact Rankings use the SDGs to assess universities efforts to address global challenges.
The University of Stirling is ranked among the top 200 institutions in the world for its contribution to meeting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We are in the Top 100 in the world for SDGs in  Zero Hunger, Reduced Inequalities, Life Under Water and Life On Land.
Find out more about our work on the THE Impact Rankings.
We are ranked 177th worldwide and 77th for Europe for sustainability by the QS World Sustainability Rankings .
Find out more about our work in sustainability .
The Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) is the independent body entrusted with monitoring and advising on standards and quality in UK higher education.
Find out more about how our teaching quality is assessed.
In 2024 we were awarded an institutional Athena Swan Silver Award, recognising our commitment to advancing gender equality across the university.
This is a continuation of our work in 2017 when we were awarded the institutional Athena Swan Bronze Award.
The Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework is the national credit transfer system for all levels of qualifications in Scotland.
Find out more about the credit rating system for our qualifications.
5 faculties
conducting world-leading research
Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence
100,000+ alumni
in 180 countries

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business/start-up-entrepreneur-support:
The University of Stirling’s Enterprise Programme enables students, staff, recent alumni, and eligible community founders to realise their entrepreneurial potential, gain skills, drive innovation, develop commercial solutions, and make a positive difference through business creation.
Our programme supports individuals to translate learning, teaching, and research outcomes into real world impact through our comprehensive services and vibrant founder community.
You can access a range of training, events, services, networking, and funding opportunities to develop entrepreneurial skills, test ideas, create and grow new business ventures, and commercialise research.
Whether you’re just starting your entrepreneurial journey or looking to get your business off the ground, the Enterprise Programme is here to support.
Through its delivery of a range of transformational programmes within the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, the University of Stirling’s Enterprise Team works closely with colleagues and stakeholders to support business start-up activity within the region.
The first of these programmes in delivery is Scotland’s International Environment Centre (SIEC).
Through innovation and partnership, SIEC will deliver transformational change in sustainable business practice, positioning the protection and enhancement of our natural resources as an enabler of economic prosperity, wellbeing, and a just transition to a net zero future.
We inspire and support entrepreneurial skill-building, idea generation, and business model creation.
We'll support you to develop your idea and business model.
Launch and grow your business as part of our community of incubated and alumni founders.
Students, staff, graduates and community founders share their stories and how the Enterprise Programme helped them.
Find out more about our exciting events open to members of the public each year.
Get involved and support the next generation of start-up businesses and innovators.
The Enterprise Programme's provision is accredited by the Small Business Charter which recognises excellence in small business support, student entrepreneurship and local engagement.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business/training-and-skills-development:
Being in business is one thing, thriving is another.
The University of Stirling offers a range of training and development opportunities to upskill staff and grow your business.
We are one of a select number of Scottish partners delivering the UK Government’s Help to Grow: Management Course.
The course is designed for SME senior managers seeking to boost their business’s performance, resilience and long-term growth.
The cost to attend is 90% funded by the UK Government (company contribution of £750).
The course’s 12 modules are undertaken alongside full-time work – through a combination of online sessions, face-to-face learning, peer support and mentoring.
By the end of the course, you will develop a business growth plan specific to your SME.
We offer a practical, work-based learning experience to help staff develop a career as a data scientist or analyst.
The course gives students an in-depth awareness and appreciation of the underlying computing and mathematical principles empowering data science technologies, and how this may enable a business to thrive in a data-driven world.
Tuition is 100% funded, so there is no cost to the student or employer.
Entry requirements to the programme are flexible.
However, a background or interest in managing data is recommended.
If you’d like to talk to us about whether a Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science is right for your staff, please get in touch with our team at business@stir.ac.uk .
Continuous Professional Development is essential to keep up with best practice and new legislation.
We offer a wide range of accredited programmes for employers and professional staff.
Work with us to ensure your business is equipped to meet the evolving needs of your sector and remains compliant.
Sign up for a scheduled short course or speak to us about your bespoke training requirements.
We offer dedicated business support through our well-established Enterprise Programme, an innovation hub for business growth and acceleration.
The programme is delivered in three streams.
Ideal for when you are just starting up.
We will support idea generation, development of your business model and grow your entrepreneurial skills.
Supports emerging founders from the Develop Activity Stream, to test and develop viable business models in preparation for launch.
Supports emerging founders to launch and grow new start businesses.
We offer start-up incubation and growth-oriented support.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business/funding-and-grants:
The University of Stirling offers a range of grants and funding to help you grow your business.
Get the capital you need to support growth and innovation and take your business to the next level.
If you have an idea but need the expertise to develop it, then we can help with a Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
Fully funded earn-as-you-learn opportunities in practical, work-based learning for those who aspire to be a data scientist or analyst.
90% funded course designed for SME senior managers seeking to boost their business’s performance, resilience and long-term growth.
Increase the effectiveness of your organisation and improve results through better management processes and strategic change.
Business support to power up your innovative ideas with funding support from Innovate UK.
There are many other ways to secure funding for your business.
Check out findbusinesssupport.scot.gov , which is a central resource with information about funding and assistance from Scottish agencies.
Alloa First is a business-led initiative where businesses work together with the sole objective of collectively investing in the town centre with the aim of creating a brighter future for the business environment.
Alloa First
These funding guides help you decide whether you need business funding, where to find it, how much you might need, and what it could cost you to repay.
Business Gateway Funding and Finance Guidance
The Business Improvement District (BID) covering 10 business parks throughout Clackmannanshire.
The Clacksfirst BID works collectively with local partners to create a safer, cleaner and more attractive business working and trading environment.
Clacksfirst Ltd
Clackmannanshire and Stirling Environment Trust will consider applications across all types of projects included in the SLCF.
May include land reclamation, community recycling, public amenities and parks, biodiversity and historic buildings.
Clackmannanshire and Stirling Environment Trust
Creative Scotland's Open Fund for Individuals is one of Creative Scotland’s key funding programmes, supporting the wide range of activities by creative practitioners in Scotland.
You can apply for between £500 and £100,000 for activities lasting up to 24 months.
Creative Scotland: Open Fund for Individuals
Federation of Small Businesses Scotland (FSB) is the UK's largest campaigning pressure group promoting and protecting the interests of the self-employed and owners of small businesses.
FSB provide a wide range of business services to members.
Federation of Small Businesses Scotland
Falkirk Council grants and funding are available for businesses in the council area.
Falkirk Council grants and funding
Offers funding and support across all academic disciplines and industrial areas.
They help businesses grow by developing and commercialising new products, processes, and services, supported by an outstanding innovation ecosystem that is agile, inclusive, and easy to navigate.
Innovate UK - UKRI funding
A range of funds are available for community-led activity, young people, people facing challenging circumstances and urban and rural communities.
National Lottery Funding Programmes
A range of funding programmes for projects that connect people and communities to the national, regional and local heritage of the UK.
National Lottery Heritage Fund
Supports manufacturers to help them secure a range of funding opportunities in order to solve problems and develop solutions.
The National Manufacturing Institute Scotland
Scottish Enterprise can help your business navigate the funding landscape in Scotland.
It can offer support to help your business find and access the right funding, and in some cases offer its own funding.
Scottish Enterprise funding and grants
The Scottish Enterprise Regional Selective Assistance grant helps projects that create or protect jobs in areas of Scotland.
The level of grant offered depends on the location of your project and the size of your business.
SLCF is a tax credit scheme linked to Scottish Landfill Tax that encourages landfill site operators to provide contributions to Approved Bodies, who can then pass the funds onto community and environmental projects.
Scottish Landfill Communities Fund
Funding Scotland is a service provided by the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations to provide access to funding opportunities in Scotland.
It is free to use, providing search of over 1,300 funding opportunities including grants, loans, prizes and other support.
SCVO Funding Scotland
Grant support is offered to a variety of voluntary organisations every year.
This is intended to assist local initiatives, encourage environmental improvement and promote community activities.
Stirling Council Voluntary Organisations Grants and Funding
Zero Waste Scotland is committed to supporting businesses to implement circular innovations and recognises the transformational impact that grant support can have as projects move towards commercialisation.
Zero Waste Scotland Circular Economy Accelerator and funding
Provides funding to develop innovative solutions for renewable hydrogen production, storage and distribution, as well as the development of test and demonstration facilities in Scotland.
Emerging Energy Technologies Fund - The Hydrogen Innovation Scheme
£17.6 million available for projects that can develop green heat solutions or have ideas to boost manufacturing and R&D in this area.
The Green Heat Innovation Support Programme (GHISP) provides support through large R&D and capital grant funding, feasibility study support, and CAN DO Innovation Challenge funding.
Green Heat Innovation Support Programme
This Scottish Government fund will support projects that have the potential to create low carbon heat solutions for buildings.
Its support will focus on projects that are in development in order to create a pipeline for future deployment and viable business cases that support the energy sector and supply chain.
Heat in Buildings Development Funding
Scottish Government funding for businesses in Scotland to help pay for energy efficiency projects.
Loans up to £100k are available to help you pay for energy and carbon-saving upgrades in your business.
You could also receive a cashback grant of up to £30k.
SME Loan Scheme
The Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBioIC)'s Feasibility projects provide members with the opportunity to tap into the expertise of Scotland’s academics to assist with a biotech-focused proof of concept study to support a future funding application for a larger scale research work programme.
IBioIC Feasibility Funding
The Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBioIC) offers funding for collaborative biotechnology projects that link Scottish academics and industry.
The funding covers access to university facilities on a fee-for-service basis at an academic rate.
IBioIC Facilities Access Fund
Offer funding and support across all academic disciplines and industrial areas from the medical and biological sciences to astronomy, physics, chemistry and engineering, social sciences, economics, environmental sciences, and the arts and humanities.
UKRI - UK Research and innovation funding finder for business and academia
This is a research and development (R&D) grant for small and medium-sized businesses that aims to support high risk, highly ambitious projects.
It covers conducting feasibility studies to show how ideas could work in the real world and supports activities that have a commercial endpoint.
SMART:SCOTLAND Grant

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/business/innovation-research-and-development:
You want your business to succeed and we are here to support you.
Our Business Engagement and Development team will help you access the funding, research and knowledge at Stirling.
We can help you take your business and your ideas to the next level.
Business consultancy
Consult with our world-class researchers for impartial advice or to access the latest research findings.
Business research and development
We can provide contract research or services for long-term research and development projects.
Business innovation facilities
Our world-class research is enabled by state-of-the-art facilities, which businesses can access.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Get expert help and up to 75% funding for developing new products, improving your business or training staff.
Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Partner with us for better management practices and strategic change.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/employers:
The Work Based Learning and Employer Engagement team works at the intersection of academia and industry, building strong partnerships that create valuable opportunities for students and employers alike.
We collaborate with organisations across sectors to develop work-based learning, internships, placements, and other experiential learning opportunities that enhance students’ employability and meet workforce needs.
We’re here to help you recruit our students and graduates, raise your profile and act as a link between your organisation and the University.
The University of Stirling is a world recognised higher education institution, and we work with local, national and international organisations.
Our services offer direct access to our talented students and graduates.
Recruit our students
Offer graduate vacancies, paid internships, or part-time work.
Student placements and projects
Work with our students on a one-off consultancy project or placement.
Raise your profile
Increase your visibility by attending our careers fair, delivering a presentation, becoming a mentor and more.
Stirling Cares
Help address challenges faced by care experienced students, estranged students and student carers.
"Student collaborations bring fresh ideas, energy, and innovation.
Student engagement boosts academic success, enhances workforce readiness, and fosters personal growth.
It’s a win-win."
Blair Cremin – Head of Foundation, Stenhousemuir FC Community Foundation
"We are lucky to have had really great placement students from Stirling.
It gives us a solid idea as to what things we need to focus on as an organisation and what things we need to upskill."
Conor French – Scottish Water
Student Skills and Employability (SSE) have won the ‘Sustainability in Talent and Education’ category at the 2025 Target Jobs Awards.
Find out how we embed sustainability in career development and build meaningful partnerships with employers.
See staff profiles for members of the Work Based Learning and Employer Engagement team and find out more about how they can support collaboration between employers and students.
To stay up to date with events and programmes designed to support engagement and collaboration with our students, connect with us on LinkedIn.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/employers/recruiting-our-students:
You can advertise to thousands of our students and graduates completely free of charge.
Benefit from our highly motivated students who understand the importance of work experience for their CV.
Use our online vacancy service to advertise your graduate vacancies, part-time or seasonal jobs, and paid internship and volunteering opportunities.
You can advertise graduate roles, part-time and temporary positions, work experience opportunities, volunteering roles (registered charities) or paid internships.
Register or log in with TARGETconnect to advertise your vacancies.
Agencies advertising on behalf of a client must disclose the client's name.
We do not advertise volunteering opportunities unless they are for charitable organisations.
Read our Vacancy Handling Policy for more information on the type of vacancies you can promote.
Several Scottish universities enable employers either to display their vacancy solely at the University to which they are posting OR to post to all the Scottish Universities in this grouping of TargetConnectLink Scotland universities, for a small charge.
The University of Stirling’s Careers Service and Work Based Learning Team frequently acts as a bridge between students, graduates, and third-party organisations.
We take our responsibility to social and climate justice seriously, striving to be selective about the organisations we engage with.
Read our Ethical Careers Policy for more information.
If you believe that there has been any breach of this policy, please send full details to employers@stir.ac.uk to allow for this to be fully investigated.
A response will be issued within 5 working days.
Students Skills and Employability and the Careers Service have signed the Sustainable Recruitment Alliance Pledge - becoming the first university in Scotland to do so.
We are working to put sustainability at the heart of everything we do- from the promotion of vacancies to careers events and we aim to work with organisations who share the same sustainability values.
To find out more please view our Sustainability Guidance for Employers .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/faculties/stirling-business-school/engaging-with-business:
At the University of Stirling Business School, we are proud of our partnerships with organisations of all sizes, from local start-ups to multinational organisations and everything in between.
Whether you are looking to benefit from our expert consultancy to help you deliver sustainable growth, develop and upskill your workforce or attract new talent, we are here to support you.
We are accredited by the Small Business Charter in recognition of our expertise in supporting small businesses, student entrepreneurship and engagement in the local economy.
We aim to be an anchor in the Forth Valley entrepreneurial ecosystem, connecting local SMEs with the University, local institutions, and each other.
We can help you boost your business's performance, resilience and long-term growth.
Our staff have the expertise and knowledge that can help your business.
We can work with you in an advisory capacity, through bespoke contract research or longer-term research and development projects.
Contact us on manorg@stir.ac.uk .
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme helps businesses in the UK to innovate and grow through business and academic partnerships.
If you have an idea but need help to develop it, a KTP may be the perfect solution.
Find out more about partnering with us.
Our talented students can help you and your business.
If you have any questions about engaging with Stirling students for placements or projects, please contact employers@stir.ac.uk .
Business and research
We believe that research can, and should, make a difference.
We bring together experts from across the University, the professional world, the non-profit sector and a range of partner institutions to achieve significant impacts for businesses and wider society.
Are you interested in supporting the next generation of business leaders?
Looking to expand your corporate social responsibility activities?
We are always open to exploring opportunities for partners to enhance the learning experience for our students.
We are proud supporters of the VIBES Awards and the HEAT Awards, recognising and supporting pioneering and sustainable business.
We are proud sponsors of the annual Vision in Business for the Environment of Scotland (VIBES) Awards.
We sponsor the SME Management category at the Awards, recognising SMEs with the strategic vision and management systems that enable them to continuously improve their contribution to Scotland’s sustainable development.
The School supports the annual HEAT awards (Highlighting Entrepreneurship All Together), a Dragons’ Den style competition where Business School staff take on the role of one of the dragons, as well as provide follow-on support to the winners.
The event is organised by Forth Valley area Business Gateways.
“A positive impact for Keep Scotland Beautiful has been the research and information we received through the final reports and presentations have informed our work and planning, particularly our data management strategy and our approach to research through our campaigning activity; we continue to consider through our annual planning where projects could potentially be linked to future projects/internships/placements in partnership with the University.”
Catherine Gee, Operations Director, Keep Scotland Beautiful

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-are-doing:
As place of learning and research, we are at the forefront of efforts to create a cleaner, greener, and fairer world.
You’ll find our researchers shaping policy and practice in communities locally and globally while, as an institution, we are committed to achieving net zero by 2040.
Scotland’s International Environment Centre brings together experts, partner organisations and stakeholders to advance practical solutions to climate change and support a just transition to net zero.
We are committed to the principles set out in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (1992) and we are a signatory to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Accord.
We are a key signatory to the ‘Forth Valley for Net Zero’ campaign which commits Stirling to sharing best practice with our strategic partners and to help the region achieve net zero status by 2040.
We have signed an innovative Sustainable Growth Agreement with the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA).
We have joined forces with North Ayrshire Council to grow the ‘blue economy’ in the west of Scotland.
We are a signatory to the Race to Zero for Universities and Colleges campaign.
Public Bodies Climate Change Duties reports
These reports comply with the statutory duty placed on public bodies in Scotland to report activity on sustainability, climate change adaptation and carbon reduction.
Students' Union quarterly activity reports
The Students' Union is continuously looking at ways to improve sustainability on campus, promote biodiverse spaces and create learning opportunities.
We're educating the next generation of environmentalists with a passion for protecting and preserving the environment.
Our environmental change research develops socially-inclusive practices for environmental protection, conservation, economic growth and social wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-you-can-do:
Use less plastic.
Turn off the lights.
Recycle your rubbish.
You already know this.
So, instead of why, we will tell you how staff and students can play their part.
From using our recycling facilities to getting involved in clubs, taking small steps together can make a big difference.
Living a more sustainable lifestyle doesn't have to be an expensive lifestyle choice - it can save you money.
The Green and Blue Space is a thriving sustainability hub on campus.
The hub coordinates projects on recycling, zero waste and gardening.
It also organises film nights and workshops.
The hub is run by student volunteers with support from lead students and union staff so volunteers are not thrown into the deep end.
And the best part?
It’s achieving real change on campus.
Join the Green and Blue Space team .
Students can get involved with a number of clubs and societies.
From environment to global justice, find your club  and meet new people, develop new interests, and even boost your CV.
Join a society
Staff and students are welcome to join our weekly community gardening sessions.
Cultivate friendships, learn new skills and be part of our sustainable community.
All levels of experience welcome and no need to sign up, just pop in and get gardening!
The Green Champions Group is a working group formed of academics, staff and the Students Union.
Its purpose is take forward the University’s sustainability objectives through actions and initiatives across the whole of the organisation.
If you would like to get involved and come along to our meetings, please email us on safetyandenvironment@stir.ac.uk .
The Green Leaf is an optional add on to any of the three undergraduate and postgraduate My Stirling Award Levels.
We have worked with departments throughout the University and the Students' Union to comprise a list of suggested activities and ways to make your current activities more sustainable.
If you have any additional questions about adding the Green Leaf to your award or if your activity qualifies please email skillsaward@stir.ac.uk .
Transition Stirling is an environmental charity, based in Stirling.
It aims to provide a positive response to the effects of climate change, through advancing citizenship, raising awareness and encouraging action.
Their current projects include a food project, a tool library, events to share skills and an IT project that refurbishes and re-homes unused phones, tablets and laptops.
The Wood Reuse project was established to give volunteers the opportunity to learn skills to make new items with waste wood.
Stirling Reuse Hub is focusing on providing sustainable and refurbished products to the people of Stirling.
Our passionate team work to
Who doesn’t love trees?
It’s never been more important to plant trees for the future.
You can get involved with Treelink Stirling or The Conservation Volunteers .
Both organisations are active around the Stirling area, planting trees with volunteers.
On the Verge work community groups in and around Stirling and Clackmannanshire to establish and develop areas of native wildflowers.
The university’s Estates and Campus team along with students and the community are developing a wildflower meadow on campus.
You can also find out more about On the Verge on Facebook .
If you would like to get involved you can contact them enquiries@ontheverge.co.uk .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/sustainability/staff-and-groups:
Information on the staff and staff groups working on our sustainability agenda.
The Corporate Sustainability Steering Group (CSSG) meets four times a year and is chaired by our Senior Deputy Principal (Operational Strategy and External Affairs).
The Senior Deputy Principal, Professor Malcolm MacLeod , is responsible for the strategic direction of sustainability at the University of Stirling.
The purpose of CSSG is to provide leadership and oversight for sustainability.
It supports the development of sustainability targets and goals and the embedding of environmental values into all parts of University activity and operations.
Some of the key areas that CSSG considers include:
You can contact the CSSG on planning@stir.ac.uk if you want information or want to give feedback on the strategic direction of sustainability by the university.
Senior Deputy Principal (Operational Strategy and External Affairs)
Head of Safety, Environment, Security and Continuity
Head of Procurement
Director of Estates and Campus Services
Environmental Adviser
Head of Policy and Planning
Sustainability Development Co-ordinator (Students' Union)
Sustainability Officer (Students’ Union)
Students’ Union President
Students’ Union Vice President (Communities)
Lecturer, Faculty of Natural Sciences (Learning, Teaching and Research Rep)
Professor, Faculty of Arts and Humanities (Trade Union Rep)
Planning Support Officer
The Green Champions Group is a working group formed of academics, key directorate staff and the Students Union.
The role of the group is to take forward the University’s sustainability objectives through actions and initiatives across the whole of the organisation.
It will also form a link between the University’s Corporate Sustainability Steering Group, staff, and students for the exchange of information, ideas and feedback.
If you have any ideas or feedback, or would like to get involved and come along to our meetings, please contact us on safetyandenvironment@stir.ac.uk .
The Embedding Sustainability in Learning, Teaching and Research working group is co-chaired by academics and representatives from the Students’ Union and includes academics from across faculties and student faculty officers.
The working group facilitates the sharing of ideas and best practice on embedding sustainability in learning and teaching including the use of UN SDG’s and Education for Sustainability.
New initiatives on embedding sustainability in research for staff and students, including reducing single use plastics and energy use, are overseen by this working group.
Ideas from the working group are communicated to the Corporate Sustainability Steering Group, in events during the Festival of Learning and Teaching and online faculty discussion forums.
Amy Gove-Kaney is the Environmental Advisor and leads on sustainability, behavioural change and environmental and carbon regulatory compliance.
You can contact Amy on amy.gove-kaney@stir.ac.uk .
Alison Morrison is the Head of Safety, Environment and Continuity and can be contacted on alison.morrison@stir.ac.uk .
You can also contact the Safety, Environment and Continuity team on our general details.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/sustainability/sustainability-events:
We run a wide range of events, activities and discussion panels on sustainability.
Green Week takes place every year and is an interactive week dedicated to sustainability, active travel, biodiversity and waste reduction.
The event encourages staff, students and our local community to adopt a greener lifestyle.
Our annual Active Travel Week looks at walking, wheeling and cycling.
Events and activities explore how active travel can help improve fitness, sustainability and mental health.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/environmental-data-services:
At the University of Stirling we measure, monitor, capture, analyse, and report on environmental data—providing powerful insights to enhance environmental security worldwide.
We provide a global service with expertise in Earth Observation.
We make use of international satellites to measure, monitor and report on a range of land, air and water environmental parameters.
Information is captured in a comprehensive data resource library and supplemented with precise near real-time data.
We have expertise in using drones, and capturing ground-truth data using sensor arrays in the field.
Our team of skilled scientists and technicians uses cutting-edge tools like AI, machine learning, and advanced algorithms to transform raw data into actionable insights.
The result?
Intelligent solutions that empower decision-making, safeguard assets, and enhance citizen wellbeing.
Let us help you bring your environmental challenges into sharper focus.
Mitigating water quality and flood risks using satellite technology.
Measuring and monitoring performance of woodland and peatland.
Monitoring indoor and outdoor air quality to reduce pollution.
We are actively involved in several water-related projects where our earth observation skills come to the fore.
We are committed to advancing the field of Earth observation, particularly in monitoring and managing aquatic ecosystems both within the UK and internationally.
GloboLakes is a pioneering project that analyses satellite data spanning over 20 years to monitor more than 1,000 large lakes worldwide.
The project aims to understand how lakes respond to environmental changes by assessing factors such as surface water temperature, concentrations of coloured dissolved organic matter, suspended solids, and phytoplankton abundance.
The University of Stirling leads GloboLakes, bringing together a consortium of scientists with expertise in remote sensing, freshwater ecology, and environmental statistics.
The University's Earth and Planetary Observation Research Group has been instrumental in developing algorithms and processing satellite data to retrieve biogeochemical and physical parameters of lakes.
The UKLO is a prototype operational service that provides information on water quality for over 900 UK water bodies using satellite observations.
It utilises data from the European Space Agency’s Copernicus Sentinel-2 satellites to produce weekly estimates of phytoplankton chlorophyll-a concentrations at a 20-meter resolution.
Our researchers at the University of Stirling have developed the innovative processing chain that underpins UKLO.
This includes advanced atmospheric correction techniques and dynamic algorithms tailored to the optical characteristics of individual lakes, significantly enhancing the accuracy of chlorophyll-a estimations.
DANUBIUS-RI is a pan-European research infrastructure dedicated to studying river-sea systems.
It integrates various scientific disciplines to address challenges related to environmental change, sustainable resource management, and ecosystem services in these transitional environments.
The University of Stirling's Earth and Planetary Observation Research Group contributes to the Observation Node of DANUBIUS-RI.
Their work involves developing global observatories from space and integrating Earth observation data to enhance the understanding and management of river-sea systems.
CERTO aims to harmonise and enhance optical water quality products across various aquatic environments, including oceans, coastal areas, estuaries, and lakes.
The project seeks to develop standardized methodologies and tools to monitor complex transitional waters, addressing gaps in current Copernicus services.
The University of Stirling contributes to CERTO by bringing together key in-situ datasets and testing methods across different water bodies.
Our expertise in Earth observation and water quality monitoring supports the development of harmonised methodologies for optical water quality services.
Let’s discuss how we can support your organisation.
This work falls under the remit of Scotland’s International Environment Centre and is funded by the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal.
It is a £90.2m investment from the UK Government and Scottish Government in innovation and infrastructure that will drive inclusive economic growth throughout the region.
Regional partners, including Clackmannanshire Council, Stirling Council, and the University of Stirling, will invest up to £123.8m, resulting in a deal worth more than £214m, to be delivered over the next 10 to 15 years.
Our case studies show how technology and science can work together to build a more sustainable future.
The scale and scope of the work being undertaken by the University of Stirling under the banner of Scotland’s International Environment Centre, cannot be achieved by working independently.
We rely on fellow researchers, partners and stakeholders to help turn ambitious plans into reality.
How our work aligns with UN Sustainable Development Goals .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/hydro-nation:
Bringing Scotland’s water sector together to drive us to net zero and beyond.
The Scotland Hydro Nation Chair, hosted by the University of Stirling, is leading the collaboration needed to deliver sustainable water management in Scotland.
We are already experiencing the effects of climate change through water.
Even in Scotland, drought is becoming more frequent, as are periods of intense rainfall, leading to flooding.
Yet, water also holds the solutions we need to help us adapt to climate change.
How we manage water can bolster our resilience to extreme events, restore biodiversity and increase our carbon storage – speeding up our journey to net zero.
We are working across the Scottish water sector and its supply chain to eliminate emissions from infrastructure development and waste water processing, promote our natural environment and manage our processes better, allowing us to recover resource including energy to contribute to a greener, more circular economy.
The new initiative – a partnership involving Scottish Water and the Scottish Funding Council – will act as a catalyst for academic research and innovation specifically to support the Scottish water sector in delivering and going beyond net zero whilst delivering service excellence and offering great value and financial sustainability.
Our vision is of Scotland as a unified Hydro Nation:
Find out more about who we are working with .
Our Hydro Nation team of four research leader fellows, from engineering, digital technologies, biotechnology and social sciences, will bring together a truly interdisciplinary research agenda.
They will be working across four areas:
Two innovation fellows will ensure research feeds into industry, and businesses can access technology and expertise to create green infrastructure and jobs.
They will work on technology including data and digital innovation, and place-based innovation.
The net zero mission for Scotland's water sector
Embracing the circular economy in Scottish water
Restoring peatlands for net zero by 2040
The University of Stirling is hosting the Hydro Nation Chair in Scotland’s International Environment Centre (SIEC).
The SIEC focuses our world leading capability to lead regional and sectoral environmental research and innovation at scale, so that the protection of our natural resources enables inclusive growth and supports the just transition to a net zero carbon economy.
We are leading experts in water related research.
Over the past five years 49 researchers across Biological and Environmental Sciences and the Institute of Aquaculture have secured over £24 million in water related research.
We received the Queen’s Anniversary Prize 2019 for Environment and Conservation, for our work in sustainable food production through aquaculture.
At the University of Stirling, as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal , we are working with Scottish Water, SEPA, BT and other partners to transform the Forth Valley into a living laboratory.
We are combining sensors, satellites, artificial intelligence and 5G to provide a living laboratory that not only enables us to monitor and understand water quality and quantity and model the effects and benefits of interventions, such as the promotion of natural to capital to improve water quality, mitigate extreme events, capture carbon and promote biodiversity.
Using the Forth Environmental Resilience Array (Forth ERA) we can provide the data and knowledge to transform behaviours and practice and promote the green recovery.
Thought leadership is at the heart of the Hydro Nation Chair initiative – bringing together the world leading research and innovation capability across Scotland to deliver a mission orientated approach.
Hydro Nation Crucible will bring together representatives from business, industry, media, policy and the public sector together with the academic community.
The Research Leader Fellows along with institutional leads will work together on innovative projects that build interdisciplinary and inter-organisational relationships addressing some of the key water related challenges at home and overseas.
The Crucible will also deliver training and capacity building opportunities.
Seedcorn funding will also be available to support proof of concept and the development of new initiatives.
Future event details will be announced soon.
The Chair and the Research Leader Fellows would have £0.7 million available in the first instance to support the development of pump priming/seedcorn research projects, over the first three years of the programme.
This funding will position the Chair, Fellows and Scottish research and innovation community to leverage ambitious large externally funded research projects of both scale and ambition.
The funding would enable preparatory networks and engagement of different stakeholders to work together.
Opportunities for seedcorn funding will be linked to the Hydro Nation Crucible Events.
University of Stirling professor Andrew Tyler has been appointed as Scotland Hydro Nation Chair – which will see him lead a £3.5 million initiative to position the country as a global leader in water research.
Scottish Water and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) have announced a unique partnership with the University of Stirling to deliver the newly created post of the Scotland Hydro Nation Chair.
Funded by Scottish Water, the initiative will be a catalyst for academic research and innovation.
Explore two exhibits in the Scottish Government’s virtual COP26 Hydro Nation Pavilion, demonstrating how Stirling research is making a critical contribution to the climate challenge.
For further information on the Scotland Hydro Nation Chair, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/young-pathfinders:
Young Pathfinders is an educational outreach programme, which empowers young people from Stirling and Clackmannanshire to make a positive impact on their communities and the world at large.
This innovative, extra-curricular environmental education initiative is tailored for young people, with the goal of fostering the next generation of eco-conscious leaders.
Our programme equips students with essential knowledge, skills, and tools to make a positive impact on their communities and the world at large.
The programme is delivered by the University of Stirling’s Enterprise Programme Team , as part of Scotland’s International Environment Centre.
The Young Pathfinder's programme aims to support pupils in achieving the following learning outcomes:
Our programme offers a comprehensive approach to environmental education, incorporating sustainability, conservation, renewable energy, waste reduction, and ecological awareness.
Through engaging activities, interactive sessions, and hands-on projects, we inspire critical thinking, support enterprise skills development, and foster meaningful connections with the environment.
The programme is delivered by experienced educators with expertise in environmental sciences, green careers, and entrepreneurial education.
They are dedicated to providing a positive and empowering learning experience.
We emphasise experiential learning by partnering with local environmental organisations and arranging field trips.
Students will participate in activities like career fairs and conservation projects, experiencing firsthand how their actions can effect change.
The programme promotes personal growth by developing enterprise employable skills such as teamwork, critical thinking, communication, and problem-solving.
We empower students to become catalysts of change, encouraging them to voice their ideas, collaborate on real-world issues, and take on leadership roles.
Please contact us for sponsorship opportunities and join us in making a significant impact on the next generation of eco-conscious leaders.
Learn more about wider enterprise partnership and sponsor opportunities .
We directly contact all schools in the Stirling and Clackmannanshire area about this programme.
Please contact us on siec@stir.ac.uk if you want to find out more.
The programme is structured around the four key themes of Scotland’s International Environment Centre: Business Accelerator, Healthy Landscapes, Future Resources, and Healthy Waters.
The annual Young Pathfinders Climate Competition is designed to inspire and empower pupils to tackle environmental challenges through innovative projects.
The competition encourages pupils to propose and implement solutions to real-world environmental issues.
It involves a series of events and activities that enhance environmental awareness, green skills, and employability.
The programme encouraged participants to:
Previous winners include cohorts from Alloa Academy , and Stirling High , with the pupils’ achievements being celebrated in the local media and the Scottish Parliament.
How young people from Stirling and Clackmannanshire are being empowered to respond to the challenges and opportunities presented by climate change.
The Young Pathfinder’s Programme aligns with the following UN Sustainable Development Goals:
To find out more about the Young Pathfinder’s Programme, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/forestlab:
Launched by the University of Stirling in collaboration with the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment (London School of Economics) and the African Conservation Development Group (ACDG), forestLAB will provide policymakers, investors and development practitioners with the data and tools required to create world-class models of natural ecosystems management that are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
forestLAB is funded by the ACDG and is being launched under Scotland’s International Environment Centre , which is based at the University of Stirling and established as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal.
In Gabon, forestLAB is partnering with the National Research Institute (CENAREST) to ensure alignment with national research interests and best-practice in field.
Equatorial Africa harbours the second largest expanse of rainforest on earth and is crucial in the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss.
forestLAB's work in the region will explore new landscape models that conserve biodiversity, deliver economic benefits to local communities and mitigate against climate change.
The University of Stirling has been working in Gabon for over 40 years and its station in Lopé National Park is deemed a ‘supersite’ for climate research, due to the importance of its unique long-term datasets.
forestLAB will have a physical research hub in Gabon’s Loango National Park – one of the world’s critical havens of biodiversity – and the Stirling team will design and manage a research portfolio – combining natural history, ecology, anthropology and the social sciences.
In June 2021, Gabon became the first African country to receive payment for reducing its carbon emissions, thanks to a model co-developed by the University of Stirling and the Gabon National Climate Council.
Gabon will receive $17million from Norway through the Central African Finance Initiative (CAFI), to be reinvested in sustainable forest management, in the first payment of an eventual $150m over the next ten years.
It is hoped that forestLAB’s work in Gabon, in collaboration with the country’s National Centre for Scientific and Technological Research (CENAREST), will develop a blueprint for sustainable development in Africa, realising the value of its natural capital.
Professor of Tropical Ecology Katharine Abernethy, of the University of Stirling’s Faculty of Natural Sciences, will lead the research, supported initially by Stirling colleagues Dr Kathryn Jeffery and Dr Robin Whytock, with additional staff and students to come on board over the coming years.
They will collaborate with forestLAB partners to set up pioneering biodiversity and human impact monitoring, enabling ecological forecasting for the region, and use existing experience in Lopé to prepare tourism and training materials to enable expert researchers to act as forest tour guides.
Professor Kate Abernethy on how economists, social scientists and ecologists are joining forces in Central Africa to find new solutions to land management and the climate crisis.
Partners in an international conservation research project have signed a crucial scientific collaboration agreement at world climate summit COP26.
A new multi-million-pound project involving University of Stirling scientists will create a research hub to explore climate-smart, conservation-led solutions for sustainable development in central Africa.
If you'd like to find out more about forestLAB, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/forth-valley-connectivity-commission:
Established in September 2021, the Forth Valley Connectivity Commission considered how enhanced transport and connectivity can support the region’s transition to Net Zero.
Bringing together representatives from the local economy, local authorities, and academic expertise from the University of Stirling, the Commission considered connectivity challenges facing the Forth Valley from a regional perspective, proposing a coherent, evidence-based programme of recommendations that builds on major investments to unlock the region’s maximum economic potential.
The Commission took evidence from a range of targeted stakeholders across the region and compiled its findings in its first publication: Forth Valley Connectivity Commission Issues Report (February 2022) .
Scotland has ambitious economic, social, and environmental aspirations, set within a global context of climate change.
Each region of Scotland must play its part, and nowhere has an ‘opt-out’.
In the Forth Valley, this challenge has its own dimensions, and these will require an intelligent response if the region is to seize the opportunities presented by a just transition to Net Zero.
The Commission’s Issues Report identified three interlocking connectivity challenges that must be overcome to enable the region to achieve its full economic potential:
The Commission’s proposed solutions to this trilemma are set out in its Final Report: Bridging Divides, Connecting Communities (November 2023) .
The Commission’s Final Report recommends three ‘Big Moves’ that the region’s political and economic leaders consider, which will provide the foundation for enhanced connectivity.
These stronger connections will, in turn, support the region’s economic transition to Net Zero, but ensure that individuals, families and communities left behind by the current system can access these opportunities fairly: a ‘just transition’.
Taken together, the Three Big Moves provide a blueprint for the Forth Valley to maximise its economic productivity and foster an inclusive route map to a more sustainable way of living.
The Commission’s vision is to ensure that, through enhanced connectivity, the Forth Valley is among the best comparable regions internationally, providing a powerful legacy that enables future generations to prosper.
Secretariat support was provided by the University of Stirling, under the umbrella of Scotland’s International Environment Centre (SIEC).
Established as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal , the Centre’s mission is to create a net zero regional economy and act as a global exemplar of low-carbon growth.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/the-scotland-5g-centre:
The Scotland 5G Centre (S5GC) is the national centre for accelerating the deployment and adoption of 5G connectivity in Scotland’s Industry and Public Sectors.
Funded by the Scottish Government, S5GC provides a wide range of expert, impartial and transparent services free to all Scottish-based private and public sector organisations.
5G isn’t just the next generation of mobile networks – it’s transforming how we work, study and connect with each other.
So, in order to stay ahead of the curve, it’s key that businesses understand the capabilities of 5G and the opportunities it enables.
We offer businesses a unique opportunity to work with leading industry experts and explore how a 5G network could support your digital transformation journey.
Our hubs are located nationwide, providing an opportunity for businesses to use our Private 5G testbed facilities to test their products, services and solutions in a secure environment.
We offer support and advice and work with organizations to develop 5G solutions to grow their business and help put their ideas into practice.
Read about how businesses have used the Private 5G network to test products and services:
Are you interested in exploring the possibilities of 5G for your business?
Get in touch to visit one of our innovation hubs, located nationwide and receive tailored, impartial advice on how to future-proof your business.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/net-zero-support-for-business:
This is not just about the urgency of tackling the climate crisis.
It's also good business because our net zero support can help you reduce costs, access funding and ensure legal compliance.
All businesses must plan for and play their part in helping Scotland meet legislated targets of being net zero by 2045.
However, it's not just about corporate social responsibility or resource efficiency.
Developing a net zero plan can unlock all kinds of benefits for your business.
Net zero and business events
Scotland’s International Environment Centre has been commissioned by Stirling Council to support and facilitate net zero business training across Stirling.
The Environment Centre is working in partnership with the Scottish Business Climate Collaboration to deliver this FREE net zero training.
This partnership project is funded by the UK Government through the UK Shared Prosperity Fund and managed by Stirling Council.
The UK Shared Prosperity Fund is a central pillar of the UK government’s Levelling Up agenda and provides £2.6 billion of funding for local investment by March 2025.
The Fund aims to improve pride in place and increase life chances across the UK investing in communities and place, supporting local business, and people and skills.
If your organisation has operations in Stirling, and you need support with your net zero plan, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/scotlands-international-environment-centre-annual-review-2023:
Scotland’s International Environment Centre (SIEC) is a pioneering collaboration established as part of the £214 million Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal.
By creating an ‘innovation community’ in the Forth Valley, SIEC is pioneering the development of a net zero regional economy and acting as a global exemplar of low-carbon growth.
Our annual review reflects SIEC’s highlights and key achievements from 2023.
Concluding its second year, Scotland’s International Environment Centre (SIEC) is making headway in its mission to pioneer innovative responses to the global climate emergency, as an enabler of productivity and inclusive growth.
Funded as part of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal , SIEC is working in partnership with communities, industry, and policymakers to position the Forth Valley as a global exemplar of a Net Zero economic region.
To succeed, we need to do things differently; collaborating in new ways to leave an indelible legacy within our communities.
Instilling this culture shift is no easy feat but its success will empower the next generation with the skills and mindset to respond to the challenges of a climate-changed world.
I was greatly encouraged by the creative ideas put forward by participants of SIEC’s Young Pathfinders 2023 Climate Competition.
The winning submission , from Ben Moore and Ross McInally at Alloa Academy, was rightly celebrated in the Scottish Parliament as the sort of inspired thinking that’s needed, and I look forward to seeing further imaginative proposals from the programme’s third cohort .
That creative challenge is also at the heart of thinking behind the Futures Institute at Dollar Academy (FIDA), a pioneering new approach to learning - open to all schoolchildren in Scotland - which the University of Stirling will help to develop thanks to a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between the school and SIEC .
Together with our MoU with Developing Young Workforce , the first progressive procurement agreement of its kind as part of any City Region Deal in Scotland, SIEC is demonstrating how by working together, we can foster genuinely inclusive opportunities for employability and skills development.
Climate change remains one of the world’s most pressing problems, requiring a host of solutions from groundbreaking research to practical business support.
That’s why SIEC is working in partnership with the Scottish Business Climate Collaboration to deliver free net zero training for businesses in Stirling, using funding leveraged from the UK Government’s UK Shared Prosperity Fund through Stirling Council, while University of Stirling researchers continue to drive forward the world-leading systems that will catalyse a just transition, including SIEC’s flagship Scotland Hydro Nation Chair and Forth-ERA projects .
As 2023 drew to a close, local authority leaders across the Forth Valley planted some of the first trees of the Forth Climate Forest , a SIEC-hosted initiative that will facilitate the planting of around 16.4 million new trees within the next decade.
The new trees will help prevent the extremes of flooding and temperatures, purify our air, and absorb carbon from the atmosphere, delivering long-term ecological, climate and social benefits across Stirling, Clackmannanshire and Falkirk.
Taken together, these projects are laying the foundations for SIEC’s aspiration to make the Forth Valley an international exemplar of inclusive, low-carbon growth.
We look forward to building on this progress to deliver increasing benefits for our communities and stakeholders in the years to come.
Dr John Rogers, Executive Director of Research, Innovation, and Business Engagement University of Stirling
Crucibles delivered by Scotland’s Hydro Nation Chair resulting in £229,000 funding to projects to tackle water-related challenges
More than 20 regional organisations upskilled through Climate Hub Net Zero training
16 Innovation and Enterprise workshops delivered in Clackmannanshire
2 PhD opportunities co-funded from national and local organisations
14 new jobs created through SIEC and leveraged projects
More than 50 pupils from Clackmannanshire and Stirling regions participate in the Young Pathfinders initiative
Net zero support for business : supporting businesses in the region to set and achieve their Net Zero goals.
Forth Environmental Resilience Array : developing catchment-wide data modelling to enable low carbon opportunities.
Young Pathfinders : equipping the next generation to thrive in a climate-changed world.
Scotland’s Hydro Nation Chair : Bringing Scotland’s water sector together to drive #NetZero.
Forth Valley Connectivity Commission : unlocking access to jobs, learning and services through enhanced transport provision.
Forth Climate Forest : supporting ecology, sustainability and wellbeing through planting 16.4 million.
new trees.
DANUBIUS Implementation Phase : demonstrating how modelling river-sea continuums can support adaptation and resilience to climate change.
MOT4Rivers : exploring how pollution and climate change are impacting freshwater ecosystems
MERLIN : transforming ecosystem restoration through mainstreaming nature-based solutions

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/scotlands-international-environment-centre/forth-climate-forest:
The Forth Climate Forest is the largest tree-planting initiative in the Forth Valley Area.
We work with land managers, communities and partner organisations to plant 16 million trees by 2033.
Trees are integral to our wellbeing.
Planting trees in school grounds, parks, streets, gardens and vacant land the forest will bring multiple benefits to 306,000 people in Forth Valley.
Where possible, existing woodlands will be stitched together to create wildlife corridors.
These corridors will boost biodiversity, offering a safe habitat for birds, bats, bees and all manner of woodland animals.
Annual review 2024
Find out about our progress and achievements with our annual review 2024 .
The Forth Climate Forest focusses on four themes to help tackle climate change and biodiversity loss, The themes are Communities, Canopy, Connectivity and Carbon.
Provide opportunities for communities to take action against climate change and biodiversity loss.
By adapting neighbourhoods to adverse effects of climate change we can make neighbourhoods vibrant and more resilient.
By 2033 we aim to:
Make towns and cities better adapted to extreme weather events by increasing the amount of tree canopy in urban areas.
You can find out more about our canopy analysis work by reading our canopy story map .
Create a network of connected woodlands where wildlife can thrive.
You can find out more about our connectivity analysis work by reading our connectivity story map .
Plant new woodlands which will absorb carbon and help achieve net zero targets.
Everyone can contribute to the Forth Climate Forest: businesses, private and public landowners, public bodies, home owners, volunteers, community groups, schools.
There are opportunities for:
Watch Douglas Worrall talk about the Forth Climate Forest.
Our vision for the Forth Valley is that:
Forth Climate Forest Baseline Report
You can find out more about how and why the Forth Climate Forest was established in the Forth Climate Forest Baseline Report .
The Forth Climate Forest is a partnership hosted by the University of Stirling’s Scotland's International Environment Centre which aims to drive a net zero regional economy.
Forth Climate Forest Concordat
The forest will be delivered by Stirling, Clackmannanshire and Falkirk Councils and Loch Lomond and The Trossachs National Park.
You can find out more about this partnership in the Forth Climate Forest Concordat .
Contact the Scotland’s International Environment Centre.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/city-region-deal/intergenerational-living-innovation-hub:
The new Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub, established through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, is a multi-million pound research and development platform.
Its aim?
To transform the narrative of ageing from one of challenge to opportunity.
Across the industrialised world, populations are getting older.
Globally, the population of people aged 60 and over is set to double by 2050, while in Scotland the population is ageing at a faster rate than the rest of the UK.
This shift is already disrupting economic and social patterns, and creating the demand for new technologies, products and services.
This changing balance presents a profound set of challenges around quality of life, health and well-being but also creates opportunities for economic development and social inclusion.
An ageing population creates demand for new care technologies, new housing models and innovative savings products for retirement to help people remain independent for longer, continue to work or remain economically active, and stay connected to others within and beyond their communities.
The Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub is a multi-million pound research and development platform that will respond to the demands of an ageing population, transforming the narrative from one of challenge to opportunity.
Through pioneering novel approaches to ways of living, working and socialising, the hub will co-create the solutions necessary to support an ageing society to adapt to changing its demographics.
Established with £7.25m of UK Government funding awarded through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, the hub will develop solutions that enhance well-being as we age, providing access to skilled work and driving inclusive economic growth through company creation and inward investment.
Incorporating state-of-the-art infrastructure and a development zone, the hub will enable businesses to embrace the opportunities presented by an ageing population by undertaking at-scale research, product and service development and testing, skills development and training.
The hub will bring together architects, designers, construction companies and services, healthcare and technology providers, and the markets they serve.
This collaborative approach will enable industry, academic partners, service and healthcare providers and the third sector to translate novel and innovative ideas into commercially and socially viable solutions and models through rapid prototype development.
The University of Stirling has established itself as a leading international centre of expertise in the field of ageing and dementia.
The University’s Dementia Services Development Centre (DSDC) is recognised worldwide for its track record in supporting individuals, governments and industry to meet the changing needs of an ageing population, including through developing guidance on how to modify environments to support people to live better with dementia, and to be socially, economically and physically active.
The DSDC Dementia Design Audit Tool is recognised as a global exemplar of how to design living and caring environments for those living with the condition, while the award winning IRIDIS app is an innovative design tool that has revolutionised how dementia-design principles are implemented in the built environment.
Since its launch in 2017 it has more than 25,00 users worldwide.
The University works with a global network of companies that includes large multinationals (such as BoKlok, BUPA, ARJO and MEdiva), SMEs (including Contractors and architectural practices) and specialist foundations and third sector organisations, such as Silviahemmet.
Our established product accreditation scheme allows companies to have their products assessed and accredited for dementia friendly design.
The Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub will build on this established global presence to reinforce the University’s position at the leading edge of healthy ageing research, supporting the creation of innovative products and services, and delivering jobs, investment and skills through genuinely inclusive growth.
Watch the Dementia Services Development Centre tour where experts in ageing, dementia and housing at the University of Stirling shared their pioneering research.
If you’d like to know more about the University's projects within the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal, please contact cityregiondeal@stir.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/publications/annual-review:
Our Annual Review highlights some of the University’s most notable achievements and milestones from the past year.
In 2024, these included celebrating well-earned awards and recognition for our students and staff, enjoying our athletes’ involvement in major sporting events, leading groundbreaking and impactful research initiatives, continuing to strengthen our international networks, and unveiling our new Strategic Plan.
As part of our institutional commitment to enhancing our environmental sustainability and reducing our carbon footprint, our Annual Review is produced in a digital format.
2024 was a milestone year for the University as we launched our new Strategic Plan , setting out our direction to 2030 and beyond.
As we continue to make a positive impact on people’s lives and be a force for good in the world, our vision is underpinned by three pillars – People, Place, Purpose – and guided by our institutional values of ambition, integrity and respect.
The Plan was shaped following extensive engagement with students, staff and partners of the University, and its launch last summer was a huge success, with our community attending an online launch event and a networking reception at the Macrobert Arts Centre.
We now look forward to putting the Plan into action, from deepening our connections locally and globally, to changing lives through our mission-focused research and world-class teaching.
Over the period, the University made significant progress toward its strategic goals.
Our commitment to delivering an exceptional student experience has enabled us to remain competitive in international student recruitment, despite a challenging context.
The National Student Survey ranked Stirling top three in Scotland for 11 subjects – including first place for Social Work, Literature in English, and Environmental Sciences – and the QS World University Rankings placed us within its top 500 global universities.
This recognition is a result of our ongoing commitment to ensuring we continue to be a top destination for prospective students from across the globe, and to improve the student experience at Stirling.
Thanks to growth in our transnational education and partnership activity, our student population now exceeds 17,500 globally, with more than 140 nationalities represented on campus.
We take great pride in the achievements of our university community.
The past year has seen our students and graduates receive prestigious recognition from a host of organisations – for their coursework, their research, their extracurricular activities, and for using their skills and knowledge to make a tangible difference to the world.
Our talented and inspirational staff continue to be celebrated for excellence in their respective fields, appointed to national and international organisations and winning prestigious awards.
With more than 4,800 knowledgeable, talented, and work-ready graduates celebrated at Stirling graduation ceremonies across the year, alongside five inspirational honorary graduates, we were pleased to see our global Stirling family grow to more than 113,000 alumni.
We were delighted to be recognised with an institutional Athena Swan Silver award for the important steps we have taken towards gender equality and inclusion.
At the time of the award, Stirling joined just four other higher education institutions in Scotland and 38 in the UK in holding a Silver institutional award.
At the prestigious Times Higher Education Awards, we received four nominations, including for the top award of University of the Year, and were proud to win Outstanding Marketing and Communications Team of the Year.
We retained an overall five-star rating in the QS Stars University Ratings and ranked top 30 in the UK for postgraduate teaching and learning in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey.
In recognition of our excellence in business education, we were accredited by AACSB International.
As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, University of Stirling athletes continued to compete – and triumph – at the highest level of their sports over the past year.
Among the highlights were the Olympics in Paris, where eight University of Stirling swimmers competed and brought back three medals, including gold for Duncan Scott and Jack McMillan in the Men’s 4 x 200m Freestyle Relay.
Duncan also won silver in the 200m Individual Medley, which saw him become Scotland’s most decorated Olympian.
In recognition of an incredible year, Duncan was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the New Year Honours List, for services to swimming.
He also won Scottish Sportsperson of the Year at The Scottish Sports Awards, Swimming Athlete of the Year at the Aquatics GB Awards, and Swimmer of the Year at the Scottish Swimming Awards, where University coaches Steven Tigg and Bradley Hay also won Coach of the Year.
Golf scholar Lorna McClymont enjoyed another phenomenal year, including winning the coveted Curtis Cup with Great Britain and Ireland, and the Scottish Women’s Amateur Championship.
Just weeks later, fellow Stirling golfer Alexander Farmer won the Scottish Men’s Amateur Championship.
After graduating in June, Lorna secured qualification for the professional Ladies European Tour 2025.
In tennis, scholar Anna McBride won the women’s singles and doubles competitions for the second consecutive year at the Australian Open’s players with intellectual impairments event.
Our researchers continue to take a mission-oriented, collaborative, and interdisciplinary approach to tackling the increasingly complex challenges facing our world, and 2024 saw major projects make important progress – from health and wellbeing to social care, the circular economy to pollution, and workplace policy to the environment.
In October, the University brought together partners – including entrepreneurs, researchers and global statespeople – to launch the DOORS (Developing Optimal and Open Research Support) Black Sea Special Interest Group, which aims to drive regeneration of communities on the coast of the Black Sea.
Our mathematicians developed a new model which predicted a significant increase in the prevalence of ticks across Scotland, and microbiologists studying marine plastic pollution identified rare bacteria that could assist in degrading plastic.
Stirling-led studies found that monetary rewards can incentivise men to lose weight, while experts in healthy ageing recommended policy changes to ensure an age-friendly UK.
In the Faculty of Social Sciences, researchers presented options and key considerations for Scotland’s first drug checking services; a study revealed that it is taking years for Scotland’s most vulnerable children to be placed in permanent homes; and a separate project enabled children in care to preserve and access their childhood memories.
Our business experts found that systemic changes are needed if Scotland is to achieve a more circular economy.
The Faculty of Arts and Humanities won a £3.98m Leverhulme International Professorship grant – the first to be awarded to a Scottish institution – to establish a new Centre for the Sciences of Place and Memory.
Our preparations for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2029 are underway, and we are proud to have three of our staff appointed to the REF pilot panels.
Internationalisation is a key strategic focus for the University and over the year we continued to build and strengthen relationships across the globe – expanding our transnational education activity, collaborating on major research projects, and enhancing our respected learning and teaching partnerships.
A record 158 students graduated from the Singapore Institute of Management, with whom we have a longstanding and hugely successful partnership.
Among them were Dr Lee Ton Nge, who received an honorary degree for his service to Singaporean education and business.
Our unique collaboration with the University of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (UCASS) in Beijing continues to grow; the Doctor of Management degree run jointly by UCASS and our Management School welcomed a new cohort of 30 students.
Notably, it is the first Sino-UK joint professional doctorate programme in management to be approved by the Chinese Ministry of Education, and in December we welcomed a senior delegation from the Ministry to the Stirling campus.
Also in China, there are now more than 1,000 students enrolled in double degrees with Stirling and our partner institution Chengdu University.
In September, I visited British University Vietnam – the site of our first strategic partnership in the country – where our inaugural student cohort is enrolled in BSc Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
And we were proud to become a member of the global University of the Arctic network, which focuses on research in the natural and social environment of the Arctic.
Our projects under the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal continued to progress.
A ceremonial steel signing signalled completion of the first stage of construction of our National Aquaculture Technology and Innovation Hub, funded through the Deal and due to open in 2025.
In December, Keith Brown MSP tabled a parliamentary motion in support of Forth Climate Forest, an initiative led by Scotland's International Environment Centre (SIEC) at the University.
Also funded under the Deal, the initiative will see millions of trees planted across the Forth Valley.
The motion was signed by 22 Members of the Scottish Parliament.
The University was proud to be ranked in the top 100 institutions in the world for our contribution to meeting 10 of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Goals (SDGs), and top 20 in the world for three of the SDGs: Zero Hunger, Reduced Inequalities, and Sustainable Cities and Communities.
Notably, the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings placed Stirling in the top 2% for SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities), and SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities).
Our researchers continue to provide leadership in supporting the world’s transition to net zero, particularly through the work of SIEC and the Scotland Hydro Nation Chair programme.
We are working to make our campus more sustainable too, and over the past year have announced plans for the installation of solar panels, LED lighting and air-source heat pumps.
I am proud of everything we have accomplished in 2024, and with our new Strategic Plan to guide us, the University is well-positioned to build on this success, with groundbreaking research, excellence in the education we provide, impactful partnerships, and delivery of an exceptional student experience.
Professor Sir Gerry McCormac Principal and Vice-Chancellor University of Stirling
University of the Year
Shortlisted
Times Education Awards
Strategic Plan 2030
4,800+ Graduates
3 Olympic medals
Paris 2024
Top 500
global universities
QS World University Rankings, 2024
AACSB accredited
AACSB International
Our researchers are truly making a difference to communities across the globe.
Stirling experts continue to lead in efforts to address drug harm, ageing and child welfare, understand health behaviour, tackle pollution, and improve the economy.
Take a closer look at some of the work the University has been involved in over the last year.
During the last year, our students, staff and wider University community have enjoyed a great number of successes.
Some of the highlights are featured below.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/art-and-artists:
The majority of works are in the Pathfoot Building with sculpture on display all around the campus.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/news:
The 200-year-old Columbian press, a working museum object, is located in the Pathfoot Building on the University campus.
The artist uses lens-based processes to explore responses to environmental, social and economic crises.
The University of Stirling will host Remembered: 80 years since the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki from October 6 to November 14, 2025
The First Minister toured an exhibition of work by pioneering Scottish artists who were responding to the threat of climate change as early as the 1970s
A ground-breaking new exhibition celebrates artists ahead of their time in responding to the threat of climate change.
The University of Stirling is creating a temporary fictitious faculty with the help of two Glasgow artists.
They will form the Faculty of Taking Notice as a way to engage with students and staff.
Award-winning artist Audrey Grant will share new work in a solo exhibition starting on May 25.
Never-before-seen writings and correspondence from author Iain Banks form part of an exhibit at the University of Stirling as it celebrates one of its most celebrated alumni.
A project involving the University of Stirling, Stirling Council and a group of volunteers has uncovered a historic folly on the university grounds.
The University of Stirling is confirmed to host the 2024 Dr Gavin Wallace Fellowship – a year-long writing residency which supports Scottish based mid-career and established writers to develop new work.
A unique art event took place this week in Glasgow chronicling the findings of a research study into the effects of managed alcohol programmes during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Award-winning visual artist Audrey Grant has been appointed as the University of Stirling’s latest Artist-in-Residence.
The first collection of its kind capturing the stories and experiences of a Scottish university community through the global pandemic has been launched.
The University of Stirling is marking World Book Day today by launching a search for volunteers for a ‘human library’, in which readers borrow human beings as they would books.
The University of Stirling has announced Glasgow-based artist Jennifer Wicks as its new artist in residence.
The University of Stirling’s Art Collection is supporting a new festival celebrating care experienced children and young people from the local area.
The University of Stirling is to archive more than a century’s worth of records from the Aberlour Children’s Charity – making the historic documents accessible for the first time.
The Scottish Political Archive, housed at the University of Stirling, is appealing to the public to help collect campaign materials connected to next month’s Scottish Parliament elections.
A new piece of artwork, championing the fight against inequality, has been installed at the University of Stirling, in solidarity with the global Black Lives Matter movement.
The University of Stirling Art Collection has launched a new virtual tour – designed by an award-winning student – allowing members of the public to explore the exhibition during lockdown.
A crowdfunding campaign to support the creation of a graphic novel – telling the story of the Scottish Parliament – has been launched.
An open day celebrating refugee communities’ contribution to life in Scotland will be hosted by the Art Collection at the University of Stirling.
The University of Stirling will host the finals of a national public speaking competition that promotes and supports young people to look at, think about and discuss art.
The University of Stirling has been awarded almost £20,000 to create an online catalogue of its prestigious Art Collection, it has been announced.
A vocational scheme at the University of Stirling Art Collection will offer non-graduates a path into museums work.
Guests are invited to swing back in time to the 1960s at an evening of games, songs and film organised by the University of Stirling.
One of Stirling’s first-ever students has been reacquainted with the University after creating stunning paintings of one of its recent discoveries – the Shetland monkeyflower.
Young musicians from the inspirational Big Noise Raploch programme visited the University of Stirling this week to learn about higher education and the opportunities it can unlock.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/the-pathfoot-building:
Pathfoot is the first building you see, on your left on the hill, as you enter the University of Stirling Campus by the main entrance.
Constructed in 1967, it was the first to be completed on the new campus and is now a listed building.
Read more about its history
Alongside the offices and lecture theatres, Pathfoot is also a public art space, displaying the University's permanent art collection alongside a series of temporary exhibitions in its main concourse and corridors, the large Crush Hall and some of its seventeen courtyards.
Artist in Residence

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/contact-us:
For information on booking guided tours, or to view artworks in the Collection that are not currently on display, as well as all other enquiries, please contact us as follows:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/visitor-information:
We are open Monday to Friday.
Our opening times are 9:00 to 17:00.
Tours of the Art Collection are available on request.
For all enquiries please email: art.collection@stir.ac.uk
The main University Art Collection is in the Pathfoot Building .
Full information about getting to the campus can be found on the University getting here page , which also includes several maps.
Parking charges apply Monday to Friday, 09:00 - 17:00.
Parking information for visitors .
Information about disabled access .
Blue badge holders are not required to pay for parking.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/art-collection-shop:
Giftcards and exhibition catalogues can be purchased in the Pathfoot Crush Hall.
Please pay in the Honesty Box.
You can purchase our exhibition catalogues online.
Prices shown include postage and packaging.
The second edition of the University’s publication discussing the life and works of the Scottish Colourist artist J.D.
Fergusson.
Published in 2011 to mark the 50th Anniversary of the artist’s death, this new edition includes images of each work in the J.D.
Fergusson Memorial Collection, as well as essays by Guy Peploe, Helen Beale, Rory Watson, Angela Smith and Jenny Kinnear.
£6 .
Order Colour Light Freedom
Art and writing by women in HMP YOI Cornton Vale.
Showcasing an arts and writing project at HMP YOI Cornton Vale in Stirling, with poet Evlynn Sharp and artist Brigid Collins, in collaboration with the prison’s New College Lanarkshire Learning Centre.
March 2014.
£1 .
Order Create and Curate
Catalogue of an exhibition of work by Lys Hansen, University of Stirling, 14 March -10 July 2009.
£2 .
Order Relatively Closer
Skin Over Bone: A celebration of the work of James Hardie, Amy Hardie and Gwen Hardie.
Catalogue produced for the Hardie Family Exhibition, Pathfoot Building, University of Stirling, 2 March - 3 May 2013.
Order Skin Over Bone
An exhibition to mark the 40th Anniversary of the foundation of the University of Stirling Art Collection, featuring work by Willie, Anne, Robin and Guy Rodger, Jana Herd and Susan Breakenridge.
1st October – 21st December 2007.
Order Willie Rodger and Family

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/outreach-and-public-engagement:
In a vibrant and exciting programme of events, tours , lectures, workshops, and courses, throughout the year, we reach a wide audience including staff, students, secondary schools, community groups and the general public.
Each year our exhibitions and events are directly inspired by a theme, supporting the research and learning objectives of the University.
See details of what is happening this year.
Read about the events previously run by the Art Collection.
The Art Collection welcomes school parties to the museum and art gallery.
If you are interested in pursuing a career in curation we can provide opportunities to learn hands-on skills.
The Art Collection is committed to supporting our students and staff by providing a welcoming environment with opportunities to meet others and engage in activities to promote wellbeing.
We have worked with a variety of groups to encourage as wide a demographic as possible to engage with the Art Collection.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/art-collection/campus-as-inspiration:
This page celebrates how the beautiful University of Stirling campus has inspired creativity in many ways.
We encourage you to investigate further and perhaps to find some inspiration of your own.
Every year the Art Collection works with the students on the MLitt in Creative Writing programme.
Take a look at our artists in residence, past and present.
This film celebrates works of Art from the collection through the eyes of people who pass them on a daily basis.
An immersive outdoor dance and poetry experience inspired by the University campus.
Forest bathing, or Shinrin-yoku, is the practice of being in nature.
Find out how to enjoy your own forest bathing session around the campus.
A selection of undergraduate students talk about their thoughts and feelings in response to the campus sculpture trail.
Visitors were invited to join Gardner & Gardner in a repetitive, simple action of knitting and building peace through actions and kind words.
Pathfootpath was created by Gardner & Gardner in response to the physical footprint of our Pathfoot Building.
A series of texts traced on the walls, windows and wilder places of the campus, a unique writers' trail in the heart of Scotland.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/psychology-kindergarten/about-us:
Welcome to our kindergarten, where we care for children including those of staff and students at the University.
Our kindergarten offers quality childcare and early education for children from 2 years 9 months up to 5 years of age.
Children over the age of 3 years old are entitled to funded sessions, find out more about our funded places .
We are situated within the University of Stirling campus and are close to major commuter routes, providing easy access to public transport and motorways.
We have a large car park for parents to use when dropping off and picking up children.
We are open Monday to Friday, 9am-3pm, and are open for 38 weeks of the year in line with Stirling Council term dates .
We are unique in the UK because our kindergarten is supported by the University of Stirling Psychology division to give staff and students the opportunity to work with the children on different activities and exercises that will support research.
Parents can opt out of any research as well as children having the autonomy to choose not to take part during a research activity.
Our kindergarten has been an established and respected childcare provider for many years and has developed a strong reputation for delivering high quality and meeting the needs of our individual children and their families.
We have been graded ‘excellent’ by the Care Inspectorate for our quality of care and support.
Read our last inspection report .
We have been working in partnership with Stirling Council since 2019 and offer funded sessions for up to 30 hours per week.
Find out more about our partnership with the Council and funded places .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/psychology-kindergarten/childcare-facilities:
Our Kindergarten caters for children from 2 years 9 months to 5 years of age.
We have our main playroom , and we also benefit from the extensive grounds on the University campus .
Our indoor learning space is filled with natural light, offering a continuous connection to the outside environment.
The indoor space is designed to ignite children’s curiosity and imagination through carefully selected provocations and offers a fun learning environment, which embed all learning styles, strengths and needs.
There is a growing body of research illustrating that young children’s access to nature and outdoor play is linked to improved self-esteem, physical, health, development of language skills and increased learning.
We believe in continuously extending the outdoor learning provision in our setting to offer all the children more possibilities to explore nature, develop a sense of wonder, and test their emotional and physical boundaries while assessing the risks.
We love to be outside at our kindergarten and we have an outdoor classroom to support this.
This space offers a great area for children to play, explore and connect to nature.
Our wider campus facilities provide the perfect setting for children to investigate and have fun walking through the woods and around the loch.
We've also designed and planted herbs in our sensory garden and have access to our own allotment for growing potted fruit, flowers and vegetables.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/psychology-kindergarten/research:
Psychology at the University of Stirling has a long history of forward-thinking excellence in developmental research.
Our University researchers conduct innovative and world-leading child development research and teaching.
At our Kindergarten we help support this research using a variety of approaches with our researchers and children, ranging from observational studies, free-play paradigms and eye-tracking.
Parents and guardians can be reassured that all research projects are carried out to rigorous health and safety standards and we also follow General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
When you register your child at our kindergarten you can decide whether or not you are happy for your child to participate in our research activities.
These activities and exercises are a complimentary part of your child’s experience at the kindergarten and will not disrupt their learning.
We create an active, mutual community between staff and parents by feeding back any result of our activities.
The kindergarten is invaluable for our research and teaching activities at the University of Stirling, which aim to enhance the experience of our students by providing them with a unique ‘real world’ setting for developmental psychology.
The Kindergarten has two dedicated research rooms and an observation room available to support staff and student research projects.
The number of children (aged 2 years 9 months to 5 years) attending the kindergarten varies widely, but there are maximumly 13 children attending per day.
If you would like a tour of the kindergarten research facilities, please contact the kindergarten research chair Dr Line Caes at line.caes@stir.ac.uk .
As soon as you have an idea for a research project in the Kindergarten, we advise you to contact the Kindergarten Manager (Danielle Ramsay) and the Kindergarten Research Chair (Dr Line Caes) to discuss the suitability of the project.
Before you can start your research project you need to apply for ethical approval, a PVG and a research passport.
We have a standard procedure to gain consent from parents when they enrol their child with the option to opt out of any study after receiving specific information about the study.
The findings of any study are shared with parents via study posters displayed in the hallway, during stay-and-play sessions and a yearly Research Booklet.
To find out more about the research we are doing in the kindergarten, you can also explore our Lifespan Research Lab website .
Read the report of an adventurous play project led by Dr Lily Fitzgibbon and funded by Frobel Trust.
"It's been such a unique experience for my learning." - third-year Psychology undergraduate student
"Students were able to consolidate their knowledge of child development theories and observation methods from previous modules and social work placements.” - final year Social Work undergraduate student
"It was a really interesting and fun experience.
I saw how the children react and play with each other, how committed they are into doing stuff.
The assistant was brilliant and I really enjoyed my time there." - third-year Psychology undergraduate student
"The opportunity to observe the children in the kindergarten was a once in a lifetime experience” - third-year Psychology undergraduate student

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/psychology-kindergarten/reviews:
Hear from parents and guardians of children attending our childcare facility in Stirling.
You can also read the latest Inspection Report from the Care Inspectorate .
The kindergarten instantly struck us as a vibrant and diverse community.
It was clear from our first visit that the children have a great connection with the nature on campus, supported by a wonderful team of staff, with opportunities to explore and develop in a safe environment.
The connection with the research outputs of the department was also really exciting, reflecting not only how well-informed the kindergarten practice would be but also how, as parents, we could learn too.
Alban and Lesley
The university kindergarten is a unique and special place in a beautiful setting.
The children really enjoy exploring the woods and lochs and playing in the courtyard.
The staff go above and beyond to provide individual care for each child and they have also been a great support to us as parents.
We feel very involved with everything the children do at kindergarten and love seeing all of their artwork and projects.
The staff were so patient and supportive when my son took time to settle in.
They are trustworthy, caring, lovely people and I couldn't imagine a better place for my children to thrive and develop in.
Thank you!
Kerry
My son has enjoyed every day in kindergarten and has developed so much since he joined the kindergarten.
Even we, as parents, learnt a lot from the brilliant teachers about how to help our children by encouraging and guiding them in even small pieces of daily activities.
Guangqi
I chose the kindergarten as when I visited it as a toddler group I met the lovely staff and saw first hand how much they care for the kids.
The small, personable setting I believe is a great way to transition young children from being at home into the classroom.
I trust the staff and know that they are capable of looking after each child's individual needs.
Caroline
The kindergarten has amazing access to outdoor resources and nature.
The staff are kind and accommodating to the needs of children and parents.
Abbey

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/psychology-kindergarten/contact-us:
For all enquiries please email psychologykindergarten@stir.ac.uk or call 07585 123430 .
We accept applications at any point in the year however, Stirling Council request the following year's applications by 28 February ahead of panel meetings in March.
If we cannot give you your preferred sessions, your details will be added to a waiting list where you will be updated with availability and a possible start date for your child.
Funded places are available for children aged over 3 years.
Children not yet eligible for funding can attend by paying the fees.
Email your enrolment request to psychologykindergarten@stir.ac.uk or call 07585 123 430 .
Please let us know your child's age and, if known, how many days of childcare you would like.
We will reply with registration forms and arrange a visit before confirming your place.
We look forward to welcoming you and your family to our kindergarten.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/campus-central:
Campus Central is the heart of the University of Stirling.
Opened in late 2021, Campus Central is the result of a major £23 million infrastructure investment and features vibrant digitally-connected spaces for socialising and study, as well as shops, cafés and our new Student Services Hub.
The atrium is the centre of life on campus, where you will find a wide range of study and collaboration spaces, cafés and a shop.
The atrium is the ideal place to meet up with friends for a coffee, grab lunch, work through that group project together, or find the space for some quiet study time.
A well-stocked campus shop.
Products include Seattle's Best Coffee, Slush Puppie drinks, and a range of hot food to complement the wide selection of groceries available.
Opening times (semester time)
Monday to Friday: 7:00 to midnight Saturday and Sunday: 8:00 to midnight
Opening times (outside semester time)
Monday to Sunday: 8:00 to 22:00
A convenient way to pick up any medicines or prescriptions you might need.
Opening times
Monday to Friday: 9:30 to 17:00
Show your true colours with a range of University of Stirling merchandise .
Monday to Friday: 11:00 to 17:00
Work in individual study pods or collaborative learning spaces within easy reach of the library .
Commuting to campus?
You can store items daily in our locker room using your own padlock.
Location
The locker room can be found in the corridor leading to the Student Union, before the Chaplaincy.
Using the lockers
All the lockers are numbered, keep a note of the locker number you are using.
Lockers should be emptied at the end of each day to allow other students to access them.
University staff will empty any lockers that haven't been cleared at the end of each day which may also include removing padlocks, any items removed will be securely stored for 48 hours to allow recovery of the items.
The University cannot accept responsibility for valuables lost or stolen from this location.
If you have any queries about the lockers, contact the Security Team at 01786 467003 or email security@stir.ac.uk .
At its new home in Campus Central, the Student Services Hub is your one-stop-shop for a wide range of support to help you make the most of your time at the University of Stirling.
#JustAsk our helpful Student Services team.
With three floors the size of a football pitch, our library has all the tools and resources you need to succeed.
Catch the latest blockbusters, stand-up and theatre in this vibrant cultural hub right here on campus.
A thriving postgraduate community with unrivalled support for study and research.
Open to students of all faiths and none, our chaplaincy offers guidance and support, prayer rooms or just a quiet place for reflection.
Enjoy a breath of fresh air in our newly pedestrianised Queen's Court, a tranquil retreat right in the heart of campus.
Led by students, for students.
Discover a hub of venues, events, sports clubs and societies to help you make the most of student life.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/the-loch:
Airthrey Loch is the heart of our idyllic campus and forms a beautiful setting with the Ochil Hills as an impressive back-drop.
The loch is an important part of community life at the university.
It’s 2.5km path is perfect for strolls, jogging or just sitting down to enjoy the peaceful views.
In the spring and summer, the banks of the loch are perfect for socialising.
The loch is home to an abundance of wildlife.
You’ll see swans and ducks enjoying a morning swim as you make your way to class.
In spring, you’ll share the loch’s paths with the chicks and cygnets.
The views are spectacular and different every day with the ever-changing weather and the passing of the seasons.
Loch Airthrey was created in the late 18 th century as part of the landscape designed around the Airthrey Castle estate.
The loch was once popular with curlers and ice skaters until an accident in 1901 saw three people die after falling through the ice.
Sadly, the Airthrey Castle Curling Club (founded 1878) have only used the loch once, in the cold winter of 1979, since this tragic event.
The footbridge was built across the loch in 1970 and is now Category-C listed.
Underscoring the uniqueness of our beautiful campus, the five-star facilities at Stirling come bundled with an 18th century castle.
Overlooking the University loch, Airthrey Castle was built in 1791 to a design by influential architect Robert Adam, and has served as everything from a grand residence to a maternity hospital in the years since.
Explore our art collection, research our unique archives, see inspiring theatre productions or follow our sculpture trails.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/medical-centre:
To provide for your healthcare needs during your time at university, our campus plays host to a dedicated NHS general medical practice and dental centre.
Every student is entitled to register for these practices and benefit from the friendly, personal service they offer.
The Medical and Dental Centre are open online only for new registrations.
Please click on the link below or visit www.apmc.co.uk for more information.
Open Monday to Friday, 8:00am until 6:00pm
Contact the medical centre on +44 (0)1786 463831
Open Monday to Friday, 9:00am until 5:30pm
Contact the medical centre on +44 (0)1786 448890
See NHS Forth Valley's guide to services to help you get the right medical care in the right place.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/culture-on-campus:
Our campus holds many cultural treasures which are available for all to enjoy.
You can explore our art collection, research our unique archives, see inspiring theatre productions or follow our sculpture trails.
Use #CultureOnStirCampus to share your campus culture.
Macrobert Arts Centre brings a non-stop schedule of movies, live theatre and much more right to your doorstep.
The University's Art Collection is displayed in the atmospheric spaces and courtyards of Pathfoot as well as across the campus.
Our unique library collections provide a rich research resource for dissertations, PhDs and research projects.
Explore our beautiful Garden of Time where nature meets art.
Discover how the beautiful University of Stirling campus has inspired a wide range of creative projects.
Discover the fascinating history of the estate on which the University of Stirling was built.
Learn the history of Airthrey on our Culture on Campus blog .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/why-stay-in-university-managed-accommodation:
With our wide range of accommodation available both on and off campus you can be assured of a fantastic student experience when you stay in University of Stirling student accommodation.
It offers several benefits for students.
Our student accommodation is conveniently located right here on campus or on a short commute, so puts you at the centre of student life.
You're close to your classes, as well as our fantastic facilities such as cafes, cinema, library, Students' Union, Sports Centre, supermarket, health centre and laundry facilities.
We make sticking to a student budget easier by including heating, electricity, contents insurance, WiFi, and housekeeping assistance in your rent so there's no unexpected bills!
We look out for our students by providing a 24/7 security team and emergency support as well as a range of support services, such as the SafeZone app and our Safe Taxi Scheme .
Each accommodation has secure access systems creating a reassuring environment for students.
Our friendly Accommodation Operations Assistants team provides cover to all residences 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and is on hand if you have any problems or issues.
There's also housekeeping assistance in most of our accommodations.
Living in university-managed accommodation is the quickest and easiest way to make friends.
When you apply for our accommodation, we’ll ask you some questions to ensure you live with like-minded students.
Staying in our accommodation gives you a supportive and vibrant community where you can engage in social activities and events or join one of our 120 clubs and societies right on your doorstep.
Hear from some of our students about why they love living in University of Stirling accommodation both on and off campus.
One of our students, Arya, takes you on a typical day living on campus showing you all the highlights of staying here.
The safest student city in Scotland
At Stirling there's lots of accommodation options to choose from with over 2,800 bedrooms across 19 properties, both on and off campus, Our residences are designed to cater to various needs and preferences, offering a range of room types and facilities so it's useful to make a list of your preferences before applying.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/how-to-apply:
We make it easy to apply for accommodation through our online application portal.
Regardless of whether you’re an undergraduate, postgraduate or visiting student, the portal allows you to select and prioritise the places you’d most like to live.
If you’re a new or visiting student, you’ll be sent login details for the portal after accepting your offer to study at Stirling.
The University of Stirling will guarantee an offer of University-managed accommodation in your first year of full-time study, commencing in September 2025, if you meet the eligibility criteria and your application reaches us by the advised deadline.
The guarantee is subject to terms and conditions.
See our accommodation allocation policy for further information .
If your course starts in September 2025 , applications accommodation will open at 10:00 on 7 April 2025 .
This includes applications for visiting students.
If your course starts in January 2026 , you can apply for accommodation from October 2025 .
If you're a new student, you'll follow these four simple steps to apply for university accommodation.
Returning students only need to follow steps 3 and 4.
Accept your offer to study at the University of Stirling.
Check your email – we'll send you the login details you need to access the student portal.
Apply for accommodation online via the application link on the student portal.
Confirm your place by accepting the offer of accommodation we've given you by the deadline detailed on your offer.
There is only a limited amount of family accommodation available at any time and this can be in high demand.
Please apply online via your accommodation dashboard.
We offer a range of purpose-built and fully accessible accommodation designed to suit students with a variety of requirements.
Get in touch with us to discuss your needs and ensure the room you’re allocated is a perfect fit.
To apply for staff accommodation on campus, please contact Kirsten Berry at +44 (0) 1786 467060 or email k.l.berry@stir.ac.uk.
Find out how we prioritise applications in our Accommodation Allocation Policy.
Take a closer look at the terms and conditions of applying for accommodation at the University of Stirling.
Before accepting your offer of accommodation you must read the appropriate occupancy agreement for your year of entry.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/accommodation-life:
Living in our student accommodation gives you more than a place to live.
You'll be part of a vibrant community with a range of services for students who live and study with us.
Try to pack smart and bring just the essentials.
See our suggestions of what not to forget!
Communal laundry facilities are located in a number of our properties so doing your washing is easy!
Some take payment by card and others are included in your rent.
An A to Z guide of everything you need to know including car parking, recycling, fire safety, maintenance and more.
When the time comes to move into student accommodation here in Stirling we promise you a warm welcome.
Read our information about moving into your accommodation so that's it as stress-free as possible.
Our friendly Accommodation Operations Assistants run residences on a day-to-day basis and can be found at university-managed residences’ reception desks.
They are generally your first point of contact if you have any problems or issues.
The AOA team provides cover to all residences 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Engage in social activities and events in our Be Connected programme to take part in or join one of our 120 clubs and societies right on campus!
As Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence we have lots going on for students to take part in from group walks to sociable just play sport sessions.
Help us create an environment where everyone can live comfortably and study successfully by following our Code of Student Discipline.
Please read the following instructions for what you need to do when leaving your student accommodation at the end of your contract.
If you live in University accommodation, you can contact your accommodation team 24/7.
Get the details of how to do that along with the postal addresses of each residence.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/how-to-pay:
In accepting your University accommodation offer, you enter into a legally binding agreement to pay all the rental charges associated with your room.
You will be able to see and review instalment plans once you have received your accommodation offer.
The instalment amounts will be based on the total rent due divided equally over the number of instalments requested.
Each instalment does not cover a specific period.
Make sure you know your payment plan and ensure your chosen account has sufficient funds to cover the rent payments on the days they are scheduled to be withdrawn.
The University’s preferred method of payment for rent is Direct Debit, but other methods of payment are also accepted.
If you have a UK bank account, you can set up a Direct Debit online during the process of accepting your room.
Please contact us if you have any problems.
You must also read our Direct Debit terms and conditions .
You can pay for your accommodation online throughout the year via the Accommodation Dashboard of your Student Portal account.
View our bank details .
If you're making a transfer, you are liable for both the senders and receivers charges.
You can make debit or credit card payments in our office or over the phone.
Call us on +44 (0) 1786 467060 .
If at any time you find yourself in financial difficulties and are unable to pay your rent, please come and speak to us at Accommodation Services as soon as possible.
Staff are experienced in assisting students who are facing financial difficulties and agreements for different repayment schedules to suit individual needs can be reached.
Non-payment of rent will result in a request to attend a meeting with Accommodation Services and may also result in you being asked to leave University accommodation.
If you need to discuss any aspect of your rent, please contact Accommodation Services on +44 (0) 1786 467060.
Our Money Support team can offer advice on money matters, and you may also be eligible for our Accommodation Enhancement Fund or additional discretionary and assistance funds.
Read more about the financial support available .
The team have got lots of hints and tips on how to budget when on a low income.
See their guide to managing your money.
Accommodation Services require at least 7 working days' notice prior to rent collection dates to cancel a direct debit instruction.
The University of Stirling does not accept any liability for any bank charges incurred by students as a result of a direct debit request being made against an account.
Students are responsible for cancelling any direct debits directly with the bank.
If you find difficulty in opening a bank account which will accept direct debits you can make alternative arrangements with Accommodation Services by contacting this office in advance for approval.
Those students (particularly first year) who do not have a bank account will need to open one in order to pay in SAAS/local authority grant cheques and/or amounts from sponsors or other sources.
Students who are not resident in the UK and don't have a UK bank account will be allowed to submit the direct debit form after a UK account has been opened.
This form is required to be completed and returned to the Accommodation Services office at least three weeks prior to the date of the first instalment.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-rental-accommodation:
Important information for those who decide to stay in private rental accommodation, rather than University-managed accommodation.
If you are travelling from outside Scotland, accommodation should be arranged before you arrive as there is limited private accommodation available for multiple occupancy.
We strongly advise you not to arrive in Scotland without accommodation.
You should try to find accommodation that is local to the University, so you don’t incur expensive travel costs to and from the University campus.
There are laws in Scotland relating to the number of students that are legally allowed to share a property .
Make sure you carefully read and understand the conditions of the tenancy/rent agreement and note the period the agreement covers and the rental due.
The most common types of rental accommodation available in the private sector are:
Self-contained flats, houses and private halls are in high demand in Stirling, Glasgow and Edinburgh.
If you are looking for private accommodation before you come to Scotland, the best way to find private rental properties is to search online for student accommodation in Stirling.
This will provide you with information on the private rental properties available and the cost.
Websites worth visiting include rightmove.co.uk and s1homes.co.uk .
Students advertise for flatmates to live with them through online sites such as spareroom.co.uk .
You will need to register with these sites before you can look for a room to rent.
Spareroom charges a fee if you want to see new flat share listings.
Otherwise, you will need to wait until the listing is seven days old.
Bedsits consist of a single room in a property, sharing facilities such as a kitchen and bathroom with others, and are often located in private homes.
Alternatively, a landlord may rent the individual bedrooms within their property as bedsits.
The best way to find a bedsit is to search online for bedsits in Stirling.
You can find private properties available to rent by searching online, particularly if you are not in Scotland at the time of looking for a property to rent.
The search results will provide information on the properties available through local letting agencies and companies specialising in student accommodation.
Adverts can also be found online through sites like Facebook and Gumtree.
These are not governed by a local body, so be careful if using private adverts.
Where possible, always try to view the property before making a payment.
If you can't view the property, always check that the person you are sending the money to, and the property, are legitimate.
It is a good idea to search online for the landlord or letting agent's name and the words “scam” or “fraud”.
If there have been problems in the past, someone is likely to have posted about it on the internet.
In student accommodation managed by the University , the cost of energy and wi-fi are included in the monthly rent.
But if you are living in private rented accommodation, it is likely that you will have bills to pay on top of your rent.
The bills will cover things such as gas, electricity, landline and wi-fi.
So you need to ensure that you factor these costs into your budget, and not just the monthly rent cost.
Another hidden cost is travel - especially if you rent somewhere outside Stirling.
Make sure you include train and bus costs in your budget.
Private rental properties housing three or more unrelated people must have an HMO licence from the relevant council planning department.
The licence will confirm the maximum number of people permitted to stay within the property.
Important: you cannot have more tenants living in a property than the HMO states.
For example: if the licence covers four tenants, you are not permitted to have more than this number staying in it.
The landlord of the property should have applied for an HMO licence.
If the property is licensed, the licence must be prominently displayed.
If you cannot see it, you should ask the landlord to show you a copy.
You can also contact your local council as they have a list of all the licenced landlords in their area.
An HMO licence proves that the necessary checks have been carried out on the rental property to ensure that:
Unlicensed HMOs are illegal and living in an unlicensed HMO could risk your health, safety and welfare.
Find out more about HMO licencing and landlords' responsibilities at Shelter Scotland .
When moving into a private rental property, your landlord should ask you to sign a tenancy agreement.
A tenancy agreement is a contract between you and your landlord which states the terms and conditions of you living in their property.
It is normally a written document outlining the terms of your stay.
Read Shelter Scotland's guide to tenancy agreements .
Most landlords require you to pay a deposit when you move into private rented accommodation.
A deposit is an amount of money which acts as a guarantee against damage to the property, cleaning bills if you have left the property in poor condition, unpaid bills and unpaid rent.
Your landlord cannot charge you more than the equivalent of two months’ rent for the deposit and they have to register the deposit with a tenancy deposit scheme within 30 working days of the tenancy starting.
Important: an approved tenancy deposit scheme will never ask you to pay money to them directly – you should always pay your deposit to your landlord or letting agent.
Read more about paying a deposit and what you can do if you can't afford a deposit.
Just because an advert is hosted on a reputable or well-known website, it doesn’t guarantee the person posting the advert is to be trusted.
Ensure that the property exists and is available to rent before sending money for the deposit.
Do not agree to rent a property where the landlord says it is being managed via Airbnb.
This is a known scam where fraudsters advertise somewhere like Facebook marketplace and set up a fake email address appearing to come from Airbnb.
Do not send money to a landlord/letting agent via Western Union or similar money transfer companies, as this is untraceable.
If you are transferring money to a landlord/letting agent do so via bank transfer or debit/credit card.
If they insist on cash or a money transfer company, they may be trying to deceive you.
Do not pay anything other than rent or a deposit in advance.
Only pay this once you have checked that the property exists and is available to rent and are happy with the tenancy agreement/contract the landlord has provided.
Before signing a tenancy agreement where there are three or more unrelated people renting the property, check with the landlord that the property has an HMO licence (planning permission for multiple occupancy use) and more importantly that there are no enforcement notices prohibiting multiple occupancy use.
Always try and get the names of people you speak to on the phone and keep all correspondence such as letters and emails.
Renting a flat is a continuing and binding obligation, so always make sure you check before committing yourself.
Pay particular attention to the termination clauses.
If in doubt always ask for advice.
Shelter Scotland and Citizens Advice Bureau offer an excellent advisory service.
In addition to the above information, the following websites provide good advice and guidance:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/support-wellbeing/student-support-services:
Whether you feel like you’re thriving or in need of a helping hand, our dedicated student support team is here to listen, offer guidance and point you in the right direction at every turn.
Explore our specialist services below and get in touch to find out more about the wealth of support available to you.
Professional advice, mental health support and counselling services.
Apply for discretionary and assistance funds and get budgeting advice.
Supporting additional needs for learning.
Find out how we can help.
Offering guidance for students of all faiths and none.
Preventing and tackling sexual violence together.
Advice and support are available.
How to access free period products on campus
This service has been created to provide tailored support for students who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or trans.
Find out what support is available for you.
The University has developed a holistic support package for care experienced students.
Visit our staff page for information on how to support students as a staff member.
Find out how we tackle and prevent bullying and harassment, and offer support to those affected.
See details of how to get here, when we're open and who to contact.
For general enquiries please use the contact details below.
In the event of an emergency, call 7999 (on an internal phone) or 01786 467999 (from a mobile phone) to be connected to University Security.
Or call 999 if off-campus to be connected to emergency services.
Get details of the out of hours and emergency support available .
We respect the privacy of everyone who uses our Support Services.
Follow our guidance if you are in crisis or facing an emergency situation.
Helpful information about coping with exam pressure, settling into university life and more for current University of Stirling students.
Information about coming to Stirling to study or going abroad to study.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/support-wellbeing/student-learning-services:
To do this, we run a regular schedule of workshops and tutorials organised by our Student Learning Services team.
We also have some great on-line guidance to enhance your study skills and support your success.
No matter what stage of your studies you’re at, you can take advantage of these resources to ensure that your studying is effective, efficient and enjoyable.
Email: sls@stir.ac.uk
All students are welcome to use Student Learning Services.
You may find our sessions and resources particularly useful if you:
What we're able to do:
We cannot read whole assignments, proofread work, edit work or comment on what grade you'll get.
We have a dedicated site on Canvas (our Virtual Learning Environment) with useful information and guidance about studying at university.
It cover a range of academic skills essential for a successful learning experience.
We have a great set of study skills webinar workshops to help you prepare for successful study at the University of Stirling.
The webinars are informal and there will be opportunities to ask questions.
All of the information about our workshops and how to book your place can be found on the Stirling Essentials Study Skills SharePoint site .
You can book an individual tutorial to chat about any aspect of your learning and studying at university.
You can ask questions about particular issues such as how to approach studying at university, starting and managing assignments or improving your grades.
English language support for international students is provided by the University of Stirling International Study Centre.
They provide a range of opportunities for you to improve your study skills, meet new people and practice your English language skills.
Student Learning Services can work with staff to embed learning strategies into the curriculum and support students in programmes.
In order for Student Learning Services (SLS) to deliver appropriate support, it is essential for SLS tutors to keep a record of their engagement with students.
Typically, these brief notes will include limited personal information, such as student name and student number, as well as a summary of the key issues discussed, guidance provided by the tutor and any agreed actions.
Recording and storing of these notes is necessary to ensure that SLS can deliver appropriate and relevant academic support to students, in turn enabling them to progress with their educational programmes of study.
During the course of engagement with a tutor, sensitive information, such as medical details or a disability, may be disclosed.
If SLS think it would be advantageous to the student to record this information as part of the ongoing academic support provided, this will be discussed with the student.
The student will be asked to provide written consent to allow the service to record and store this specific information.
It is essential for our staff to keep brief records on their engagement with students, for the following reasons:
Student Learning Services staff are committed to protecting and respecting a student’s confidentiality and privacy.
Our staff will not pass on personal information about students, except in the following circumstances:
Wherever possible, we will seek the consent of students to share information and we will encourage students to disclose information to relevant third parties where appropriate.
Shared information will only be on a need to know basis and in the interests of providing robust and appropriate support to the student.
However, in cases where the risk of harm is sufficiently acute and where there is no indication that a student has or will disclose information to the third party, we may pass on the information directly to relevant staff or to external parties, such as the student’s GP.
Student Learning Services collects data on, for example, how many students access our service, which modules and study topics students have questions about and how satisfied students are with the support they receive.
Student information will at times be used for statistical monitoring purposes, but no students will be identifiable from reports produced using that data.
Actual student engagement notes are only used by SLS and a small number of other support staff for the purposes of providing ongoing academic support.
The notes are not used by any other university staff.
All SLS tutors’ notes and any information provided during meetings with SLS staff will be held securely within the case management system operated by the SLS team.
This system is restricted to a small number of staff who need access to provide support and to maintain the IT system.
The notes are not available to academic staff or other university services, except under exceptional circumstances.
The SLS team will retain student information and case notes for one year after a student graduates from the University of Stirling.
Information will then be destroyed confidentially.
A student has the right to request a copy of the information that SLS holds about them and to request corrections or deletions of that information.
In cases where consent has been provided for the recording and storage of sensitive information, the student has the right to subsequently withdraw that consent.
If a student is not content for SLS to record, use or share their information, the student is welcome to use the service but it may not be possible to provide them with the best support possible as the lack of records will prevent continuity.
Students can gain right of access to their SLS engagement notes by making a Subject Access Request .
To request corrections to or deletions of that information, the student should contact us at sls@stir.ac.uk or call SLS on 01786 466188.
For more information, students can contact the University of Stirling’s Data Protection team ( data.protection@stir.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/about/professional-services/student-academic-and-corporate-services/academic-registry:
Academic Registry deliver a range of key administration and information services for students throughout their studies at the University of Stirling, from enrolment to graduation.
We also oversee the University's arrangements for academic quality assurance and enhancement, and coordinate academic policy.
The student experience lies at the heart of what we do and our consistent aim is to deliver excellent services to both students and staff.
Please use the links on the breadcrumb to access information and find out more about the Academic Registry team and the services we offer.
Information on a wide range of areas such as enrolment, module selection, teaching timetabling, student visas, tuition fees, graduation and academic transcripts.
Important information on upcoming exam dates and timetables.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/which-career-to-choose:
If you don’t know what to do, you’re like many other students and it’s perfectly normal.
Not many people have a firm career choice in mind.
It can be a difficult decision and this is where we can help.
The first career you choose doesn’t have to be the one you stay in for life.
It’s best to think about your initial career steps rather than being daunted by a long-term decision.
The earlier you start thinking about your career choices, the more time you’ll have to plan ahead before you graduate.
You should make a positive start by gaining experience or volunteering in an area that interests you.
This will give you more knowledge and add valuable skills to your CV.
Play to your strengths and think about what jobs may suit your personality and working style.
Everyone has a different and unique set of skills and attributes.
You can start exploring your career ideas on our Careers on Canvas site .
We also give you access to personality tests, so you can discover your strengths, attributes and preferred working style.
This is open to graduates as well as students.
If you're a current student, see our personality profiling page.
If you're a graduate, simply contact us via the Hub for access information.
Challenge yourself and add skills to your CV by getting involved with our University of Stirling clubs and societies .
You could start your own club, help organise group events or take on a responsible role, like a secretary or president.
There’s so much potential for you to build on your skills as well as making friends.
You can gain more confidence and build on your organisation skills, while growing your network of connections.
You’ll get recognition for your extra-curricular activities through the My Stirling Award .
Become a volunteer to show potential employers that you’re proactive and willing to help valuable causes.
Could you spare an hour or two a week?
That’s all it could take to volunteer.
Volunteering can give you useful skills to make your first career steps.
It can also count towards your My Stirling Award .
Find out more about volunteering on Careers on Canvas and view opportunities on TARGETconnect .
There are numerous organisations that welcome volunteers and you can find opportunities near you with by getting involved with our Students’ Union through Stirling Voluntary Enterprise or joining Project Scotland , Volunteer Scotland .
Rather than waiting until inspiration strikes, try jobs out to see what you like and what you’re good at.
Gaining experience will give you a career insight and show what it’s really like working in a particular industry.
You may find that what you like is different to what you expected.
It’s better to try before you graduate, so you have a clearer picture of where you can fit best in the jobs market.
Learning on the job is often the best way to see if you like a job.
Are you asking: what can I do with my degree?
Many graduate jobs are open to people from any degree.
Your degree can give you transferable skills that are sought after in a wide variety of roles.
Think about the transferable skills you’ve learnt during your course –teamwork, presentations, reporting and research for example.
Many of these skills are required in any occupation.
Looking for more ideas?
We have a dedicated Careers Consultant for each of our faculties.
We have a pool of talent in our 100,000+ strong alumni, many of whom act as student mentors, inspiring the next generation of leaders and professionals.
Speaking to one of our mentors can help give you a clearer idea of what it’s really like to work in a particular area.
In addition, your mentor can also help you with application and CV advice.
Find out more about alumni mentoring and career development in your faculty:
Our experienced Careers Consultants are independent and won’t pressurise you into making a decision which isn’t right for you.
Remember it’s never too early (or too late!) to start thinking about your career options.
From your first year to your final year and beyond, we’re here to help.
Talking to someone can act as a catalyst for careers ideas and we can advise on application processes and much more.
Make an appointment through TARGETconnect .
You may be thinking about starting your own business.
Our Student Enterprise programme can help you transform an idea into a viable business.
The Hive, based at University of Stirling Innovation Park , is our Student Enterprise incubator and you’ll find a wealth of resources and help here.
What’s on offer?
Access free office space, professional advice, mentoring and business support.
There’s loads of support available if you want to take on the challenge of starting your own business.
We also arrange for a Business Gateway Consultant to visit campus during semester to offer a drop-in advisory session.
See TARGETconnect for the dates of this drop-in session.
It can be hard to choose the right career option, but thinking about what you know about yourself can be a good start.
Only you know yourself best.
It can be valuable to speak to others to learn about their career or get professional advice, but don’t lose sight of what you like to do and your attributes.
Don’t give yourself added pressure by seeking the perfect job.
Sometimes a good starting point can lead to your perfect role!
If you’re graduating soon, think about what broader work experience could help you reach your end goal.
You can always benefit from getting related experience.
Changing roles and career later on is an option.
Book an appointment with one of our Careers Consultants or attend an event.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/get-career-experience:
We’re committed to providing the highest-quality student experience to develop your employability and confidence .
Whether it's through an internship , work experience, volunteering or even setting up your own business, we’ll provide you with the opportunities you need to reach your full potential.
Your work experience and internship activities can also count towards your My Stirling Award .
If you’d like to gain real-life experience within your chosen field, an internship or work experience is the perfect place to start.
Internships provide you with a major CV boost, invaluable networking opportunities and a chance to develop the transferable skills that employers want.
It’s a great way to develop practical skills ahead of your future career, in a real workplace environment, while being supported by industry professionals.
My internship has given me a good taste of the 9-5 work routine.
It has also given me a head start in my marketing career by providing me with lots of valuable experiences from very early on.
Alexander Bergström, Marketing Internship with Labels4Kids Ltd
Our strong partnerships with national, international and start-up businesses can provide you with a wide range of opportunities to test your learning in real-life situations.
Whether it’s an internship, work experience or a work-based project, you’ll learn new skills and get an idea of which working environment suits you.
I have gained invaluable experience in several areas of a successful, growing company.
I have developed an understanding of what it takes build and maintain professional relationships.
Most importantly, I know what full-time employment involves, a thought which can be quite daunting upon completion of university studies.
Owen Smith, Resource Coordinator internship at YouTrain
Taking part in internships can help you stand out to potential employers.
It gives you a great opportunity to test out a possible career you have in mind.
Phoebe McCulloch explains why clubs and societies offer such good opportunities to gain useful career skills and experiences.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/careers-advice-for-students:
When you graduate from the University of Stirling, you’ll not only leave with a qualification but you’ll also be equipped with the skills that employers are looking for.
Motivated, self-confident and digitally aware, you’ll be ready to make a difference to organisations worldwide.
Our Careers Service is here to help you achieve your career goals, from deciding on your career to making applications and getting your first job.
Our expert staff can support you with practical skills like CV writing and interview practice.
We’ll also help you get to know yourself, your strengths, and your aspirations, so you can stand out to potential employers.
See where to find the Careers Service on campus and discover how they can help you prepare for life after graduation.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/finding-a-job:
Visit TARGETconnect , our careers management and online vacancy service, which allows you as a student or graduate to find out everything our Careers Service has to offer.
Simply log in and personalise your profile so you can:
There are many ways to find graduate level jobs.
In addition to using TARGETconnect , being proactive and speculatively applying for jobs can be successful.
There are also online resources that can help you explore which graduate role might suit you, such as TARGETjobs and Prospects .
Online networking and meeting employers at careers fairs can be a great way to develop your contacts and discover any 'hidden jobs'.
Find out more about networking along with setting up a LinkedIn profile .
We can help with CV and application advice when you’re applying for jobs and have more information available on the Careers Support for Graduates Canvas module.
You can also use TARGETconnect to search for temporary, part-time and vacation work.
It covers a variety of vacancies, including bar work, childcare, retail, administration, data collection, hotel work and much more.
To receive emails about new jobs login to TARGETconnect and select the option to receive email alerts.
For local jobs, websites such as Indeed and S1jobs can also be useful.
Internships are a great opportunity to experience a career path and see if it's right for you before you graduate.
Find out more about our internships and hear about our students' experiences.
Volunteering can be an ideal way to try out your ideal career, before looking for a paid job.
Discover more information on volunteering .
Employers are increasingly looking for graduates who have global experience and can demonstrate intercultural awareness.
As a University of Stirling student or graduate there are many opportunities open to you, whether you wish to study, work, teach or volunteer abroad.
Working or studying abroad can be a life-changing experience that broadens your horizons.
We offer global career opportunities on TARGETconnect , where you can set up email alerts.
Things to consider before working abroad include:
At Stirling we have access to a brilliant resource called GoinGlobal that will make this process a lot more straight forward.
This web site allows you to Spend less time looking for information and more time acting on it with these resources:
It also gives you advice on making applications including CV guidelines and cultural advice for interviewing.
You can access GoinGlobal for free while on our campus.
However, if you are not on campus you can access via Careers on Canvas: working abroad or the resources section on TARGETconnect.
It may be easier to find a job when you're actually in the country, so consider doing research trips before you move permanently.
Other resources to explore include:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/graduate-careers-advice:
Our dedicated Careers Service is here to make sure you can make the most of career opportunities after you leave Stirling.
We’re here to help at any stage of your career.
You may be looking for specific career advice, help with employability skills or to join TARGETconnect , our online vacancy and events system, where you can register to find a job and also sign up for events and appointments.
Individuals, including those who have taken non-degree or non-graduating courses, as well as those who have withdrawn, should register with TARGETconnect once the date of the award is announced.
We offer a range of events and workshops throughout the year, covering a variety of topics.
Many of these are open to Stirling graduates and we encourage you to participate.
TARGETconnect provides jobs listing that are chosen specifically for Stirling students and graduates.
You can search jobs be industry, location and keyword; when you update your preferences you can get tailored vacancy emails.
Our Careers Consultants are experts and are here to help you through your career journey.
They can provide you with individual advice and guidance on everything from personal career planning to interview techniques.
Our skills and learning pathways are a terrific way to develop your skills and knowledge in a particular area.
Each pathway includes a series of resources, such as articles, videos, and exercises.
Examples learning pathways are:
Book an appointment with one of our Careers Consultants.
Not on campus?
Appointments can be online via Teams, and we offer advice, guidance and application checks online.
The Careers Support for Graduates module on Canvas has a wealth of information on exploring options, job hunting, CVs and applications, interviews, postgraduate study and lots more.
We are here throughout your career journey, no matter where it takes you.
It's important for us to know the career destinations of our graduates.
About 15 months after graduation, you’ll be contacted to complete the Graduate Outcomes Survey .
This is a national survey capturing information about what you’ve done since university, and will help future students gain an insight into possible career destinations.
Your responses will also help us to evaluate and promote our courses.
We’ll send you the survey via email, or you may be contacted by phone.
Please ensure that we have your correct contact details after you leave University, via ‘keep in touch’ on the Alumni page .
Follow X and Facebook for the latest information about what's going on in the Careers Service.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/careers-help-for-researchers:
Postgraduate research students and all staff have full access to the range of support available from the Careers Service.
We work closely with our colleagues in the Institute for Advanced Studies to contribute to a programme of support, and regularly run workshops including topics such as Career Options outside of Academia, and CVs for Researchers.
All our Careers Consultants have experience working with researchers and we offer one-to-one appointments every day; these can be booked via TARGETConnect (PGR students should log in with their student details; research staff can register as staff).
All graduates of the University of Stirling have access to the Careers Service for life, so we can support researchers at any stage of their career journey, even long after graduation.
We have developed a mini-site of careers information on Canvas specifically for research staff and students.
You can also browse the other careers pages on the module, and throughout we signpost to relevant information and resources.
Follow us on Facebook and X for the latest information about what's going on in the Careers Service.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/further-study:
Are you considering further study or taking a postgraduate course?
There are many great reasons to do further study, but first think about how much another course will help your future career.
Studying a postgraduate degree can involve significant time and financial commitments.
Scholarships are available for Scottish students wishing to study for a Masters in the United States.
Search for postgraduate taught courses at the University of Stirling .
Find out about postgraduate funding opportunities at Stirling .
There's also a wide range of postgraduate funding opportunities open to students studying elsewhere in the UK and worldwide.
See these useful resources:
If you’re a non-European Economic Area (EEA) national looking to undertake UK-based postgraduate study, you must apply to the Home Office to extend your 'leave to remain' here.
See the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) for more information.
We offer an impartial advisory service and won’t recommend doing a course that is not in your best interests.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/equality-in-employment:
The Equality Act 2010 protects you as a jobseeker and employee from discrimination on the basis of characteristics including; age, gender, disability, marriage and civil partnership, gender reassignment, ethnicity, religion and beliefs, pregnancy and maternity, or sexual orientation.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission is the regulatory body responsible for enforcing the Act, as well as promoting and monitoring human rights.
At the University of Stirling we celebrate and encourage diversity.
Your background is an important part of who you are.
Most graduate employers embrace equal opportunities and diversity in the workplace.
They recognise that employees from different backgrounds bring unique knowledge, skills and experience to their organisation.
Here you’ll find useful resources covering equality and diversity in the workplace:
It’s illegal for an employer to discriminate against you because of your ethnicity.
This includes any form of harassment or victimisation on the basis of your race.
Useful resources and schemes for ethnic minority students:
The Equality Act 2010 considers someone disabled if they have a physical or mental impairment that has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on their ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
If you’re a disabled employee, your employer has a duty to make 'reasonable adjustments' to reduce or remove obstacles in the workplace.
This is to ensure that you’re able to carry out your duties without being disadvantaged.
Useful resources:
An employer cannot discriminate based on your age, unless they can ‘objectively justify’ a reason for doing so.
It’s illegal for an employer to ask for your date of birth on any job application.
However if you feel your age may be having an influence on the pursuit of your career goals, these resources could be useful:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/service-level-agreement:
This Statement of Service outlines the standard of service you can expect as a client of the Careers Service at the University of Stirling.
It includes our overall mission as well as details of what we can offer you, and what we expect of you as a user of the service.
We are your professional careers experts who provide reliable and relevant careers education, information, advice and guidance to all Stirling students and graduates to empower you to explore career options, develop career skills, and make informed career decisions for a meaningful and fulfilling future
You can use the Careers Service if you are:
The Careers Service offers the following services to full-time and part-time undergraduate and postgraduate students at the University of Stirling:
Information
Advice and guidance
Range of events
Part-time, volunteering, internship and graduate opportunities
As a Stirling graduate, you have life-long support from the Careers Service .
From refining your CV, to interview practice and much more, our Careers Consultants are here for you no matter what stage of your professional journey you’re at.
See the Careers support for graduates .
The Careers Support for Graduates Canvas site is a great source of information for all careers-related topics.
This resource is available to all graduates and provides information on finding opportunities, creating applications, further study, going abroad, and more.
Graduates should register with stirling.targetconnect.net/ .
Many of the services we offer to students and graduates – including confidential one-to-one advice, and attending events - are available to Staff of the University of Stirling.
To access our services, you will need to register with our management system stirling.targetconnect.net .
We depend on you to help us provide the most effective Careers Service possible.
You can help us by:
We comply with all relevant professional codes including those outlined below:
Feedback
The Careers Service values your feedback and suggestions.
You can provide feedback in person, by email ( ask@stir.ac.uk ), by phone, through social media or via TARGETconnect .
We may ask for more formal feedback, for example via surveys and questionnaires, on our range of activities including events and appointments.
Complaints
If something goes wrong or you are dissatisfied with our service, please tell us via the methods above or use the University’s Complaints Procedure
Student Services Hub, Campus Central University of Stirling FK9 4LA
Tel: 01786 466022 Email: ask@stir.ac.uk TARGETconnect: stirling.targetconnect.net
We aim to respond to emails within five working days.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/careers/professional-skills-academy:
The Professional Skills Academy is an exclusive programme, delivered via our Canvas VLE, providing all students with opportunities to learn and develop their skills through a variety of different activities and in different environments, all whilst linking professional development to the modern workplace.
Designed with future careers in mind, it aims to support students to get the most out of their time at the University of Stirling, enabling them to build and develop professional and personal skills needed for the modern workplace and help them stand out from the crowd.
Built on three core pillars, the Professional Skills Academy brings all our personal and professional development opportunities together in one place.
Students can learn their way, anytime, anywhere, through a mix of videos, podcasts, articles, and interactive activities, both online and in person.
Our three core pillars are:
Students can choose across our activities, completing as many as you like to build their portfolio of skills development:
Covering eleven professional skills from Critical Thinking to Communication, Bitesize Learning brings together a variety of learning resources all in manageable chunks that students can dip in and out of to suit their own individual and preferred learning style.
Explore our growing catalogue of professional skills digital badges which not only develop skills but also industry experience as these have been developed with links to real workplace activities.
Once complete, students can showcase your achievements with a university approved digital badge.
With our Employer Insights, students will gain valuable knowledge about a variety of industries, connect with top employers through in-person and online events, and take part in immersive business simulations that bring the real-world workplace to life.
This is where education meets experience!
Stirling students can make a vital contribution to your business.
The University has a long and successful relationship with businesses of all sizes who have helped to give our students experience in the workplace, while benefitting from their talent and enthusiasm.
If you'd like to find out more about how your organisation can be part of the Professional Skills Academy, please get in touch.
Contact the Work-based Learning team
Start your development journey today with the Professional Skills Academy and be an industry-ready graduate after your time studying at Stirling.
Students can access the Professional Skills Academy via Canvas.
If you have any questions about the Professional Skills Academy, please get in touch.
Connect with University of Stirling Work-Based Learning and Employer Engagement on LinkedIn.
We can help employers recruit our students and graduates and facilitate projects and placements.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/art-and-culture:
Stirling was Scotland's only city longlisted for UK City of Culture 2025, and is a thriving cultural hub with galleries, museums, cinemas and even some filming locations.
You don't need to venture outside the campus for your entertainment fix.
University of Stirling students can access the best arts, comedy and theatre at the Macrobert Arts Centre right here on campus.
Our community arts venue showcases the latest arthouse and mainstream cinema, live performances and art exhibitions.
There's even more to discover with the art collection at Pathfoot Building , which has an ever-changing programme of art exhibitions.
Or go for a walk around the campus and admire the sculptures dotted around our beautiful grounds.
See more about the culture on campus .
Hollywood hotspot
Fancy recreating iconic scenes you've seen on the silver screen?
The University of Stirling and the surrounding area has starred in major Hollywood blockbusters and popular television series, including Outlander, Monty Python and Braveheart.
In Stirling city, you'll find a multiplex cinema and live arts venues like The Albert Halls and the Tolbooth.
Over the centuries, the Tolbooth building has served as a courthouse, a jail and even the Scottish Parliament during James VI's reign.
Now it's a thriving centre for live theatre, music and comedy.
The Smith Art Gallery and Museum is a must-visit for history fans.
It's the best place to learn about the local area's history through the museum's fascinating collection, which includes the oldest curling stone in the world.
Image credit: David Monteith Hodge
Be here.
Live here.
Study here.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/food-and-drink:
Fancy a bite to eat?
Stirling and the surrounding area is full of delicious foodie options.
In the Stirling city centre, you will find lots of familiar brands and nationwide chains, including Nando's, Black Rooster and Monterey Jack's.
Or you can catch up over a coffee at Caffè Nero, Toast, Costa or Cisco's.
Take a stroll down Henderson Street in nearby Bridge of Allan and take your pick from a bunch of cosy and friendly cafés, including Friend of Mine , The Hideaway Café and Ciao .
Make sure you check out The Allanwater Café , which is famous for its fish and chips.
No matter what you're craving, whether it be Chinese, Italian or Indian, you will find it here.
Stirling also has many lively bars and pubs, ideal for catching up with friends between your studies.
Stirling's traditional Scottish pubs offer a warm welcome with open fires, real ale and craft beer.
Closer to campus, Bridge of Allan's pubs and bars are a vibrant mix of old and new, ranging from contemporary bars to beer gardens.
The town also boasts a microbrewery, where you can treat yourself to a tour.
Hungry for more?
Then jump on a train and explore even more mouthwatering foodie experiences in Scotland's central belt.
From bustling street food markets to world-famous whisky distilleries, there's something to satisfy every craving.
Budget-friendly bites
Many restaurants and bars offer special discounts for students.
Keep your eyes peeled for tasty deals!
Image credit: Visit Scotland / Kenny Lam
Our city is a thriving cultural hub with galleries, theatres and more.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/heritage:
Stirling is full of character and steeped in history.
It's the best-preserved medieval city in Scotland and where our country's Wars of Independence were fought and won.
Scotland's survival as a nation was guaranteed after the battle of Bannockburn in 1314, near to the city.
The Bannockburn Heritage Centre is close to the battle site, where you can learn more about Robert the Bruce and his historic defeat of the English army.
The Centre brings the battle to life through the use of interactive technology and 3D landscapes.
Our sprawling castle is one of Scotland’s grandest – befitting the childhood home of Mary Queen of Scots.
From its hill-top viewpoint, you can take in the fantastic scenery of the surrounding area and the city.
It’s also where the world’s oldest football was discovered.
Stirling is the former capital of Scotland and still bears scars from its role in military campaigns that changed the course of Britain.
Many iconic figures in Scotland's history, such as Robert Burns and John Knox, made appearances in the Old Town.
Stirling has many historically significant buildings for such a compact city.
For example, the 'Church of the Holy Rude', founded in 1129, is the second oldest building in Stirling after the castle and has been a parish church for 600 years.
Other than Westminster Abbey, it's the only British church still in daily use to have held a royal coronation – King James VI's coronation in 1567.
The 220ft high National Wallace Monument offers views over the Forth Valley that you don’t want to miss.
This Gothic monument commemorates William (Braveheart) Wallace.
It’s a mere 246 steps to the top!
Image credit: Kenny Lam / Visit Scotland
Image credit: John McPake

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/music-and-nightlife:
Stirling has a buzzing music and nightlife scene.
The city is full of unique venues, pubs, and clubs, many of which throw special events and offer deals especially for students.
Slanj-a-va is a popular student bar in Stirling, and Wetherspoons is a firm favourite for a budget-friendly pint.
Meanwhile.
music fans can get their gig fix with regular live music nights at our very own Student's Union , The Macrobert Arts Centre or at The Tolbooth in Stirling town centre.
If that's not enough for you, don't forget that Scotland's two largest and most cosmopolitan cities are less than an hour away.
Some of the country's largest and most iconic venues, like the SECC Hydro, Usher Hall, The Barrowlands and O2 Academy are all within easy reach.
Image credit: Ian Georgeson for Festivals Edinburgh

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/parks-and-countryside:
Located in the heart of Scotland and gateway to the Highlands, Stirling is the perfect starting point to explore the great outdoors.
Don't let its city status fool you - Stirling is full of beautiful green space, with lots of gardens and parks to discover.
And even more breathtaking scenery is just a short car or train ride away.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/shopping:
Stirling has everything you could hope for in a premier shopping destination.
The city's historic Victorian arcade, bustling high street and Thistles Shopping Centre boast all the biggest brands and quirky independent shops.
The Thistles has an unrivalled selection of over 90 high street and speciality stores, while Stirling's Victorian Arcade in the historic Old Town has unique independent boutiques.
For the ultimate shopping experience, you can't go wrong with Stirling's mix of independent shops and top brands.
Meanwhile, just a short bus ride from the city and a 25-minute walk from campus, Bridge of Allan is a fantastic shopping destination in its own right with lots of independent stores and eateries.
Its lively high street is full of boutiques, grocery stores and a plentiful array of gift shops to pick up the perfect present.
And don't forget that Scotland's top shopping destinations, including Glasgow's 'Style Mile' and Edinburgh's St James Quarter, are just a short train ride away.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/student-life/city-of-stirling/sport:
Whether you love watching it or taking part yourself, Stirling is a dream destination for sports fans.
The University of Stirling is Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence , so naturally our city boasts an impressive roster of sports teams and plenty of fun things to do.
Whether you prefer cheering on your favourite team for the sidelines, scoring that hole-in-one on the golf course or living out your "Frozen" fantasy on the ice rink, the City of Stirling and the surrounding area has you covered.
Stirling's top teams
Image credit: Kenny Lam / VisitScotland

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/education-primary:
Our pioneering approach of studying education with a specialist subject gives you the time to excel and become a primary teacher.
General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS)
Choose a Bachelor of Education (Primary) at the University of Stirling, and we’ll equip you with the necessary knowledge and skills to start a career in one of the most rewarding professions.
We’ll prepare you to teach across the whole curriculum and primary age range, and also enable you to develop a specialism in a particular area.
You can choose from these subject specialisms:
You’ll be taught by world-leading academics and outstanding teachers who have strong partnerships with local schools.
This ensures you can access cutting-edge practice and research throughout your primary teaching degree.
Our pioneering approach of studying education with a subject specialism, gives you the time to excel in teaching, critically reflect and grow in confidence.
In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, our Educational research ranked third highest in Scotland for quality of research outputs with 100% of our research impact and environment in Education classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
We’re accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS), meaning that on graduation you can apply for provisional registration as a primary teacher.
For all specialisms except Early Years
SQA Highers ABBB
GCE A-levels BBB
IB Diploma 30 points
BTEC (Level 3) DDM
Early Years specialism
SQA Highers AAAB
IB Diploma 32 points
The following English and Mathematics entry requirements apply for all specialisms:
There are additional requirements for some of our specialisms:
Specialism
Additional requirements
Inclusive Practice
No additional requirements.
Literacy
Numeracy
To include SQA Higher (B), A-level (B) or equivalent in Mathematics.
Early Years
Environment
To include an SQA Higher (B), A-level (B) or equivalent in Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Mathematics or Physics.
Modern Languages
To include an SQA Higher (B), A-level (B) or equivalent in one of French or Spanish.
Essential subjects must have been taken within the last five years to ensure your required subject knowledge is current.
Recent work experience can be taken into consideration in place of a formal qualification.
Widening access students Widening access students may be eligible for an adjusted offer of entry.
To find out if this applies to you go to our widening access pages .
Scottish HNC/HND Year one minimum entry - Bs in graded units.
Access courses University of Stirling access course - for mature students only.
You must pass the course with 50% or above.
SWAP access course - for mature students only.
Email our Admissions Team for advice about other access courses.
Foundation Apprenticeships Considered to be equivalent to 1 Higher at Grade B
Essential subjects As listed for Year 1 entry.
English, Welsh and Northern Irish HNC/HND Merits and Distinctions
English, Welsh and Northern Irish access courses Access to Higher Education - 60 credits, minimum 45 at QCF Level 3, pass at 60% or above.
View the entry requirements for your country
Advanced entry is not available for this course.
Entry to our teaching degree course is provisional until the end of Year 1, and subject to an interview and a criminal record PVG (Protecting Vulnerable Groups) check.
If English is not your first language you must have one of the following qualifications as evidence of your English language skills:
See our information on English language requirements for more details on the language tests we accept and options to waive these requirements.
Pre-sessional English language courses
If you need to improve your English language skills before you enter this course, University of Stirling International Study Centre offers a range of English language courses.
These intensive and flexible courses are designed to improve your English ability for entry to this degree.
Find out more about our pre-sessional English language courses
You’ll follow a course of eight semesters (four years).
This will lead to an Honours degree in Professional Education (Primary).
Alternatively, seven semesters (three and a half years) lead either to a General degree or to a Bachelors degree in Professional Education.
General degree students may only be able to qualify in one teaching subject.
You’ll develop your understanding of Education theory and practice alongside your subject specialism in Semesters 1-2.
You’ll also undertake a self-organised placement in a nursery for primary students.
In Semesters 3-4, you’ll continue to study Education alongside your subject specialism.
Your knowledge and understanding of literacy and numeracy will develop, along with a range of teaching skills, before undertaking a six-week school placement.
In Semesters 5-6, you’ll continue to develop your understanding of teaching literacy and numeracy.
You will explore contemporary issues in primary education such as languages, science and learning for sustainability.
To help you link theory and practice you will take a placement over 11 weeks (three days a week, Mon to Wed) and return to the University for two days to undertake an advanced education module with a focus on differences, identities and inclusion.
You’ll also take a module that focuses on pedagogy, policy and practice in relation to your subject specialism.
Semester 7 includes a 10-week school placement.
In Semester 8, you’ll complete an Enquiry into Practice that’s closely related to your placement, and undertake an independent study of your choice, linked to your chosen specialism.
Our course is taught through seminars, lectures and workshops.
You’ll also have the opportunity to undertake school placements to gain practical teaching experience.
Students who choose to study the Environment subject specialism will undertake fieldwork, participate in field trips and work on campus with Grounds for Learning and local school groups.
Assessment is by continuous assessment.
School experience placements are supported by school-based teachers and through tutor engagement.
There are no examinations in Primary Education.
School work placements are an integral part of this course, culminating in a 10 week school experience where you can further draw on your specialism area.
If you’re taking a Bachelor of Education with specialism in Modern Languages, we’ll encourage you to undertake a non-assessed optional work placement abroad for one year between Semesters 4 and 5 to improve your language skills.
Find out more about study abroad options .
Brian Johnston +44 (0)1786 477006 brian.johnston@stir.ac.uk
Scottish students
This fee is set by the Scottish Government and is subject to change.
Although you’re liable for annual tuition fees, if you are domiciled in Scotland you can apply to the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) to have your tuition fees paid by the Scottish Government on your behalf.
You will be charged the annual tuition fee each year when you enrol.
If you need to take additional modules or resit modules, you will be liable for an additional fee.
For more information on courses invoiced on an annual fee basis, please read our tuition fee policy .
Students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland
This tuition fee may be subject to change depending on guidance provided by the UK Government.
You can apply for financial assistance, including a loan to cover the full cost of your tuition fees, from your relevant funding body.
Students from the Republic of Ireland are eligible for a tuition fee loan of up to £9,535 from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) .
We also offer additional funding – such as our Honours Year Scholarship – for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland.
See our funding opportunities section below for more information.
You will be charged the annual fee each year when you enrol.
For more information on courses invoiced on an annual fee basis, please read our tuition fee policy and terms and conditions .
International students (including EU)
Eligible students will automatically receive a scholarship worth between £8,000-£30,000 over the duration of your course.
See our range of generous scholarships for international undergraduate students.
Your fees will be held at the same level throughout your course.
Learn more about additional fees .
See what funding opportunities and loans are available to help you with tuition and living costs.
Students from Scotland
Find funding opportunities for Scottish students .
Eligible students will automatically receive our Undergraduate Welcome Scholarship , Undergraduate Merit Scholarship , and our Honours Year Scholarship , which are worth between £1,000 and £9,250.
Eligible international students will automatically receive a scholarship worth between £8,000-£30,000 over the duration of your course.
Find funding opportunities for international students .
If you’re domiciled in the UK, you can typically apply to your relevant funding body for help with living costs.
This usually takes the form of student loans, grants or bursaries, and the amount awarded depends upon your personal circumstances and household income.
International (including EU) students won’t normally be able to claim living support through SAAS or other UK public funding bodies.
You should contact the relevant authority in your country to find out if you’re eligible to receive support.
Find out about the cost of living for students at Stirling.
We aim to be as flexible as possible, and offer a wide range of payment methods - including the option to pay fees by instalments.
Learn more about how to pay .
The majority of our graduates enter the Scottish Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS) , which guarantees you employment for one year as a newly qualified teacher in a Scottish Local Authority school.
Alternatively, you may choose to continue your education with a postgraduate degree or undertake doctoral research, leading to the award of a PhD.
Participation in the Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS) is not compulsory, and some students may choose to follow the alternative Flexible Route – which is less structured and may better suit their personal circumstances.
Students from Scotland, the rest of the UK and the Republic of Ireland who are studying at a Scottish Higher Education Institution are eligible to join the TIS.
Students from other countries are ineligible for the TIS scheme but can follow the Flexible Route to complete probationary service if they plan to teach in Scotland following their studies.
Read the Scottish Government’s detailed guidance regarding students and the Teacher Induction Scheme.
We work in close partnership with Local Authorities, schools, Education Scotland and GTCS to ensure we support you throughout your studies, so you can become an effective educator.
A number of teachers are seconded to us from local schools to provide practical and up-to-date experience and knowledge.
Discover Uni provides official data on each university's undergraduate courses, including satisfaction scores from the National Student Survey, details of graduate jobs and salaries, and other key information for prospective students.
This course is not available as a combined degree.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/education-secondary:
Our pioneering approach to professional education and our outstanding teachers gives you time to develop as a secondary school teacher.
Choose our BA (Hons) / BSc (Hons) Education (Secondary) degree and learn from world-leading academics and outstanding teachers who have strong partnerships with local schools.
This gives you access to cutting-edge practice and research throughout your secondary teaching degree.
Our pioneering approach to professional education gives you time to develop as a secondary school teacher.
With our four year teaching degree, you’ll be able to grow in confidence and critically reflect on your skills.
The course gives you a more personalised learning experience than the Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) route of only one year.
You'll gain a research-informed degree, making you well equipped to enter the world of secondary education from the day you graduate.
In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 100% of our research impact and environment in Education was classed as world leading or internationally excellent.
We also deliver chemistry and physics teaching courses in collaboration with Forth Valley College.
We’re accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS), which means that you can apply for provisional registration as a secondary teacher as soon as you graduate.
There is a preference for a Higher or A Level in the subjects(s) you wish to teach.
There are additional requirements for some subjects:
Additional essential subjects
BA (Hons) Professional Education (Secondary) with Chemistry BA (Hons) Professional Education (Secondary) with Physics
These courses are delivered in collaboration with Forth Valley College.
See the entry requirements for our science teaching courses .
Widening access students may be eligible for an adjusted offer of entry.
Care-experienced applicants will be guaranteed an offer of a place if they meet the minimum entry requirements.
Wherever possible, this will be for the specific course applied for, but this may not always be possible on courses with high demand and limited places, or where intake numbers are strictly controlled by the Scottish Government, for example, Secondary Education with Physical Education.
Essential subjects As listed in Year 1 entry requirements.
Entry to the course is also subject to an interview and a criminal record PVG (Protecting Vulnerable Groups) check.
Application procedure Entry to this degree is highly competitive.
Applications received after 15 January won’t normally be considered.
It is important that applicants for education programmes are able to show their suitability for the programme and for the teaching profession.
The main focus of this programme is on teaching children and through your personal statement you should be able to demonstrate an aptitude for this.
You should demonstrate knowledge of the Curriculum for Excellence, relevant work experience, and explaining your understanding of the teacher's role.
Physical Education
There will be an interview process for the Physical Education programme.
We interview 72 candidates each year and if selected for interview you will be taking part in a number of activities during the interview day.
These interviews are on fixed dates that applicants would be expected to make themselves available for.
The interview consists of the following:
Languages
There are specific professional residence requirements and guidance that apply to Education programmes in order for students to fulfil GTC requirements, as well as those set by the Faculty of Social Sciences at Stirling.
All Education students should consult with staff in Education at Stirling for full details of these.
Secondary Education students who do not undertake an assistantship must discuss the professional implications with staff in Education as well as consulting French/Spanish Course Director/s in order to ensure that they fulfil our minimum language residence requirement.
You’ll follow a course of eight semesters (four years), to gain an Honours degree in Professional Education (Secondary).
Alternatively, seven semesters (three and a half years) leads to either a General degree or to a Bachelors degree in Professional Education.
You’ll take the following core modules:
You can take part in serial days during year 1.
These will be organised by the university and will involve spending time in school.
You’ll take a range of core and advanced modules in Education, including a range of teaching skills in your chosen subjects.
You’ll also go on two school placements, one lasting six weeks and one lasting 10 weeks (with three days in school and two at university), between Semesters 3-4 and 5-6.
Physical Education students will take part in an additional four-week placement.
Semester 7 includes a 10-12 week placement, as well as supplementary taught classes.
In Semester 8 you’ll complete an Enquiry into Practice that’s closely related to your placement, as well as doing further study in your teaching subject.
Our Secondary Education degree is taught through seminars, lectures and workshops.
You’ll also have the opportunity to go on school placements to get practical teaching experience.
Fieldwork and learning for sustainability are embedded within the Geography course at Stirling.
Students will develop skills and confidence through participation in field trips and work on campus with Grounds for Learning and local school groups.
Students gain first-hand experience of the cognitive benefits of fieldwork as well as the equally important social, emotional and health benefits.
School experience placements are supported by school-based teachers and University of Stirling tutors.
There are no examinations in Education.
School work placements are an integral part of this course, culminating in a 10-12 week secondary school experience where you can teach your chosen subjects.
If you intend to teach Modern Languages in a school after you graduate, you must fulfil residence requirements in a country where that language is spoken.
For eligible students, this means applying for an English Language Assistantship via the externally-administered British Council scheme.
Students should note that this is a competitive scheme and that the British Council is responsible for its eligibility criteria.
It is the student’s responsibility to check these criteria (via the British Council website ) and to discuss any potential problems both with staff in Education and with the French/Spanish Programme Director.
Students should note that taking two languages from Beginners' level where those languages are core to the programme is pedagogically inadvisable.
Any student wishing to go down that route will need the written permission of both the French and Spanish Programme Directors or their appointed representative before being allowed to do so.
If your specialism covers other subjects, you’ll also have the option of studying abroad for a semester.
Course
2025-26
2026-27
Professional Education (Secondary) and:
* This tuition fee is set by the Scottish Government and may be subject to change.
** This tuition fee may be subject to change depending on guidance provided by the UK Government.
Professional Education (Secondary) can also be combined with Chemistry or Physics .
For all students
If you need to take additional modules or resit modules, you’ll be liable for an additional fee.
Although you’re liable for annual tuition fees, students domiciled in Scotland will be able to apply to the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) to have tuition fees paid by the Scottish government on their behalf.
If you’re unsure of your fee status, you can check your eligibility online.
We also offer additional funding – such as our Honours Year Scholarship – for students from England, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
See our funding opportunities below for more information.
International (including EU) students
The majority of our Secondary Education graduates enter the Scottish Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS) , which guarantees you employment for one year as a newly qualified teacher in a Scottish Local Authority school.
Alternatively, you may choose to continue your education with a postgraduate degree, or carry out doctoral research, leading to the award of a PhD.
We work in close partnership with Local Authorities, schools, Education Scotland and GTCS.
This helps to ensure we support you throughout your studies, so you can become an effective educator.
Over the past several years we have noticed that the students and probationer teachers coming from the University of Stirling are better and better prepared for their role as teachers.
You clearly have an excellent course with excellent lecturers in place.
Deputy Head Teacher Pupil Support, Alloa Academy
Are you interested in more than one of our courses?
You might not have to choose between them.
Here at Stirling, we believe in choice and offer more than 170 course combinations.
For a combined honours degree where the two subjects have different entry requirements, you will usually be asked to meet the higher entry requirement.
Find out more about degree flexibility and how you can take combined courses .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/psychology:
Our innovative and award-winning psychology course will give you the edge and the skills for your career.
British Psychological Society
Why do we behave the way we do, and what drives our behaviour?
If you’re interested in the mind, and in human (as well as animal) behaviour, then Psychology is for you.
Our award-winning Psychology course sits at the cutting edge of inter-disciplinary scientific research.
We focus on important societal problems such as detection of criminals and improvement of health outcomes.
After introducing Psychology to you as a biological and social science, we’ll cover topics as diverse as brain functioning, child development, and social behaviour.
You’ll get hands-on experience designing and conducting experiments, working in high-end specialist labs and in our on-site kindergarten , the only such facility in the UK.
You’ll develop a deep knowledge and understanding of mind and behaviour, coupled with excellent practical skills, all of which will offer you a wide and diverse choice of careers.
The course is delivered by what the British Psychological Society (BPS) commended as a proactive, approachable and engaged programme team.
The BPS also recognised our innovative, student-led teaching initiatives, which help students’ personal and professional development, and our personalised system of student support and feedback, which helps to nurture a close-knit academic community.
The Psychology single honours and combined honours degree courses are accredited with the British Psychological Society.
They confer eligibility for Graduate Basis for Registration, provided the minimum standard of a second-class honours is achieved.
The Vicki Bruce Prize: A prize of £100 is awarded to the Psychology student with the best final year project.
The British Psychological Society Undergraduate Award: This prize is awarded to the Psychology student with the highest overall grade.
The prize is free membership of the BPS for one year, a copy of the Society’s Book of the Year and a certificate.
The Ivana Markova Prize: A prize of £100 is awarded to a Psychology Final Year student for outstanding wider achievement.
The Phyllis Lee Prize: A prize of £100 is awarded to the best combined Honours Psychology Final Year student.
The Peter McEwen Prize: A prize of £100 is awarded to the best Single Honours Psychology Final Year student.
The McCall/Whittaker Prize: A prize of £100 is awarded to the Psychology student for recognition of outstanding demonstration of Psychologically Literate Citizenship.
Research Based Learning Prize for Outstanding Demonstration of Integrating Research into Learning: a prize of £200 is awarded by the Faculty.
SQA Highers AABB
IB Diploma 28 points
SQA Advanced Highers ABB
GCE A-levels ABB
Essential subjects To include Psychology
Year 2 entry Entry into Year 2 may be possible depending on your HNC/HND course.
To find out more go to our articulation pages .
Other qualifications Advanced entry may be possible depending on your qualifications.
For more information, contact our Admissions Team at admissions@stir.ac.uk .
If you don't currently meet our academic requirements, University of Stirling International Study Centre offers a variety of preparation programmes that can earn you the qualifications and skills you need to progress onto some of our courses.
Explore University of Stirling International Study Centre to see the routes available.
We focus on important societal problems, such as detection of criminals and improvement of health outcomes, so our degree is relevant to real-life issues.
We cover topics as diverse as brain functioning, development and social behaviour, ensuring you develop a deep knowledge and understanding of mind and behaviour.
Semesters 1-2 will include an introduction to Psychology as the scientific study of mind and behaviour.
In Semesters 3 and 4, the taught modules are designed to emphasise the links between different parts of the subject.
A module on The Social Mind explores the psychology of human and non-human communication; a module on the Brain and Behaviour explores abnormal psychology from the perspectives of Neuroscience and Clinical Psychology.
Also included in Semesters 3 and 4 is an introduction to Psychological Research Methods.
In Semesters 5-8, you’ll take advanced modules in all of the core areas.
Your final year will focus on an individual research project and you’ll be doing cutting-edge research, supervised by an academic mentor.
You can choose from a wide variety of topics that interest you and build your employability skills for the job market.
There are also opportunities for placements with prospective employers, in our research labs, and for engaging in student-led teaching.
Psychology at Stirling is internationally renowned for our high-quality research and this feeds into our teaching.
Our modules will teach you how research furthers our understanding of mind and behaviour.
The essential text for Year 1 of the course, is:
Recommended/non-essential reading to support written assessments (also used in 3rd and 4th semester psychology modules):
Our research-led teaching is at the core of your learning as our staff conduct world-leading research.
Our teaching makes use of both our campus-based teaching facilities and online learning environment.
Everything you learn will reflect the latest thinking and developments in Psychology.
Our teaching is delivered using lectures, workshops, small discussion groups and practical sessions such as laboratory work or field work.
Some students have the opportunity to undertake fieldwork as part of their final year project options.
For example, students studying animal behaviour may visit the Blair Drummond Safari Park or Edinburgh Zoo (travel costs may be incurred).
Modules on the course are assessed through a combination of coursework and examinations.
Assessment types include essays, individual practical reports, group practical reports, oral presentations, poster presentations and popular science articles.
A typical 20 credit psychology module will involve between 30-50 hours of contact time (lectures, seminars, practicals etc).
You might be expected to spend 40-50 hours working on assessments (essays, practical reports, exams), and around 100 hours studying independently.
In Semester 8 you’ll have the opportunity to apply for a Psychology placement.
Successful applicants undertake a 50-hour placement with a host organisation.
You’ll be assigned a mentor in the organisation who’ll agree the schedule for completion of the placement and discuss the precise roles, responsibilities and expectations of both the student and mentor during the placement.
Support is provided by a series of workshops and through review meetings and feedback from the placement coordinator or module coordinator.
Our Careers Service can help you secure placements and offer the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
Psychology at Stirling offers a wide variety of exchange opportunities during Year 3 of the degree course.
We have established links with universities in North America and Australia, allowing students to continue their studies while gaining valuable experience of different cultures and education systems.
Previous student destinations have included universities and institutions in Australia, Czech Republic, Canada, Hong Kong, USA and Malta.
Find out more about studying abroad .
+44 01786 467640
psych-enquiries@stir.ac.uk
The knowledge and skills you’ll get from our Psychology degree will offer you a wide and diverse choice of careers.
Engagement with potential employers, work-related learning and the dissertation project in your final year will develop your professional skills.
In studying psychology you’ll develop key skills that are highly valued by employers, such as interpersonal and communication skills, numeracy and computer literacy, presentation skills, time management and critical thinking.
We have links with many local businesses and organisations in both the public and private sectors who have provided placement opportunities for our students in areas such as education, social care, healthcare and counselling.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/business-law:
Study a range of subjects reflecting the importance of law in all areas of society and with an emphasis on looking at the law associated with business in Scotland and the UK.
Business is at the heart of society and everyday life.
This degree in Business Law affords you a chance to study a range of subjects reflecting the importance of law in all areas of society and with an emphasis on looking at the law associated with business in Scotland the UK.
The course enables you to understand in more depth how law interacts with society.
You will develop even further the intellectual skills needed for what is a demanding yet rewarding subject.
These include autonomy, determination, intellectual curiosity, clear thinking and concise expression.
All are highly valuable, whatever career you pursue.
Although the LLB is the degree to pursue if you wish to join the legal profession, the BA Business Law offers a strong in-depth knowledge of the law, enhancing many personal and intellectual skills to allow you to enter many different areas of employment.
In the first two years you will focus on the law of Scotland and the UK in Public Law and Commercial Law, as well as the law of Scotland in the law of obligations and criminal law.
The University’s modular system also allows you to dip into other areas of study for your first two years, such as languages, management, economics, criminology, psychology, politics, the environment and much more before concentrating on a wide range of law honours modules in 3rd and 4th year.
This gives our BA students the great advantage of a diverse and varied education and the ability to place legal studies in a wider social or business context.
Access courses Access courses and other UK/EU and international qualifications are also welcomed .
Law at Stirling is committed to widening access to Higher Education.
Explore more details about what you'll study on the BA (Hons) Business Law course.
Most modules in first and second year are taught by way of two one hour lectures per week and one tutorial per fortnight.
Honours modules are often taught through attendance at one two hour seminar per week.
Tutorial questions are discussed with tutors at regular intervals and contain a mix of problem and essay type questions.
You will be encouraged to develop techniques to tackle answering problem questions using the law and ensuring proper citation of the law is given e.g., cases and legislation.
During tutorials you will be encouraged to participate in discussions and work with your classmates to investigate the subject further.
There is an emphasis on writing skills and you will learn to be able to read and write about the law through your degree.
You will be able to develop your research skills and learn how to properly reference and cite the law to support your arguments.
This will culminate in your writing a 10,000 word law dissertation in your final year.
Often, there is presentation work either individually or in a group, assessed or unassessed.
This helps develop communication skills, team working and organisational skills and encourages active learning.
The role of feedback in learning cannot be underestimated so there will be extensive feedback given on all assessed work as well as feedback given by tutors for Practice questions submitted in tutorial, or there can be peer feedback too.
You will be assessed for each module taken throughout your degree.
To cater for all learning types, we have various formats on offer per module throughout your degree such as:
A common format is an essay forming a part of your overall grade with an end of term exam.
In some Honours modules, coursework forms a more significant part of the assessment weighting.
Some areas of the law lend themselves better to one particular format or another.
You will specialise in law but the University’s modular system allows you in addition to dip into other areas of study for your first two years such as languages, management, economics, criminology, psychology, politics, the environment and much more before concentrating on law honours modules in 3rd and 4th year.
Study with the people who have written the books: The law modules have been designed by staff who publish and research in key areas linked to the module.
Develop your research potential with our excellent research staff: the course offers a wide range of Honours options in Years 3 and 4 too and these are taught by staff who are experts in their field.
You will often use their original research in your own research into subjects as diverse as intellectual property law,  environmental law, commercial arbitration, labour law, energy law, competition law, European law and private international law.
There are wide and varied teaching methods used on this Programme from group work, presentations, academic poster presentations as well as the usual lectures and seminar format.
We try to ensure that we have guest speakers and lecturers every semester on relevant topics and we also have annual careers events for our Law students.
The culmination of your Honours degree is the dissertation process in the final year which allows you to get your teeth into a topical subject in law and to develop your own research skills even further.
We have supervised dissertations in a wide range of subjects from banking crises to fathers’ rights concerning child residence to the legality of mandatory Covid-19 vaccinations and all points in between.
There are various Work Placement modules offered across the University available to take as options throughout your degree.
In particular, the Law School offers a Work Placement Module in 3rd and 4th year where you are placed with an employer in the legal field for 30 hours of work experience.
The employers we have worked with in the past include  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, Virgin Money, Standard Life, Scottish Power, Scottish Children’s Reporter, the Equality Council, Glasgow City Council, CAB Grangemouth, CAB Stirling, Central Scotland Regional Equality Council (CSREC), Yeghoya & Jacula (Ontario, Canada), and several legal firms.
Assessment is by way of a presentation and a piece of reflective writing.
The University’s Study Abroad schemes are available in 3rd year.
The opportunities to study abroad are optional.
Students can apply to study at any of our partner universities in various parts of the world including the United States and Canada.
Dr Pontian Okoli, Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467960 pontian.okoli@stir.ac.uk
Our BA(Hons) Business Law degree has helped to prepare graduates for jobs with major organisations like Aviva Insurance, Royal Bank of Scotland, FIFA, the NHS and the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority.
As a non-qualifying law degree, the BA Law is aimed primarily at those not wishing to become practicing lawyers; however, some students who undertake this degree do choose to go on and train to become lawyers after doing the accelerated LLB in Scotland or further training in other legal systems.
We have worked with the following companies for work placement: Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, Virgin Money, Standard Life, Scottish Power, Scottish Children’s Reporter, the Equality Council, Glasgow City Council, CAB Grangemouth, CAB Stirling, Central Scotland Regional Equality Council (CSREC), Yeghoya & Jacula (Ontario, Canada), and several legal firms.
We continue to work with many of these companies.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/business-studies:
Be the difference with a Business Studies degree from the University of Stirling and combine your course with a selection of complementary subjects.
Equip yourself with a rich breadth of knowledge in business and management with our flexible Business Studies course.
When you choose Business Studies at Stirling, you won’t just be stepping into one of the UK's leading business and management institutions – you’ll also open the door to a world of opportunities with the freedom to access subjects from different Faculties across the University and, if you wish, combine your degree with one of a wide variety of subjects.
From Spanish to Sport, Psychology to Law, and Marketing to Accountancy, our flexibility is your strength as you pair your passion with an in-depth grounding in business.
This course will grow your managerial expertise and put foundations in place to ensure you continue developing through your professional life.
You’ll also learn how organisations are structured, and gain insight into what makes them function best.
Speakers from the industry visit regularly to complement our own research-led teaching – giving you real-world and rounded knowledge of business and the tools needed to succeed in it.
The university is accredited by AACSB International .
A prize of £100 is awarded to the graduating student with the best overall academic performance on the BA (Hons) Business Studies course.
Rob Ball was a Professor of Public Service Management and worked at the University of Stirling for many years.
This prize is kindly funded by Professor Ball's family.
IB Diploma 28
IB Diploma 32
SWAP Access course - for mature students only.
Year 2 and Year 3 entry Entry into Year 2 or Year 3 may be possible depending on your HNC/HND course.
If you don’t currently meet our academic requirements, University of Stirling International Study Centre offers a variety of preparation programmes that can earn you the qualifications and skills you need to progress onto some of our courses.
You can complete your Business Studies course as a four-year single honours degree, or combine it with one of a number of different degree subjects.
Your first year will give you a broad grounding in business and management.
You'll cover areas such as the internal and external business environment and the nature of business and markets, the nature and functions of operations, marketing, Human Resource Management (HRM), finance and Information and Communications Technology (ICT), and the importance of competitiveness.
Your second year of study focuses on fundamentals including the nature of organisations, the variety of their management objectives, and the organisation of business.
Years three and four cover international business, entrepreneurship, responsible business and ethics, strategic management and business research methods.
Finally, under academic supervision, you'll complete an individual research project of your choice.
Affiliate memberships of the Chartered Management Institute or The Institute for Consulting (or other relevant Professional bodies) are strongly encouraged.
Please ask the Course Director for information.
Our research-led teaching and close links to the business world shape everything you’ll learn on your Business Studies course.
Teaching is delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops.
In the advanced modules, a special emphasis is placed on the acquisition of skills as well as knowledge, and you’ll give presentations in various formats to help enhance your abilities in up-front communication.
Assessment will be by exams and coursework.
From year two you can apply for a University of  Stirling internship, working for a client organisation which may be anywhere in the world.
Work placements typically last around four weeks over the summer, providing you with vital experience and, sometimes, even job offers.
These are highly desirable and make a great contribution to your CV.
In year three you can apply to study abroad, which is a fantastic opportunity to access universities around the world without paying their often very high fees.
You may find you can take courses we don’t offer in Stirling although they must be consistent with your course of study and be approved by the Course Director.
If you study abroad, you'll pay your travel and living costs.
Dr Carol Marshall , Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467336 carol.marshall@stir.ac.uk
A business degree ensures you’re well placed for a variety of jobs across many different sectors.
Stirling Business School seeks to directly enhance your opportunities through a range of specialist career services, and we’ve been awarded the Small Business Charter in recognition of our active participation in supporting start-ups, small businesses and student entrepreneurship – connections that directly benefit you as you build towards your future.
Find out more about how we prepare you for the world of work .
Our Business Studies graduates have gone on to work in communications, banking, insurance, human resources, information management, advertising, retailing international trade, and research and development.
They are contributing to the performance of a range of private, public and third sector organisations in various countries around the world including Norway, Kenya, Singapore, Australia and the USA.
Recent Stirling graduates have started their careers in some of the following roles:
Graduates who left Stirling up to ten years ago have forged careers in the following positions:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/criminology-social-policy:
Study this degree to learn about the issues surrounding crime and social policy.
Find out why we’re rated 1st in Scotland and top 15 in the UK for Criminology (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Taught by experts in their field, our course is informed by the latest developments in social research.
You’ll discover how to assess the issues surrounding crime and social problems.
We’ll help you answer questions such as: how does society work, how are crime and other social problems addressed in society, and how do different cultures understand these problems?
Our BA (Hons) Criminology and Social Policy degree will enable you to understand a wide range of social issues, including crime and criminal justice, poverty, inequality, discrimination, welfare, race, immigration, disability, addictions, youth and ageing.
We’ll give you the skills to research, analyse and assess the key issues for yourself.
You’ll also benefit from our strong research links with on-campus organisations such as the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research, the Scottish Institute for Policing Research, the Salvation Army Centre for Addiction Services and Research, and the Dementia Centre.
SQA Higher ABBB
GCE A-level BBB
Essential subjects Sociology
In Semesters 1-4, you’ll take the following core modules:
You’ll also take additional modules in any subject in semesters 1-4.
In Semesters 5-8, you’ll take three core modules:
You'll also choose seven advanced option modules across 3rd and 4th year, which could include: Sociology of Childhood; Crimes of the Powerful; Punishment and Society; Social Networks and Social Connections; Understanding Crime Trends; Drugs Crime and Society; Gender, Crime and Justice; Social Policy on the Ground; Home, Housing and Community; Policing and Society; or Disability and Society.
Teaching is delivered through lectures, workshops and small discussion groups.
These may be a mix of campus based and online.
Year 1 modules aim to bridge the gap between school and university study through coursework assessments.
You’ll also receive tuition in both qualitative and quantitative research methods, which is invaluable for your Year 4 dissertation.
All students in our Faculty have a named personal tutor to provide general and academic support throughout the four years of their degree.
Assessment for each module is normally based on a combination of coursework and examinations, for example, one essay (30 percent) and an examination (70 percent).
The final-year dissertation counts for three modules.
Your dissertation gives you the opportunity to put research methods you’ve studied into practice and focus on a particular interest.
Typically, each module consists of two lectures plus one workshop per week.
As a University of Stirling student you’ll have the opportunity to broaden your horizons and study abroad through our well-established connections with several international universities.
Find out more about studying abroad .
Dr Steve Rolfe +44(0) 1786 466322 steve.rolfe@stir.ac.uk
Our Criminology and Social Policy graduates are in demand for a wide range of roles throughout the private, public and voluntary sectors.
Tailored careers advice is also available throughout your time at the University of Stirling.
You’ll benefit from our strong links with other organisations situated on the University of Stirling campus.
These include the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research, The Scottish Institute for Policing Research, and the Salvation Army Centre for Addiction Services and Research.
Criminology and Social Policy is just one of the course combinations available to study at Stirling.
You can also study Criminology or Social Policy in any of these combinations:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/criminology-sociology:
Learn to 'think like a criminologist' alongside the theory of social science.
We’re ranked 1st for Criminology and top 5 for Sociology in Scotland (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
Choose our Criminology and Sociology degree and you’ll benefit from studying two closely related disciplines; with training both in criminology and the theory and methods of sociology.
Learn how to ‘think like a criminologist’ and apply criminology to the context of modern life, social diversity and inequalities in society.
You’ll explore fascinating questions surrounding the criminal justice system, the social contexts of crime, and the relationship between behaviour and punishment.
Why and how do people break the law?
How can the criminal justice system define this, and how do we police, prosecute and punish people?
Studying Sociology will help you to understand how society works.
You’ll learn about the ways in which society shapes individuals and how individuals create society.
And you’ll explore crucial questions about diversity, discrimination and inequality in the 21st century.
Our Criminology and Sociology course reflects the latest developments in social research and is taught by experts in their fields.
All students in our Faculty have a named personal tutor to provide general and academic support throughout the four years of their degree.
Assessment for each module is usually based on a combination of coursework and examinations, for example, one essay (30 percent) and an examination (70 percent).
Typically, each module involves of two lectures plus one workshop per week.
As a Criminology and Sociology graduate, you’ll leave with the critical thinking, analytical and communication skills that are valued by many employers throughout the private, public and voluntary sectors.
Criminology and Sociology is just one of the course combinations available to study at Stirling.
You can also study Criminology or Sociology in any of these combinations:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/digital-media:
This course is currently being withdrawn and is only available for year 3 entry for those with a relevant HND (or equivalent).
As the speed of change in the media continues to accelerate, the demand for graduates able to embrace new technologies and innovative methods of content creation and delivery is also growing.
The University of Stirling’s Digital Media course meets this demand head-on, and is shaped by the same expert teaching and research that has made our media courses among the best in the UK.
The course will provide you with practical training in the tools, applications and possibilities of the digital environment – from the creation of journalistic and multimedia content to its effective use across different platforms.
The overarching aim of the course is to make sure you’re work-ready and equipped with a broad range of digital media skills.
Every business, organisation and media outlet relies on digital communications to share their messages.
With the skills to produce creative digital content that helps them stand out in a saturated market, you’ll be opening the door to a world of exciting opportunities.
Year 1 entry is unavailable, only those with a suitable HND (or equivalent) for year 3 entry will be considered for this course.
This course is only available for advanced entry, so all applicants must have a relevant HND (or equivalent) to start in year 3.
Please contact admissions@stir.ac.uk for more details.
This course is only open to those with a relevant HND (or equivalent) and are looking to gain entry into year 3.
To request an application form please email admissions@stir.ac.uk outlining the qualifications you currently have and/or sitting this year.
This course is only available for advanced entry into year 3, you will join the current students on this course and be taught at the University of Stirling campus for the duration of year 3 and 4.
Throughout your course, you’ll develop specialist skills and knowledge across areas such as TV and audio production, desktop publishing, scripting, writing for the media and web design.
Teaching is delivered in a variety of formats, including lectures and small group sessions designed to help you develop key communication skills and benefit from close collaboration with teaching staff.
You’ll be assessed based on a combination of exams, essay writing, workshop reports and other methods - such as a final-year digital project.
Typically, modules are assessed by a combination of coursework and examination, with the weighting varying depending on the nature of the material taught and the module outcomes specified.
Your degree classification will be based on work done in Year 3 and Year 4.
Student Recruitment – recruitment@stir.ac.uk
We’re rated among the best universities in the UK for media, and many of our graduates have established successful careers in film, media and journalism.
These include working in television and radio industries as journalists, scriptwriters, directors, administrators and technicians.
Some have made careers in the press and publishing or in the arts and cultural industries.
Others are working in advertising, public relations, market research, community media, animation, motion graphics, graphic design and new media.
Digital media courses vary in scope and content, but our programme is designed to make sure you graduate as a well-rounded, highly skilled and digitally literate individual able to work effectively across a range of media platforms.
You’ll not only have the practical skills to create stand-out digital content, but you’ll also understand the ethical, legal and theoretical dimensions of the industry – making you a valuable asset to any organisation that relies on the power and reach of digital media.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/digital-media-communications:
Combine storytelling creativity with digital for a rapidly growing digital media world.
Forge your career in digital media and communications.
This exciting new course will be available for full-time in September 2026.
Full information on the course will be published soon.
In a rapidly growing digital media world, your communication skills are key.
Employers need creative professionals with expertise in digital media and communication.
The global digital media market is expected to grow by 12.8% annually until 2030 (Source: Grand View Research 2023).
Our BA (Hons) in Digital Media and Communications course will meet this demand head-on.
Our teaching is shaped by the latest trends and technologies needed by employers.
This media and communication degree​ will combine storytelling creativity with digital production skills.
We’ll teach you techniques in:
Our focus is on giving you practical skills for the many exciting job opportunities in media and communications.
Use our industry-level equipment and media facilities for radio and television production, including a state of the art newsroom.
Gain experience with our filmmaking society where you can create and produce video content.
Our student-run radio station offers opportunities to develop your skills in audio production and broadcasting
Full information on this course is coming soon.
In the meantime, please contact the Faculty of Arts and Humanities if you have any queries.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/english-studies:
Explore literary masterpieces, hone your own creative writing skills, and learn the history of the English language with our English Studies course.
Texts are all around us – from books and magazines to TV, email and the internet.
The ability to analyse text and language is a skill that employers value, and the tools you learn from studying English will support your career goals.
You can learn more about the power of language and literature with a degree in English from the University of Stirling.
We’re ranked 1st in Scotland (source: National Student Survey 2024).
Our course offers a blend of language analysis, literary studies, and creative writing.
You will:
We offer several unique opportunities to enrich your studies.
You can:
Essential subjects To include English, English Literature or English Language
Advanced entry may be possible depending on your qualifications.
In Semesters 1-2, you'll take compulsory modules: Introduction to English Studies 1: Genres; and Introduction to English Studies 2: Theories and Approaches; plus four additional modules from other disciplines, which could include Linguistics.
In Semester 3 you will study Literary Revolutions, and in Semester 4, you’ll study a choice of core modules including: Writing and History; Writing and Theory; and Writing and Language.
In Semester 5, students choose from several period-based modules, such as: Modernism and Modernity; British Romanticism; Renaissance Literature; The Literature of the Middle Ages; and Victorian Literature and Culture.
Semesters 6 and 7 cover a range of optional modules which may include: Speculative Fiction; Modern Gothic; Return of the Pagan Gods; American Literature; Shakespeare's Theatre; Tragedy; Pen, Print, and Press: Documenting the Eighteenth Century; Talking on Paper: The Essay as Literature; Consuming Dickens in the Twenty-First Century; and Creative Writing.
The final semester will be spent writing your dissertation, supervised by your tutor.
You’ll be taught through a mixture of lectures, seminars, workshops and tutorial groups.
Visiting creative writers, scholars and critics are involved in a lively programme of extra-curricular lectures and readings.
We also host a Royal Literary Fund Fellow, who is on site specifically to give students extra one-to-one support as they develop their essay writing skills.
Assessment takes the form of essays or other assignments written during each semester, with credit sometimes given for oral presentations.
We don’t use exams on our English Studies course, as we feel written course work creates a more productive and personal dialogue between you and your tutor, and is an effective method for fuelling both understanding and expression.
As a University of Stirling student, you’ll have the opportunity to broaden your horizons and study abroad through our well-established connections with several international universities.
Find out more about studying abroad
Dr Angus Vine, Course Director
+44 (0)1786 466206
angus.vine@stir.ac.uk
Our Faculty Employability and Skills Officer and Careers Service ensure you'll be well-prepared for the world of work.
They will help provide the right opportunities to prepare you for your career ahead.
Our industry connections and emphasis on practical skills also ensure you're job-ready upon graduation.
The ability to write clearly and think analytically is valued in a host of professions.
Employers for English graduates can include advertising, marketing, public relations, media, publishing, the NHS, schools, financial institutions, legal firms, and government bodies.
Notable graduates from the University of Stirling's English Studies program include several writers.
These include Iain Banks, Graeme Armstrong, and Harry Josephine Giles.
Other well-known graduates are Alan Bissett, journalist Grace Dent, and Scottish poet laureate Jackie Kay MBE.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/european-languages-international-management:
Combine languages with international management to open a world of career opportunities.
The importance of international business has contributed significantly to the growing economic growth and global integration in the world today.
This involves navigating diverse cultures, markets, and regulations.
By studying one or more European language(s) combined with business.
You will be set for an exciting international career.
Our course will prepare you for careers abroad or in companies that operate worldwide.
Our International Management degree combines language skills with business expertise.
You'll study:
Choose French or Spanish as your main language.
You can add a second language or pick modules in Law, Politics, Accountancy, Finance, or Economics.
This flexibility lets you tailor your degree to fit your career goals.
Participate in our study abroad opportunities in either a Spanish or French speaking country, or both.
We have partners in Spain, Latin America, France, Switzerland, or Canada for your semester abroad.
Essential subjects To apply for a degree with French and Spanish you will require one these languages at Higher or A-level (or equivalent).
Students may not take both French and Spanish at beginners’ level.
You’ll study three subjects throughout your degree.
There are three compulsory pathways, namely a language (either French or Spanish) and a Management pathway that allows you to specialise in Business or Marketing as you progress.
In addition, a third pathway is chosen from one of the following: a second language, Accountancy, Politics, Finance, Law or Economics.
You’ll be taught through a mixture of lectures, seminars, tutorials, small group language classes, computer-based workshops and case studies.
In addition, as part of your language studies, weekly written and spoken language classes taught by our team of native language assistants in French and/or Spanish encourage rapid progress.
Assessment focuses on a variety of skills gained across the modules studied – and ranges from translations to essays, grammar tests, oral exams and presentations (in both English and the appropriate target language).
We use both continuous assessment and final examinations throughout the degree.
Students do not write a final year dissertation on this programme.
Instead, the Semester Abroad assessment involves independent research that is conducted through the target language (French or Spanish) and an extended piece of written and oral assessment in the target language.
This project is dissertation-equivalent.
All eligible students on this programme can apply for an English Language Assistantship through the British Council.
This is a competitive scheme and successful applicants spend a year in paid employment teaching English in France or another French-speaking country, Spain or Latin America.
This usually takes place between Semester 4 and 5 and Language Assistants are normally primarily responsible for conversation classes in secondary schools in their chosen country.
Some Assistantships can involve teaching in primary schools and, very occasionally, at University-level, depending on the experience of the applicant.
Semester 6 of this course is an integral Semester Abroad spent at a University in Spain or Latin America, or at a university or business school in France, or at one of our other partners in Quebec or Switzerland.
Some elements of the Semester Abroad can change over time and we’ll keep you updated on these changes via regular communication from the Course Director as well as via our International Office.
If you are studying both French and Spanish and you are eligible for the British Council English Language Assistantship scheme, an assistantship would fulfil our residence requirement for one language, and you would then normally spend Semester 6 in the country of the second language.
If you are studying French and Spanish and do not undertake an assistantship, you must fulfil our minimum residence requirement (usually 4 weeks spent in a French or Spanish-speaking country).
This minimum residence is undertaken at your own expense and during vacation time.
Often this involves studying at a private language school, but we have also had students who have found paid employment or internships during this period.
The Course Director and our dedicated Study Abroad Advisors in French and Spanish are happy to hear your suggestions for how you’d like to fulfil the minimum residence requirement.
If you are only taking one language you may also apply for assistantships as well as undertaking the compulsory Semester Abroad in Semester 6.
Dr Jacky Collins , Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467495 jacqueline.collins@stir.ac.uk
Students who are required to fulfil our minimum residence requirement (usually 4 weeks spent in a French- or Spanish-speaking country, often at a language school) should note that this minimum residence is undertaken at the student’s own expense and during vacation time.
Some elements of Study Abroad change over time, including eligibility for funding, and we keep our students updated on this as regularly as possible.
We offer a special 'Languages for Employability' module to help you prepare for your career.
Our Faculty Employability and Skills team is here to guide you throughout your studies.
You can also use the University Careers Service for expert advice on job applications, interviews, and career planning.
We're here to help you make the most of your degree and launch your career successfully.
Businesses need managers who understand international trade and speak multiple languages.
Your language skills and business knowledge make you attractive to employers, especially those working in global markets.
Graduates may find work in:
Our graduates work in companies such as

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/events-management:
Sorry, BA (Hons) Events Management is no longer available to study but we have lots of other great courses you might like.
Learn more about our areas of expertise and see what other subjects might interest you.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/film-media:
Master the skills to shine in the digital age and launch your media career with our Film and Media degree.
The UK film industry is growing, estimated to increase by 4% from 2022 to 2026 (source: UK Film Industry Statistics 2023) helped by streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime.
The industry welcomes all kinds of filmmakers from small studios making indie films, to big companies creating blockbusters.
Everyone can find their place in UK film.
The city of Stirling has received funding for a high-tech film studio, which will benefit our students.
The new facilities are expected to attract major TV and movie production companies, as well as providing career opportunities for those keen to join or further their positions in the film and media industry.
At the University of Stirling, we are a leader in film and media studies.
You'll use real industry equipment and:
The Kat Lindner Prize was inaugurated in 2022 to commemorate the memory of our inspirational Film and Media colleague Kat Lindner, who will be remembered by so many as both an international footballer and world-leading scholar.
The Kat Lindner Prize recognises exceptional undergraduate and postgraduate student work with a focus on applied research or placement projects based around field work, creative practice, voluntary or community projects in the field of gender/LGBTQ+ studies and feminism.
The prize is awarded annually and, reflecting Kat's inclusive views, is open not only to students working in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, but those across the whole university.
The Thomas Dunn Prize awarded for the best academic performance by a graduating student.
Tommy Dunn was the first professor of English Studies at Stirling and played a significant role in the establishment of Film & Media at the University.
The Dee Amy-Chinn Prize is awarded for the best undergraduate dissertation in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities in the area of gender or feminist studies (single or combined honours).
This prize is named for our late and much-missed colleague, Dee Amy-Chinn, one of the founders of our Gender Studies Masters programme, in lasting recognition of all Dee's wonderful work as a feminist researcher and teacher.
The Jonathan Witchell Prize for Best Radio Features Production is a memorial prize, donated by the family of former student Jonathan Witchell who died suddenly in 2007.
Jonathan was a graduate of the MSc in Media Management (1997).
After graduating, Jonathan began a career in radio and worked for the BBC for nearly a decade.
The Mediaspec Radio Prize , which is awarded to the best individual student of radio in 4th year.
The Faculty of Arts & Humanities Research Based Learning Prize which is awarded for the best overall dissertation.
Scottish HNC / HND Entry into Year 2 or Year 3 may be possible depending on your HNC/HND course.
In Semesters 1-5, you’ll learn vital skills in different aspects of film and media analysis through core modules that include: Reading Film and Television; Digital Media and Culture; and Understanding Audiences.
Semesters 5-8 will cover selected modules ranging from Screenwriting, to Feminism and Television, Media Futures, Global Film and Philosophy, Screening Science Fiction, Documentary Film and Television
Semesters 5-8 also offer regular production modules that build your core skills in areas such as: Editing and Workflow; and Content Development and Research.
The production strands ends in Semester 8 with Documentary Production.
The academic strand offers an original Research Dissertation or Screenwriting Dissertation option to end in Semester 8.
Lectures, seminars, workshops, group projects and presentations all feature in learning and teaching provision, and industry practitioners frequently deliver elements of the course.
Throughout your Film and Media course, you’ll be assessed via a combination of exams, essays, individual and group practical assignments, creative projects and a final-year dissertation.
Dr David Fleming , Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467293 david.fleming@stir.ac.uk
The film and media world is growing fast.
You'll learn about media industries and gain practical skills that employers love.
The skills you learn can be used anywhere in the world.
With services like Netflix, Disney+, and Amazon Prime Video, there are many jobs in content, media, and film production.
Graduates can go onto work in:
Our former students have won significant awards:
Some of our alumni are employed at:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/finance:
Our multi-accredited Finance course is highly-rated, versatile and practical.
Take a closer look at how studying finance at Stirling can boost your future opportunities.
Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute University Affiliation Program and Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI)
Our BA (Hons) Finance is the first undergraduate degree in Scotland to have Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute Affiliation Program status, underlining the embedded employability skills that students develop, as well as our cutting-edge syllabus.
Rooted in international research and shaped by the latest developments in finance theory and practice, this course will give you a comprehensive understanding of how stock markets work, how companies reduce foreign exchange risk, why corporate governance matters and why financial crises occur.
As you study, you’ll gain a thorough grounding in the theoretical and analytical skills needed for a career in corporate finance, investment management or financial services.
Your studies in Finance can also be combined with one of the complementary subjects, including our professionally accredited Accountancy course.
Graduating with an Accountancy and Finance degree from Stirling means you’ll be granted significant exemptions from professional exams when you begin your career.
Finance at Stirling is the perfect starting point for a world of exciting opportunities.
Students on the BA Finance or studying a combined degree with Finance can participate in this innovative week-long global financial trading and training boot camp run by our partner AmplifyME.
The Stirling AmplifyME course won the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute Innovative Delivery of Education (IDEA) global award.
It gives you the chance to trade futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
By letting you trade in real time, but with virtual money, the boot camp bridges the gap between an academic understanding of financial markets and how they function in practice.
Our students have established a Student Managed Investment Fund (SMIF), with support of our academics within the Accounting and Finance Division.
The SMIF allows you to gain practical experience of managing investments.
A student-led society, participation will help you to enhance your employability before you graduate, giving you exceptional practical understanding of theoretical aspects of investment valuation.
Particular emphasis is placed on the principles of responsible investment, including the use of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria when selecting stocks.
Find out more about the Student Managed Investment Fund, the regular guest speakers and how you can get involved at the SMIF website .
The BA (Hons) Finance course is a member of the CFA Institute University Affiliation Program, a designation awarded to academic courses that embed a significant proportion of the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledge into their curriculum.
We’re the first affiliated partner undergraduate course in Scotland, becoming members of a small group in the UK and one of a select group globally.
The CFA Institute is the largest association of investment professionals in the world.
Successful completion of the CFA Program leads to the award of the Chartered Financial Analyst credential, the most respected and recognised investment management designation globally.
To become a CFA Charter Holder you must study the CFA curriculum and take exams at CFA Levels I, II and III.
At least 70% of the learning outcomes of Level 1 of the CFA curriculum are covered on the BA (Hons) Finance making the course an ideal route for those wishing to achieve the CFA qualification.
We are a member of a very small group of universities in the UK to be affiliated with one of the main professional financial bodies, the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment (CISI) and only one of two Scottish universities to hold affiliation with the top two professional finance institutions the CFA and CISI.
This affiliation allows our students to gain the CISI professional qualification, Introduction to Securities and Investment, during their studies, giving them a competitive advantage when entering the job market.
Our students also have access to professional resources and enhanced networking opportunities, as well as the assurance that our modules are up to date with the latest developments within the finance industry.
The university is also accredited by AACSB International .
Preferred subjects Mathematics National 5 (B), Intermediate 2 (C), Standard Grade (3), GCSE (C/4) or equivalent.
Essential subjects To include Accountancy and Economics at Higher, A-level or equivalent
Preferred subjects Mathematics National 5 (B), Intermediate 2 (C), Standard Grade (3), GCSE (C/4) or equivalent
English, Welsh and Northern Irish access courses Access to Higher Education - 60 credits, minimum 45 at QCF Level 3, pass at 60% or above
You can study Finance as a four-year single honours degree or take it in conjunction with one of the complementary subjects to earn a combined honours degree.
In the first semesters you'll study core modules in Finance, Accounting and Economics, and will be able to select optional modules from a range of subjects.
Semesters 4-8 cover core advanced modules, including Mergers and Acquisitions, International Finance, and Financial Analysis.
You can also choose further advanced modules in Accounting and Finance from a list of electives or from those required by the degree course you're following.
Everything you learn in your Finance course is rooted in cutting-edge research and reflects the latest developments in finance theory and practice.
You’ll learn through a series of lectures, tutorials, computer-based workshops and independent study.
Every step of the way, you’ll be encouraged to enhance your interpersonal skills and gain an awareness of how those skills meet the needs of an employer in a business setting.
Your final grade for each Finance module will be based on a combination of coursework and exams.
Assessed coursework typically includes essays, problem-solving exercises or tests.
In your final year, you’ll write a dissertation – a major opportunity to sharpen your skills in research, data analysis and communication.
You’ll have the opportunity to broaden your horizons and study abroad through our well-established connections with several international universities.
Dr Dimos Kambouroudis, Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467296 d.s.kambouroudis@stir.ac.uk
Our module in Professional Development and Practice (Semester 8) places a special focus on preparing you for the workplace, and our overall focus on personal and professional development is designed to help you achieve your career ambitions.
You can tailor your degree towards a specific career by selecting a combined course, including combined Accountancy and Finance for an industry-certified degree that grants professional exam exemptions.
Finance graduates from Stirling are applying their skills in a range of jobs all over the world – from the UK and Ireland to Japan, Canada and beyond.
Recent Stirling graduates have started their careers at, HMRC, Santander and Virgin Atlantic.
Other graduates have forged careers at Lloyds Banking Group, Clydesdale Bank plc, Tsubasa Securities and Melrose Resources Plc.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/french:
Study French in a vibrant environment where your future is our focus.
Combine your French studies with other courses to enhance your career opportunities.
Studying a modern language opens up a world of opportunities, and a French degree from the University of Stirling is designed with your future firmly in mind.
We focus on giving you in-depth knowledge not only of the language, but also of the factors that are shaping France and the wider French-speaking world today.
This contemporary, all-encompassing approach means you’ll graduate with a true grasp of France’s place in the world and a deep understanding of the language’s ongoing evolution and reach.
You’ll be qualified to apply this knowledge in a host of professional arenas – with former French graduates from Stirling having gone on to work in areas as diverse as journalism, teaching, law and translation.
There’s no limit to what you can do with a second language, and the opportunity to spend an extended period studying abroad will further broaden your horizons.
Another advantage of studying French at Stirling is the flexibility of our degree programme.
You can combine French with one of many other courses to further enhance your employability and pursue specific career goals from the outset.
From Business Studies and Mathematics to Computing Science and Education (Secondary), our complementary subject choices are as unique as your ambitions.
Essential subjects To apply for a combined degree in French and Spanish, you'll need one of French or Spanish at Higher or A level.
Students should note that taking two languages from beginners' level where those languages are core to the programme is pedagogically inadvisable.
Essential subjects French
You can begin your French studies in either our advanced stream (for all students who have a Higher French or equivalent) or in our beginners’ stream.
If you’re in the beginners’ stream, the focus is first and foremost on intensive language learning and on building written and spoken language skills across the first semesters of study.
Students in our advanced stream study different aspects of the history, politics, and culture of the French-speaking world alongside weekly written and spoken language classes.
The two teaching streams merge from semester 4 onwards.
In semesters 5-8, you will take core language modules in spoken and written French and choose specialisms in a range of modules.
In most degree combinations that include French, semester 6 is a compulsory study abroad period – which is spent at a partner university in France, Switzerland, or Quebec.
If there are compelling reasons for which it is not possible for you to undertake semester 6 abroad, we strongly urge you to spend a minimum of four weeks in a French-speaking country, usually in a language school, or engage in any other activities discussed in advance and approved by your study abroad advisor.
You should also seek advice from the International Office on grant availability but expect this minimum residence to be undertaken at your own expense and during vacation time.
You will be taught through a variety of interactive lectures, workshops, tutorials, and small group language classes.
The development of high-level language skills and cultural awareness is further encouraged by experienced native-language assistants and through using the latest language-learning software.
You’ll be assessed on the skills you’re learning in a range of ways, for example via translations, compositions in French, essays, presentations, blogs, grammar tests and oral exams (individual and group).
Single Honours students will write a dissertation in their final semester on a topic of particular interest to them, working under the guidance of an academic supervisor.
Students on many other degree combinations including French will have the option of writing a dissertation.
During your studies, you’ll spend a period of residence abroad - usually in Semester 6 - studying at a university or business school in France, Quebec, or Switzerland.
In addition, you will have the option to spend a year abroad between semesters 4 and 5 (typically as a language assistant teaching English in a school).
This is a competitive scheme, organised through the British Council and does not replace the requirement for semester 6 Abroad where it is compulsory to a degree programme.
French at Stirling has exchange agreements with the Universities of Aix, Clermont-Ferrand, Geneva, Laval, Limoges, Nancy, Perpignan, Tours, Angers, and the Institut de Science-Politique (Paris, Dijon, Menton) – and with top-rated business schools such as ESSEC in Cergy-Pontoise, near Paris and the EMS in Strasbourg.
Professor Elizabeth Ezra , Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467538 e.r.ezra@stir.ac.uk
Students who do not undertake Semester 6 Abroad will be required to fulfil our minimum residence requirement (usually 4 weeks spent in a French-speaking country, often at a language school).
This minimum residence is undertaken at the student’s own expense and during vacation time.
As a language graduate, you’ll be a confident communicator with an ability to adapt well to new environments.
The combined courses we offer with Professional Education enable you to train as either a primary or secondary teacher with a specialism in languages – which is an opportunity you may not find on other university French courses.
We also have a dedicated Faculty Employability and Skills Officer and a Careers Service that work in partnership with academic staff to ensure you get the best out of your University experience, and are given the right opportunities to make you ready for the world of work.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/heritage-tourism:
If you have aspirations of working in the heritage and tourism sectors, our dedicated Heritage and Tourism degree is the perfect starting point.
You can learn about heritage, tourism, history, exhibition design, sociology, marketing and environmental studies – as well as the challenges facing the management and promotion of historic and natural environments in Scotland and beyond.
The course is informed by the internationally-recognised expertise of our academic staff and their extensive networks with professional partners, helping to distinguish our programme from other heritage and tourism courses.
You can be confident that everything you’re learning is rooted in the latest academic and applied industry thinking, and designed to prepare you for a career in the heritage and tourism sectors.
You’ll also apply your skills in real-world settings while you study – further sharpening the skills you’ll put to use when you transition into the exciting professional world of heritage and tourism.
Past students from this degree have been awarded a range of prizes within the Division and Faculty, including the Independent Research Project  Prize (for dissertations and heritage portfolios).
This course is only available for advanced entry, therefore all applicants must have a relevant HND (or equivalent) to start in year 3.
Students have the opportunity to engage in advanced study in specialised areas.
There is a core module in year 3 focusing on Heritage Protection.
Students also have the opportunity to take modules focusing on Museums, Heritage, Colonialism, Globalisation, Heritage and Identity, Public History, and Interpretation and Exhibition Design.
A distinctive aspect of the degree is the opportunity to complete either a Dissertation or a Heritage Portfolio during Year 4.
Teaching and learning is informed by the research and expertise of academic staff, and students have the opportunity to create their own specialised pathway drawing on 30-40 option modules from across the University.
Further information about modules in years 3 and 4 can be found below.
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures and small group sessions, as well as gaining valuable insight into the heritage and tourism industries through field trips.
A variety of student centred teaching methods and digital platforms are designed to put you at the heart of the learning process, playing an active role in shaping your degree and your future.
Our academic staff will support and inspire you with their friendly, approachable manner and their passion for the subject.
Field trips to heritage sites, museums and tourism assets are an important part of the programme.
Our teaching and learning engages directly with 'real world' issues and problems illustrated by specific heritage sites, museums and tourism assets.
Seeing these first hand is an essential part of your learning.
Field trips also provide an exciting arena for discussion and debate, whilst playing an important role in building a cohesive and supportive peer community.
You’ll acquire a wide range of skills and experience a diverse range of assessments, such as examinations, essay writing, workshop reports, oral presentations and exhibition design.
In Year 4, you will undertake an independent, supervised research project leading to either a dissertation or a Heritage Portfolio (based on your choice).
Your final Honours classification will be based on work done in Years 3 and 4.
Modules are typically assessed by a combination of coursework and examination, with the weighting varying depending on the nature of the material taught and the module outcomes specified.
Classroom hours vary as you progress through years 3 and 4.
You will become more independent in your learning, spending time doing supervised research and directed reading in preparation for seminars and assignments.
Heritage and tourism play a vital role in the economy, and offer diverse and rewarding forms of employment.
This degree programme combines applied business and tourism-specific skills with the academic skills from the study of history, heritage and conservation.
Those skills are highly sought after by not only employers within the tourism, conservation and heritage sectors, but have a wide appeal to employers from all career sectors.
A degree in Heritage and Tourism from the University of Stirling opens the door to opportunities with a wide range of organisations.
You’ll acquire skills that will be ideally suited to roles such as:
A Heritage and Tourism degree is also well suited to jobs in education, journalism, marketing and communications, the civil service and many other fields.
Further postgraduate training will be required for some of these fields.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/history:
Unlock the past and plan for your future with a History degree from the University of Stirling.
Create a course combination that matches your career ambitions.
If you really want to understand the modern world, it’s essential to unlock the patterns of the past.
History courses can help you do exactly that – and here at the University of Stirling, we take an innovative approach to guiding you through the major events and periods that have shaped us all.
Our History degree will equip you with a wide range of intellectual and personal skills.
You’ll gain an awareness of how different societies across the world have changed over time, by exploring areas such as Scottish, British, European, American and African history.
You’ll also engage with different types of history, including political, social, cultural, gender, race, computer and environmental.
History lecturers and staff at Stirling are leaders in their field.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework assessment, we are ranked in the top 15 universities in the UK for research impact in History and 3rd in Scotland for outputs and impact (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
That expertise and passion feeds into every aspect of your course to ensure you reach your final year of study functioning as a fully-fledged historian in your own right.
Along the way, you’ll enjoy the freedom to not only focus in on specialty areas of history that interest you most, but also to combine your studies with a range of other subjects that broaden your professional possibilities – from journalism to teaching, politics and sociology.
For more of a flavour of what we teach, our approach, and why we’re so passionate about History, check out our History Research at Stirling pages .
History students can be submitted for various prizes, mostly in the final year.
Some are dedicated solely for history, others across history, heritage and politics, and others across the Faculty of Arts and Humanities.
Environmental History Prize
An annual prize of £100 to be awarded for the best first class dissertation in Environmental History
Gordon Donaldson Prize
An annual prize of £50 for the best graduating student in History.
Robert and Margaret McKean Prize
An annual prize of £50 for the best performance by a final year student in European History
Stirling Guildry Prize
An annual prize of £100 to be awarded for the best dissertation submitted by a student taking History or Scottish History.
Faculty Research based learning prize
The Division of History, Heritage and Politics has been granted £250 by the Faculty to reward undergraduate students for contributions to research through their studies (projects, dissertations and so on).
The Scott Reid Memorial Prize
The £200 prize will be open to undergraduates in their final year of study studying History and/or Politics (including combined degrees with either subject).
The prize will be awarded to the student who achieved their degree despite facing adversity during their studies and or who have shown outstanding support and selfless giving for their fellow students, local community or family.
The Alasdair Ross Memorial Essay prize .
The £200 prize is open to all University honours students who have written an essay between 2000 - 5000 words on a topic within the area of Scottish Studies, with an emphasis on environment and heritage.
Dee Amy Chin Prize for Gender and Feminist Studies
£200 is for the Dee Amy-Chinn prize for Gender Studies and is open to undergraduate students in any discipline within the University and recognises exceptional achievement in the study of gender and/or feminism (essay, dissertation, creative practice).
Essential subjects History
In Semesters 1–3, students will take History, plus two other subjects.
In Semesters 4 you will take the compulsory module HISU9X4, ‘Back to the Future: putting history and heritage to work’, one other History module from a list of options, and a module in another subject.
In Semesters 5 and 6 you can study three History modules per semester from a varied list of topics, including: Environmental; Computing; Social; Political; African; European; American; British and Scottish.
Examples of actual modules include, ‘Black People in Britain 1750-1950: racism, riot and reaction’ (taken in semester 5), and ‘Death and Destruction: a history of violence in modern Europe, 1890-1945’ (taken in semester 6).
In Semesters 7–8, you'll choose a special subject that involves the use of printed documentary collections and other source material.
Students enjoy a choice of topics, including Revolutionary America, Apartheid in South Africa, or Immigration to Britain, 1800–1971.
To complete the course, students will also write a supervised dissertation of between 12,000 and 14,000 words on a research topic of your own choice supervised by a member of staff.
You’ll be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, individual supervision, workshops and field trips.
You’ll also learn from guest lecturers, who bring their specialist knowledge directly to you from a range of different fields.
A number of the modules offered in both History and Heritage involve fieldwork trips alongside regular seminars in class.
There are also opportunities for assisting with projects within History, the University Archives, and the Art Collection.
Throughout your studies in History, you'll be assessed based on a combination of exams and coursework.
Coursework may include essays, reports, posters, reviews, oral presentations and other elements.
You'll also write a dissertation of between 12,000 – 14,000 words on a research topic of your choice.
Lectures usually last 50 minutes and are recorded to allow students to listen again.
Most teaching is done in small groups.
In years one and two, tutorials last one or two hours; in year three seminars last two hours; and in year four seminar in Special Subjects last three hours (with, of course, a break).
Find out more about studying abroad.
Dr James Smyth , Course Director
+44 (0) 1786 467961 j.j.smyth@stir.ac.uk
A History degree from the University of Stirling opens up career opportunities in a range of sectors, from museums and heritage trusts to the civil service and worlds of marketing and journalism.
Studying History also helps you to understand the complexities of the modern world and use critical analysis to solve problems – a skill that is always in demand with businesses and organisations of all kinds.
During Semester 4 of your History studies, you’ll take an employability module aimed at exploring a wide range of career options through guest speakers and workshops.
Jobs directly related to a history degree include:
In the compulsory Semester 4 module ‘Back to the Future: putting history and heritage to work’, you will have the chance to listen to and meet with outside speakers from a range of employers and external institutions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/history-heritage:
Discover the complex relationships between past and present, and learn about heritage and museums, when you study for a BA (Hons) History and Heritage at the University of Stirling.
Why are some aspects of the past celebrated and others removed or destroyed?
What and who shapes our understanding of the past?
How does the past inform our identities, politics, and sense of belonging today?
This distinctive, exciting degree course gives you a framework for understanding the past's role in the contemporary world and the part that heritage plays in shaping our collective futures.
You will gain in-depth historical knowledge and understanding of a range of periods, with modules focusing on the social, political, and environmental history of Europe, Africa and North America.
Through modules on heritage and museums, you will engage with topics such as heritage protection, museum collecting, heritage and identity, cultural politics, globalisation and decolonisation.
Optional modules from other subjects give you the opportunity to build your knowledge, understanding and skills in complementary areas.
Throughout the course, you will explore topical issues relating to nationalism, conflict, civic society, culture, race, and gender.
The course will allow you to master a range of academic and practical skills.
With a strong emphasis on employability and career development, you will be well-placed to pursue a career in the heritage and museum sectors, amongst others.
History and heritage students can be submitted for various prizes, mostly in final year.
Some are dedicated solely for history and heritage, others across history, heritage and politics, and others across the Faculty of Arts and Humanities.
An annual prize of £100 to be awarded for the best first-class dissertation in Environmental History.
An annual prize of £50 for the best performance by a final year student in European History.
The Division of History, Heritage and Politics has been granted £250 by the Faculty to reward undergraduate students for contributions to research through their studies (projects, dissertations etc).
The £200 prize is open to all University honours students who have written an essay between 2000 to 5000 words on a topic within the area of Scottish Studies, with an emphasis on environment and heritage.
The course is delivered in person on campus.
It provides you with a knowledge and understanding of a wide range of historical periods, regions of the world, and topical issues, including heritage and identities, cultural politics, conflict, decolonisation, and environmental concerns.
Conceptual and theoretical understanding are combined with critical thinking and practical skills, to help you become an active, adaptable citizen capable of problem-solving in the face of complex global challenges.
The first and second years provide you with a grounding in essential skills for handling primary and secondary sources, as well as introductions to heritage approaches, through modules on medieval Scottish history, modern British history, concepts in history, and reputations in history.
In your second year you will also take a dedicated employability module, ‘Back to the Future: putting history and heritage to work’, alongside a survey history module from a list of options.
In the third year you will take a compulsory module on heritage protection and select from a wide range of history, heritage, and museum honours modules, as well as option modules from literature, sociology, management, and marketing, which provide the opportunity to strengthen your knowledge and skills in complementary areas.
A compulsory module in the third year prepares you to undertake independent, supervised research in your fourth year, leading to either a history dissertation or a heritage portfolio.
In your fourth year you can also select further option modules or have the opportunity to choose an in-depth history special subject.
You will learn through a combination of formal lectures, seminars and tutorials.
Small group tutorials will also provide feedback and reinforcement of lecture topics throughout each semester.
Digital technologies and sources of information play an important role, with tasks facilitated by blog posts, online discussion boards, podcasts, and video presentations.
A module focusing on museum and heritage interpretation is a highlight, where students work as a group to design and produce an exhibition.
In the fourth year, students undertake either a history dissertation or a Heritage Portfolio.
This is an independent supervised project, which brings together the knowledge, understanding and skills students have developed during the degree.
A key feature of this degree is the emphasis on authentic work-related learning, based on real-world tasks and case studies, supporting them to develop employability skills.
For instance, in one of the heritage modules, students work as a team to design and construct an exhibition, making extensive use of digital media.
In another they plan and deliver an online mini conference.
One of the core modules involves the development of a LinkedIn profile encouraging students to think critically about self-presentation on online career networking platforms, while managing digital identity, reputation, wellbeing, and safety.
Finally, the heritage portfolio gives students the opportunity to research, design and develop heritage outputs (e.g.
an exhibition design, a guidebook, a heritage trail), accompanied by interpretation and promotional strategies and a reflective report.
Field visits are an important element in the teaching and learning strategy for heritage modules, allowing you to engage with heritage places and organisations.
They are also increasingly used in history modules.
If you choose to do a heritage portfolio in Year 4, you will have the opportunity to design heritage and museum outputs.
These practical teaching environments encourage you to take a proactive, responsible and independent role in your learning.
The teaching and learning strategies draw on a variety of methods of assessment to enable you to demonstrate your progress and attainment against the intended learning outcomes of each module.
Assessment methods are wide-ranging to accommodate a wealth of learning styles.
They include:
Your active preparation and contribution to tutorial and seminar work may also be assessed.
In years one and two, tutorials last one hour.
In year three, seminars last two hours, and in year four, seminars in special subjects last three hours (with a break in the middle).
An optional Faculty of Arts and Humanities module, "Putting Arts & Humanities to Work", gives you the opportunity to undertake 30 hours of work placement in a career area linked to your degree subject.
Professor Siân Jones , Course Director
sian.jones@stir.ac.uk
Preparing you for the world of work
There is a strong emphasis on employability and career development throughout this degree course.
In second year you will take a dedicated employability module, which explores history and heritage in the world of work, as well as offering skills training in career development, CV writing and use of social media for professional networking.
Specialised option modules will provide you with a knowledge and understanding of the heritage and museum sectors, and how they can contribute positive and sustainable solutions to local, national and global issues.
We have formal institutional partnerships with The National Trust for Scotland and the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage.
We also draw on our networks in a wide range of organisations (e.g.
National Museums Scotland, Historic Environment Scotland and Kelvingrove Museum).
Our Heritage Lecturers have all worked in the heritage and museum sectors at some time in their careers and students gain from their wide-ranging experience in the classroom.
In addition, professional practitioners are invited to present guest lectures providing you with first-hand insights into the latest challenges and opportunities facing their sectors.
Students also visit heritage organisations and museums during field trips on a range of modules, which play an important role in enhancing learning.
Finally, we also have a dedicated Faculty Employability and Skills Officer and a Careers Service that work in partnership with academic staff to ensure you get the best out of your University experience, and are given the right opportunities to make you ready for the world of work.
Career opportunities
A History and Heritage degree from the University of Stirling opens up career opportunities in a range of sectors, from museums and heritage trusts to the civil service and worlds of teaching, marketing and journalism.
Jobs directly related to a history and heritage degree include:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/human-resource-management:
Boost your career prospects and make your impact on business with a degree in Human Resource Management (HRM) from the University of Stirling.
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD)
Human Resource Management is a vital part of every business, and impacts everyone from junior members of staff to CEOs.
With a Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) accredited HRM degree from the University of Stirling, you’ll gain far-reaching expertise in organisational success and unlock a wealth of professional opportunities.
The course will prepare you to make an impact on key areas of business such as recruitment methods, staff development, performance management and career progression.
You’ll also be equipped to enhance an organisation’s adaptability by broadening the skills of its workforce and understanding its broader social and economic environments.
When you study HRM at Stirling, everything you’ll learn is rooted in research and contemporary developments in the business world.
The course reflects the rapid changes in employment practices, markets, technology and law – ensuring you graduate with the front-line knowledge you need to succeed.
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
The CIPD accreditation only applies to the single honours degree.
A prize of £1500 is awarded to a 3rd-year-student with the best overall academic performance on the BA (Hons) Human Resource Management course.
The Abune Prize has been kindly funded by John (Jock) Scott, one of the University of Stirling Business School’s Advisory Board members and a contributing lecturer on the course.
A Stirling graduate with 30 years of global experience in leadership and advisory roles within human resources, Jock is a CEDR-accredited mediator specialising in workplace and employment disputes.
Advanced entry students will not be eligible for CIPD associate membership on completion of the degree.
You can study Human Resource Management as a four-year single honours degree or take it in conjunction with one of our complementary subjects to earn a combined honours degree and broaden your career opportunities.
The first two semesters of your course are designed to give you a solid grounding in the general principles of business, management, marketing, HR and more.
You’ll also have a chance to take modules from other courses that compliment your HR studies – including Business Studies, Law and Psychology.
From Year 2 onwards you’ll focus on specialist modules that cover the wider labour market, the latest changes in Human Resource Management, employment relations and how Human Resource Management impacts individuals.
Every step of the way, your course will be delivered by expert teaching staff who understand the rapidly-shifting nature of business and the broad range of factors that impact on the evolution of Human Resource Management.
We encourage you to think critically and examine organisational policies, as well as claims made about employment and the labour market more widely.
As such, HR “best practice” is questioned throughout the course.
Teaching is delivered through lectures, seminars and practical work.
In the advanced modules there's more opportunity for group work, case study analysis and skills development.
Assessment is conducted by a combination of coursework and formal examinations.
You’ll also complete a dissertation in your final year on a topic of your choice – strengthening and testing your research, communication and critical-thinking skills.
An internship is an opportunity offered by an employer to students over a fixed, limited period of time, which lets you gain practical experience.
Our Careers Service has details of internships available around the world with large private sector organisations, as well as opportunities with smaller local businesses which are promoted through the Third Sector Internship Scheme, the Saltire Foundation, and our very own Stirling Internship Programme.
Six reasons why you should consider an internship:
Dr Ciarán McFadden, Course Director
ciaran.mcfadden@stir.ac.uk
As you study, we seek to prepare you for the job market with our range of specialist career services.
Human Resource Management graduates from Stirling have gone on to work at the BBC, ASOS, IBM and other leading companies worldwide, with recent Stirling graduates starting their careers in some of the following roles:
Other graduates have forged careers in the following positions:
As part of this course, you will have the opportunity to take our Professional Development and Practice module, which helps you develop the 'softer skills' that are sought by employers.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/international-politics:
Take your first steps into international politics with our highly-rated course.
Combine your degree with Modern Languages for a unique edge in the job market.
If you’re contemplating a future in the world of international politics, you’ll need to understand issues of power, alliances, conflict and peace on a global scale.
The University of Stirling will help you build a confident and well-rounded knowledge of all these issues and more – from the decision-making processes of international organisations, through to the question of how international society is shaped.
You’ll be learning in a research-led environment, where the latest political events are dissected by recognised experts.
You’ll also benefit from our career-focused approach, which enables you to pick up the practical and analytical skills employers are looking for.
To further enhance your international outlook, you’ll have a chance to spend a semester abroad studying International Politics at one of our partner institutions.
Guest lecturers give you real insights into the professional applications of an International Politics degree.
Our alumni include a former Secretary of State for Defence and Member of Parliament, and there really is no limit to where in the world a degree in International Politics can take you.
Essential subjects To include either Politics, Government and Politics or Modern Studies.
See a detailed overview of what you'll study on this course.
Teaching in most Politics modules is delivered through podcasts, lectures, and tutorials.
Assessment is based on various methods that will range from essays and end of semester examinations, to policy briefs, presentations, and blog posts, each designed to help you hone the skills you will need for a competitive job-market.
For the Honours degree, the grades for all level 10 modules taken in Semesters 5-8 are combined to give your final degree classification, including your final-year dissertation.
As a University of Stirling student, you'll have the opportunity to broaden your horizons and study abroad through our well-established connections with  participating universities in Australia, Canada, Europe, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Japan and the United States.
Our Politics department has a special exchange programme with the University of Gothenburg for example.
Students who have met the grade requirements and passed the interview could spend Semester 6 in Sweden through this unique partnership.
Dr Zana Gul , Course Director zana.gul@stir.ac.uk
When you study politics at Stirling, you'll gain a clear understanding of the international political landscape, and how organisations like the World Trade Organisation, the United Nations and the European Union operate.
With the opportunity to specialise in diverse areas such as Middle East Politics, Global Environmental Politics and Human Rights, you'll leave the University well-equipped for the path that interests you the most.
Our alumni include Former Secretary of State for Defence Dr John Reid, former Member of Parliament for Stirling Steven Patterson, current MP Angela Crawley, and Member of the Scottish Parliament Neil Gray.
You can also broaden your opportunities by combining International Politics with French or Spanish.
We offer a comprehensive employability and skills programme to help you maximise your time at Stirling and develop the attributes required by employers.
We also have a dedicated Faculty Employability and Skills Officer and a Careers Service that work in partnership with academic staff to ensure you get the best out of your University experience and are given the right opportunities to make you ready for the world of work.
Jobs directly related to an International Politics degree include:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/journalism-studies:
Prepare for a media career with our highly-rated Journalism Studies degree.
Get hands-on experience, create a portfolio and make your passion your profession.
A degree in Journalism Studies from the University of Stirling equips you with the practical skills and theoretical knowledge you’ll need to make a mark in this rapidly-evolving industry.
With over 30 years of experience in researching and teaching journalism, the University of Stirling has established a reputation as one of the UK’s top institutions in the field.
This course covers theoretical and practical aspects of journalism, and offers an in-depth, critical understanding of journalism practice.
You’ll work individually and in groups to write articles and prepare portfolios; create pages for print and online news platforms; produce and edit visuals; and contribute to class blogs.
Everything you do will deepen your understanding of how professional journalists operate across broadcast, online and print media – and by the time you graduate, you’ll be ready to take your place among them.
Guest lecturers from the media regularly visit the University to share their knowledge with you directly.
The respected broadcaster Jon Snow described our media department as “a breed apart”.
Join us to fulfil your ambitions in journalism, and you’ll soon find out why.
"The Film and Media Studies department is a breed apart.
This is a holistic approach to film and media that refuses to ghettoise them into the narrow confines that others pursue in other institutions.
For me Stirling is simply the best in this regard."
Jon Snow, broadcaster and journalist
Take a detailed look at what you'll study on this course.
Lectures, seminars, workshops and presentations are the main teaching methods on the course, and you’ll take part in live reporting assignments whenever possible.
Journalists and editors from a range of newspapers and broadcasting organisations also contribute guest lectures and seminars.
The Hetherington Memorial Lectures have featured distinguished journalists such as James Naughtie, John Lloyd, Jon Snow, Roy Greenslade, Jonathan Freedland, Sheena MacDonald, Elinor Goodman, Allan Little, Lindsay Hilsum, and former editors of The Guardian, Peter Preston and Alan Rusbridger.
Students on the Work Experience module get the opportunity to visit political and media organisations.
We encourage students to secure work placements, and many of the practical assignments involve engagement with people in public life and ordinary women and men with stories to tell.
The degree is assessed by means of essays, examinations, individual and group practical assignments and an academic dissertation on a topic related to journalism or a 10,000 word journalistic investigation.
Each year you are expected to devote in the region of 1,200 hours to your course, if you are studying full time.
About a quarter of this time is spent in lectures and workshops, the rest of the time is for self-directed learning, reading, researching and writing assignments.
Your Journalism Studies degree includes opportunities to build a portfolio and to gain relevant work experience.
You’ll get practical experience in workshops throughout your studies, and you can add to your portfolio by working on a student newspaper, magazine, TV or radio station.
There’s a work placement module on the course that allows you to gain valuable experience and make contacts within the industry.
Students have undertaken placements with:
Adrian Hadland , Course Director
+44 (0) 1786 467524
adrian.hadland@stir.ac.uk
We have extensive links with the media industry, and our course is strengthened by regular input from our industry advisory board of professionals, who offer a diverse range of experience and expertise.
You’ll leave with extensive practical skills and a portfolio to enhance your employability.
Hone in on your career ambitions by combining Journalism with a range of other course options.
Your employability is one of our highest priorities, and we want to make sure you have every possible advantage when you enter the job market.
Our alumni go into a range of careers, but among those who have been most prominent in shaping the world of journalism include John McLellan, former editor-in-chief of the Scotsman, a former member of the Press Complaints Commission, and currently Director of the Scottish Newspaper Society; and BAFTA-award winning investigative BBC journalist Mark Daly.
Hear from Donald Matheson, our BA (Hons) Journalism Studies graduate on how studying at Stirling helped him turn his passion into a career.
Teaching staff write for publications including The Scotsman, the Evening News, The Irish News, New York Review of Books, Newlines Magazine.
One of the team also works on the newsdesk at the BBC in Scotland.
We are connected with 160 newspaper titles in Scotland through the Scottish Newspaper Society, and our students have had workshops from journalists from Channel Four News, Bauer Media, the BBC, The Scottish Sun, The Sunday Mail, and DC Thomson, among others.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/law-ba:
Our BA Law paves the way for countless career opportunities.
Find out about our BA Law degree entry requirements and explore our range of courses.
At the University of Stirling, our innovative Law courses give you an opportunity to study a range of subjects that reflect the importance of law in every area of society.
We offer two BA (Hons) courses – in Law and Business Law – which can help you develop your career in the modern legal market, such as legal analyst roles or jobs in a host of business settings.
Throughout your course, you'll be taught by leading academics who helped write the textbooks you're studying.
At Stirling, their expertise comes to you first-hand, and you'll be part of a close-knit legal department dedicated to providing a rich, enjoyable student experience.
From the Scots Law of Contract and Criminal Law to International Human Rights and Private International Law, you'll gain a firm grounding in essential subjects and enjoy the freedom to specialise in areas that interest you most.
You can also broaden your career possibilities by combining Law with other complementary courses that include Politics, Spanish, French, Business Studies, Criminology, History and Human Resource Management.
In addition, we make sure you graduate with the communication, organisational and personal skills prospective employers are looking for – qualities that you can refine further by spending a semester studying abroad or undertaking a work placement.
Our graduates are working in many exciting roles from using legal skills and knowledge in management roles in companies to developing the rule of law in an international context, highlighting the diverse opportunities a BA in Law from the University of Stirling open up.
BA (Hons) Law
This degree provides a broad university education in law in a wide range of areas, such as crime, the family, business, and government.
You may pursue a Bachelor's degree, General degree or Honours degree in Law.
Semesters 1–4
You are introduced to the fundamentals of law in Scotland.
Semesters 5–8
You will select advanced modules from a range of specialist legal topics.
These are shared with the LLB.
Teaching is delivered via in-person lectures and seminars.
You’ll also undertake independent research supervised by a member of staff, presenting a dissertation on a legal topic of your own choice in your final year.
Assessment is by examination and coursework.
In first and second year, the Law courses are typically taught with two hours of lectures per week and one hour of tutorial per fortnight.
In third and fourth year, the typical teaching pattern in Law Honours courses is one two hour seminar per week.
Our BA Law degree programmes give you the opportunity to participate in an elective work placement module in Year 3 or 4 depending on how well you have done in your studies as places are limited.
You’ll gain frontline experience within a busy law practice or law-related organisation – putting your studies into practice, and picking up valuable insights into the working world.
It’s an opportunity that can boost your employability after graduation, with prospective recruiters looking for evidence you have the real-world skills they need.
As a University of Stirling student, you’ll have the opportunity to broaden your horizons and study abroad through our well-established connections with several international universities..
Dr Tracy Kirk, Course Director
tracy.kirk1@stir.ac.uk
Miss Scarlet Robertson, Deputy Course Director
s.i.robertson@stir.ac.uk
A BA in Law from the University of Stirling paves the way for opportunities in the modern legal market.
As a non-qualifying law degree, the BA Law is aimed primarily at those not wishing to become practising lawyers; however, some students who undertake this degree do choose to go on and train to become lawyers.
To become a lawyer in Scotland you would need to take a 2-year accelerated LLB after you have finished your BA Law.
In England, you would need to sit exams in English law that our degree does not prepare you for.
By focusing on law within a wider social and business context, we’ve helped to prepare graduates for jobs with major organisations like Aviva Insurance, Royal Bank of Scotland, FIFA, the NHS and the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/liberal-arts:
Develop your skills in critical analysis and creative thinking.
Explore arts and humanities perspectives on past, present and future.
This exciting new full-time course will be available in September 2026.
How can we understand the world today?
In a future saturated with image, text and narrative - much of it machine-made - what knowledge and skills can we derive from the critical study and creative practice of imaginative writing?
Who has power and how are they held accountable?
How does the past inform the present?
How do literature and media shape political discourse and vice versa?
What is evidence and how can we assess it?
Why does identity matter?
Is peace possible and what do history and politics teach us about the means to achieve it?
What is security and how should we develop it in a globalised century?
The Liberal Arts programme at Stirling enables you to develop your skills in critical analysis and creative thinking, and to explore arts and humanities perspectives on past, present and future.
Choose from four concentration pathways (English Studies, Film and Media, History or Politics) and curate a selection of option modules alongside your compulsory module each semester.
In your final semester, you’ll work with supervisors to develop an interdisciplinary research project.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/marketing:
Stand out from the crowd with a Marketing degree from the University of Stirling.
Merging creative thinking with strategic analysis, marketing is the vital connection between any organisation and its potential consumer base.
With more marketing platforms than ever before and boundless avenues for creative communication, good marketing skills have never been more in demand or more vital to an organisation’s success.
The University of Stirling’s Marketing course is ranked within the top 10 in the UK for Marketing and Public Relations (Guardian University Guide 2024).
This is thanks to our research-led teaching and close ties with the industry.
We understand the need to prepare you for the rapidly shifting landscape of marketing in a digital age of 24/7 connectivity, whilst still exploring the timeless truths that have always underpinned the discipline.
You’ll experience how marketing works in a “live” environment, deepen your understanding of what makes businesses tick, and sharpen your skills in research and communication.
You’ll also have the freedom to take Marketing as a combined honours course with one of the complementary subjects – creating a tailored degree that'll give you an edge in the field you’re most passionate about.
With graduates working for organisations like Adidas, the BBC and Next, Marketing at Stirling is all about ensuring you can truly be the difference in this diverse, fast-paced and infinitely-relevant arena.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
The University of Stirling has joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications as a CIM Accredited Degree.
CIM qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our own degree which ensures we're equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
Our students and graduates gain exemptions in the number of modules that are required for the CIM qualifications.
Chartered Institute of Marketing Accredited Degree.
You can study Marketing as a four-year single honour degree or take it in combination with one of the complementary subjects to achieve a combined honours degree.
In your first year, you’ll learn about the general principles of industry, management and marketing – foundations you’ll build on later in the degree.
In your final year, you’ll be prepared to undertake a Marketing and Retail Consultancy project, designed to engage you with front-line business practices.
Industry-standard platforms, such as Google Academy, HubSpot and Hootsuite, as well as practical workshops, have been incorporated into our modules enabling students to demonstrate to future employers that they possess the skills needed in the workplace.
You’ll be taught through a range of engaging lectures, seminars and workshops, all of which use a variety of different approaches.
Some modules may involve the use of computer-based simulations or the chance to deal with real-world marketing problems undertaken for client organisations.
You'll experience teaching delivered by guest lecturers, who bring their expertise directly to you and deepen your understanding of marketing on the front-line of the business world.
You’ll also be graded on your final-year dissertation – a comprehensive body of work focused on a particular aspect of retail you’re interested in.
Dr George Maglaras , Course Director
+44 (0) 1786 467375 george.maglaras@stir.ac.uk
A degree in Marketing can become your key to a specialised marketing career or a more general management career in a wide range of public, private and voluntary sectors.
You’ll acquire a comprehensive range of analytical, problem-solving and professional skills which are increasingly valued in industry, commerce, education, government and non-profit organisations.
Marketing graduates from Stirling are working for high-profile organisations and businesses in more than 20 different countries.
The course is informed and developed by feedback from our close industry links ensuring that the modules’ content is up to date and relevant.
We've developed close relationships with industry bodies including the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM); the Marketing Society Scotland; the Scottish Retail Consortium; the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport and the Scottish Grocers’ Federation.
You'll also have networking opportunities with professional leaders during guest lectures and networking events.
The consultancy project will offer hands-on experience of working with a real company/ client and in combination with the dissertation module you'll learn how to use data insights to inform decisions.
You'll also have the opportunity to gain additional recognised industry qualifications and receive certifications alongside your degree or after your studies.
Our students participate annually in the Star Marketing Student of the Year competition organised by the Marketing Society.
The University of Stirling Marketing students have won the prestigious award several times in the last seven years, competing with students from universities across Scotland.
The award sponsor Edrington-Beam Suntory UK (a premium liqueur and spirit brand) organises an Apprentice Day looking for the most commercially aware and industry-ready students.
The winner is awarded a three-month paid placement at Edrington-Beam Suntory UK.
Our last winner has now secured a full-time job in the company.
The success of our students in this national competition highlights the continuing effectiveness of our Marketing course in developing relevant skills.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/philosophy:
A Philosophy degree from the University of Stirling addresses the big questions, while making sure you gain the key skills employers are looking for.
How are our minds related to our bodies?
Do we really have free will?
What can we truly know about the world around us, about other people or about ourselves?
These questions lie at the heart of philosophy – and if you seriously want to search for the answers, this is the course for you.
Our Philosophy BA will challenge you to develop a strong set of critical, imaginative and informed reasoning skills.
It will also deepen your understanding of the nature of the human mind, language, morality and politics, art, science and logic.
We offer breadth and variety – from modules focused on individual philosophers, to others built around specific topics such as metaphysics, moral philosophy and environmental ethics.
You’ll be introduced to key philosophical issues in your first two years, before focusing in on the areas that interest you most.
Along the way, you’ll benefit from the expert insights of your lecturers and tutors, whose own cutting-edge research feeds into course content and keeps you on the frontline of academic thinking.
Our Philosophy course has consistently achieved top marks for student satisfaction.
It won the Outstanding Programme category at the RATE Awards 2025 (The Stirling Students' Union Recognising and Advancing Teaching Excellence awards).
Your studies will play out in a supportive, vibrant environment with an extremely active Student Philosophy Society.
If you want to investigate the burning questions that shape humanity while gaining vital employability skills, choosing Philosophy at the University of Stirling is the perfect starting point.
A two-year Scholarship of £3500/year is awarded to a 3rd-year-student who meets the following criteria for the scholarship: born in Scotland; a first-generation University student; and doing single honours Philosophy.
The Department administers and awards the Scholarship.
The Abune Scholarship has been kindly funded by John (Jock) Scott, a graduate of the Philosophy Department.
Apart from funding the Scholarship since 2014, Jock also contributes to career development sessions for Philosophy students .
He is a member of the University of Stirling Business School’s Advisory Boards, an Honorary Professor in the School and a contributing lecturer to several of their courses.
Essential subjects Philosophy
Teaching in Philosophy modules is mainly through seminars, which are held each week to discuss a set topic - and lectures, which are usually given twice a week.
Throughout your studies, you’ll have many opportunities for one-to-one discussions with tutors.
Assessment in most modules is divided between essays written during the semester, and an examination at the end of the semester.
You’ll also write a dissertation on an approved subject of your choice in your final year.
Dr Simon Hope , Course Director
simonjames.hope@stir.ac.uk
University of Stirling students with a Philosophy degree have gone on to a diverse range of careers, some of our graduates are working for organisations such as: BAE Systems, HM Government, Scottish Enterprise, University of Sheffield, Justice Publishing and Wincanton.
By studying Philosophy with us, you'll take part in career development workshops, get the edge in the job market by mixing your Philosophy studies with various other courses, and set yourself up for a huge range of careers by acquiring the transferrable skills employers are looking for.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/politics:
Enhance your understanding of how the world works, and gain the skills you need to play your part in shaping it with a Politics degree from the University of Stirling.
Politics permeates every aspect of our lives – shaping our opinions, informing our decisions and helping us to understand what motivates people.
When you study Politics at the University of Stirling, you’ll increase your awareness of the different political systems, ideologies and policies that impact people’s lives regionally, nationally and globally.
We’re ranked among the best universities for Politics in Scotland, and are highly regarded for our strong, research-led approach to teaching.
A Politics degree helps you develop the intellectual, communication and analytical skills employers are looking for.
You’ll open the door to a wide range of career opportunities – from politics itself, to connected arenas such as commerce, civil service, journalism, law and teaching.
There are also plenty of opportunities to broaden your horizons by studying abroad during your course, including through our Politics-specific partnership with the University of Gothenburg in Sweden.
Essential subjects To include either Politics, Government and Politics, or Modern Studies.
Throughout this course, you’ll be taught through a combination of lectures and tutorials.
You’ll begin with a series of core modules that give you a broad grounding in politics – before specialising in Semesters 5-8, and choosing from a wide range of modules.
As you study, you’ll achieve a firm grasp of how different political systems work, and how to interpret political issues and events.
Assessment is divided between exams, essays and presentations.
You’ll also undertake class tests, take-home exams and research data exercises.
Dr Sean Kippin - Programme Director and Adviser of Studies
sean.kippin@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0)1786 467580
As a Politics graduate, you’ll have a clear understanding of domestic and international politics – as well as how organisations like the World Trade Organisation, the United Nations and the European Union operate.
This provides you with a solid understanding of the issues involved in international relations and the significance of politics as a global – and local – activity.
When you graduate with a BA Politics from the University of Stirling, you’ll be in good company.
Our alumni include Former Secretary of State for Defence Dr John Reid, and current MPs Anum Qaisar-Javed and Angela Crawley.
Tailor your Politics degree for a particular career path by combining courses such as Journalism, Social Policy or Business Studies.
Jobs directly related to a Politics degree include:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/politics-philosophy-and-economics-ppe:
Boost your career opportunities with a PPE degree from the University of Stirling.
Gain insight into politics, business and the big ideas underpinning society.
Our Politics, Philosophy and Economics (PPE) degree course was the first of its kind in Scotland, and combines three complementary subjects that give you a unique perspective on how the world works.
If you’re intellectually curious and passionate about understanding the complex challenges facing modern societies and economies, our PPE course is made for you.
As you study, you’ll gain a broad insight into what makes the world tick, and also explore the big ideas that have helped shape Western society.
The course brings together highly-regarded teaching staff from across our faculties.
You’ll benefit from the industry insights of our University of Stirling Business School.
You’ll also learn from experts in Politics and Philosophy from the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, who will help to ensure you graduate with a comprehensive understanding of the complexities of intellectual ideas, politics and business.
Our final year PPE students qualify for nomination for the following prizes:
The Murray Learmonth Prize
A prize of a £75 book token for the best dissertation in Single or Combined Honours Politics/ International Politics and PPE.
The Stephen Ingle Award
A prize of a £75 book token for best overall performance in Politics, International Politics and PPE Honours.
Essential subjects To include Politics, Philosophy and Economics
From semester 5 onwards you will choose one of our three PPE streams, which will enable you to progressively specialise in two of the three subject areas.
See detailed module information below.
You will study nine modules in Semesters 1-3, including: Politics of the British Isles; Introductory Microeconomics; and Philosophy – What’s it all about?
Semesters 4-8 will cover core modules in: Politics – Great Political Thinkers; Philosophy – Moral Theory; and Economics – Intermediate Macro Economics.
From Semester 5 onwards you will choose one of our three PPE streams.
Each stream comprises a range of optional and core modules which will enable you to progressively specialise in two of the three disciplines.
Semesters 7-8 offer further specialisation.
In your final year, you will bring together the different skills you have acquired in a dissertation that covers two of the subject areas.
Assessment for the modules on the course is either through coursework and or a combination of coursework and examinations.
Coursework includes essays, tutorial presentations, participation in tutorials, role play exercises, case studies and book reviews.
Your final Honours degree classification will be based on modules undertaken in the final two years of the course.
In general, (but with the exception of the dissertation) examination and coursework are weighted equally in each module.
Dr Andrea Baumeister , Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467572 a.t.baumeister@stir.ac.uk
Our PPE course offers a high level of intellectual stimulation with a down-to-earth understanding of the interface between political institutions, societal values and the economy.
Whether you’re aiming for a career in business, politics, the civil service, the voluntary sector or journalism, leading background knowledge in the humanities and the social sciences will be of great value and unlock a huge range of professional possibilities.
Learn from visiting speakers who bring industry insights directly to you and graduate with a unique, well-rounded insight into how the world works – and how you can make your mark on it.
As a PPE student, you’ll graduate with an in-depth knowledge of political institutions and the policy-making process; a comprehensive understanding of the big ideas that have shaped Western societies; and a firm grasp of how the economy works.
You’ll be skilled in argument evaluation, while also enjoying the ability to effectively express your own viewpoints.
You’ll also develop valuable insight into the cultural, intellectual and moral pressures on decision-makers – which will make you a valuable asset to a wide range of companies.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/professional-accountancy:
Our BA (Hons) Professional Accountancy is a three-year honours degree designed for students holding advanced qualifications, who wish to pursue a career in accountancy.
Accredited modules (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA); Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Chartered Institute of Public Finance (CIPFA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountant in England and Wales (ICAEW).
The BA (Hons) Professional Accountancy is a three-year honours degree designed for students holding advanced qualifications who wish to pursue a career in accountancy.
The degree provides significant exemptions from the professional examinations of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountant in England and Wales (ICAEW).
By studying towards this degree, you'll learn all the skills that accountancy involves to prepare and interpret financial information enabling investors, lenders, management, employees, government and others to make financial decisions.
Students on the course have the opportunity to participate in this innovative week-long global financial trading and training boot camp run by our partner AmplifyME.
The Stirling AmplifyME Boot Camp won the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute Innovative Delivery of Education (IDEA) global award .
It gives you the chance to participate in highly realistic computer-based simulations that replicate the experience of trading in financial markets.
By letting you trade in a simulated environment with virtual money, the boot camp bridges the gap between an academic understanding of financial markets and how they function in practice.
Our students have established a Student Managed Investment Fund (SMIF), with support of our academics in the Accounting and Finance Division.
A student-led project, it'll help you to enhance your employability before you graduate – giving you exceptional practical understanding of theoretical aspects of investment valuation.
The course consists of modules that are accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountant in England and Wales (ICAEW).
IB Diploma 35
Preferred subjects Preference is given to those with Mathematics.
Preferred subjects Preference given to those with Mathematics.
In the first year of the degree, you'll study a series of core modules to give you a grounding for subsequent stages of more advanced studies.
These core modules will be in Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Finance, Economics, and Business Law.
In subsequent years, you develop a critical and analytical approach to your studies.
You'll take modules in Advanced Financial Accounting, Accounting Information and Employment, as well as Applied Management Accounting, Personal Financial Planning, Quantitative Methods, International Finance, and Financial Analysis, Auditing, and Taxation.
Higher-level skills of critical evaluation, analysis and synthesis are extended in the modules Issues in Accountancy and Critical Analysis of Accountancy and Finance.
There will be numerous opportunities to develop your work-related skills at every stage of your studies.
The normal mode of delivery is for three 20-credit modules to be delivered over an 11-week period in two semesters per annum.
Each module usually consists of two-hours of lectures and a single one-hour seminar per week.
In order to achieve professional accreditation, many of the modules are assessed as both a two-hour unseen, closed book, written examination plus a one-hour unseen, closed-book, computer-based class test.
At final year stage, more emphasis is put on assessment via essays and presentations.
Dr Christopher Coles , Course Director
+44 (0) 1786 466415 accountingandfinance@stir.ac.uk
Our students are in high demand for their skills and many have been able to gain training contracts with accountancy firms of all sizes.
We maintain strong contacts with the profession and work closely with the University’s Careers Service .
Helping you develop your employability skills is one of our top priorities.
We give you the opportunity to take our Professional Development and Practice module, to improve your transferable business skills, including presentation and communication.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/education-with-chemistry-or-physics:
Develop as a teacher and learn to teach chemistry or physics at secondary school level.
These degrees are delivered jointly by the University of Stirling and Forth Valley College.
Do you want to be a science teacher?
The University of Stirling and Forth Valley College have teamed up to offer secondary education courses in chemistry or physics teaching.
You could become a science teacher and inspire the next generation of young scientists.
Our science education courses include:
These courses offer a unique opportunity to become a GTCS registered physics or chemistry teacher in Scotland using a 2+2 model.
The 2+2 label refers to a structure which includes 2 years of study to HND level and a subsequent 2 years of study to degree level.
Higher English and National 5 Maths must be obtained in the first two years of the course if not passed prior to entry.
Year 2 entry Year 2 entry will be considered on a case-by-case basis for HNC holders with sufficient chemistry or physics credits.
Year 3 entry Year 3 entry will be considered on a case-by-case basis for HND holders with sufficient chemistry or physics credits, including 80 SCQF credit points relevant to the teaching qualification or qualifications being studied.
40 of the credit points must have been studied at SCQF level 8 or above.
We will also consider university studies of 2 years, either in pure Chemistry or pure Physics, or on a case-by-case basis for other relevant subjects.
80 SCQF credit points must be relevant to the teaching qualification or qualifications being studied.
40 of the credit points must have been studied at SCQF level 8 or above Other qualifications Advanced entry may be possible depending on your qualifications.
For more information, contact our Admissions Team at admissions@stir.ac.uk.
To apply for a full-time undergraduate degree , you should apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
If you would like to apply only for this integrated degree course, you can use our direct application form (instead of completing a UCAS application for multiple course choices).
We work mainly with Forth Valley College, but students who have earned their qualifications at other colleges are also welcome to apply.
You will need a sound rationale for wanting to teach the subject/specialism you have chosen.
Find out more about entry requirements .
If English is not your first language, you must have one of the following qualifications as evidence of your English language skills:
Our BA (Hons) Professional Education (Secondary) with Chemistry and BA (Hons) Professional Education (Secondary) Physics courses are taught in collaboration with Forth Valley College.
You will spend two years at college studying modules from HND Applied Sciences or HND Applied Chemical Sciences before participating in two years of initial teacher education at the University of Stirling, alongside student teachers.
These courses are designed for students who want to teach chemistry or physics at secondary school level.
They also include school placements, so you can develop your confidence and gain experience in a classroom environment.
The first two years of your course will be delivered at Forth Valley College, where you will earn an HND in Science (with sufficient credits in Physics or Chemistry).
From year three onward you will study the following modules at the University of Stirling:
Our science education courses follow a 2+2 model, where you study 2 years to HND level at college, then 2 years to degree level at university.
Our college partner is Forth Valley College, but you can also join year 3 of the programme from another college.
Our Secondary Education courses are taught through seminars, lectures and workshops.
Dr Alison Hennessy +44(0) 1786 477694 alison.hennessy@stir.ac.uk
Alternatively, you may choose to continue your education with a postgraduate degree or carry out doctoral research, leading to the award of a PhD.
Find out more about teaching probationary service from The General Teaching Council for Scotland .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/retail-marketing:
Study Retail Marketing at the University of Stirling and benefit from our links to business and outstanding employability record.
Shopping is changing.
Consumers no longer differentiate between shopping online or visiting the shops on the high street or the shopping centre.
The industry has been responding to change for years with retailers having to adapt to a new competitive reality.
Actions by governments and the consumer response to the Covid-19 crisis has required retailers to alter how they operate, resulting in a different retail experience.
Our Retail Marketing course provides a solid grounding in the principles of retail business, including store operations, marketing and consumer behaviour.
You’ll have the opportunity to develop an understanding of human resource management, international business, logistics and merchandising.
Our staff are high-profile academics with excellent international reputations, and our teaching reflects the very latest research and industry thinking.
You’ll also benefit from our extensive contacts with leading retailers, which open the door to invaluable field trips and guest lectures.
The challenges of the rapidly-evolving retail sector mean companies covet skilled, knowledgeable managers who can put theory into practice.
With a Retail Marketing degree from the University of Stirling, you could be the difference they’re looking for.
You’ll study Retail Marketing as a four-year single honours degree.
Your first year will provide a background in business-related subjects, which will be taught alongside students from Marketing, Business Studies and Human Resource Management.
In later semesters, core modules in Retailing and Marketing are studied alongside a selection of elective modules – building up your knowledge in everything from visual merchandising to multi-channel marketing and supply chains.
Teaching on your course will centre around lectures and tutorials, with considerable emphasis being placed on the analysis of case studies.
To give you an all-encompassing view of the retail sector, the theory you’ll hear in lectures is also complemented with site visits and guest speakers from industry.
Assessment is through a combination of coursework and formal examinations.
You have the option of spending Semester 5 or 6 studying abroad under our exchange programme, or take part in exchanges administered by the University’s Study Abroad Office to destinations in the USA, Canada, Australia and elsewhere.
The Institute for Retail Studies also offers an undergraduate Retail Marketing course at the Singapore Institute of Management, which means you have the option of spending an entire semester of your course in Singapore.
Dr Dimitrios Kolyperas , Course Director
+ 44 (0) 1786 467325
dimitrios.kolyperas@stir.ac.uk
Our Retail Marketing degree can prove key in pursuing a specialised retail career or a more general management career.
Many of our Retail Marketing graduates are now in senior industry positions, including Managing Director and Fashion Buyer for large retail chains.
We also seek to give you an edge in the job market via a range of specialist career services that you can access during and after your studies.
We’re members of the Marketing Society Scotland – strengthening our bond with industry and business.
Retail Marketing graduates from Stirling are working for leading organisations such as Tesco, Primark and Amazon.
Our module in Professional Development and Practice places a special focus on preparing you for the workplace, and our overall focus on personal and professional development is designed to help you achieve your career ambitions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/scottish-history:
Explore Scottish history in the heartland of some of its most significant events.
Our BA Scottish History draws from the past to prepare you for your future.
The history of the Scottish nation is dramatic, surprising and an infinite source of inspiration in popular culture.
Studying at the University of Stirling will place you right at the heart of that history, with some of the most significant locations in Scotland’s past located right on your doorstep.
On this course, you’ll explore both the myths and the realities of Scottish History, unpicking the events that shaped a nation – from the wars of William Wallace to Scotland’s unprecedented impact on the wider world.
You can expect in-depth insight into every aspect of Scottish History - political, social, environmental and economic – all of which will deepen your understanding of present-day Scotland at the same time.
History at the University of Stirling is highly regarded.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) we were ranked in the top 15 universities in the UK for Research Impact in History, and 3rd in Scotland for outputs and impact.
That expertise feeds directly back into our teaching, ensuring you gain unique insights into Scottish History from some of its most respected scholars.
Every step of the way, your employability will be a top priority - with career-focused modules, field trips and guest lecturers all designed to get you ready for the world of work.
Our location in the shadow of so many famous Scottish events helps to distinguish your studies from other Scottish History courses.
Feed your passion for Scotland’s past, and make it an integral part of your future at the University of Stirling.
Scottish History students can be submitted for various prizes, mostly in final year.
Some are dedicated solely for History, others across History, Heritage and Politics, and others across the Arts Faculty:
Scottish History is taken as a Single Honours degree, but shares a number of modules with the BA History.
Students take Scottish History plus two other subjects in semesters 1-3.
In Semester 4 you will take the compulsory module HISU9X4, ‘Back to the Future: putting history and heritage to work’, a Scottish History module, and a module in another subject.
The Scottish degree also involves a degree of study in non-Scottish topics.
In Semesters 5 and 6 most of your studies will be in Scottish History.
In Semesters 7 and 8 Honours students take a ‘special subject’ involving the use of printed documentary collections and other source material.
Single Honours students also write a supervised dissertation of between 12,000 and 14,000 words on a chosen research topic.
In the BA Scottish History your Special Subject and Dissertation will be on Scottish History topics.
The University of Stirling has a reputation for excellence in the field of History, evidenced by the fact 98% of our research in the subject was rated world-leading or internationally excellent in the most recent Research Excellence Framework assessment.
This expertise flows directly into the curriculum and helps to create a vibrant teaching environment where you'll always be learning from historians with a true passion for their subject.
A number of the modules in History and Heritage involve fieldwork trips alongside regular seminars in class.
In years one and two, tutorials last one hour; in year three seminars last two hours; and in year four seminar in Special Subjects last three hours (with, of course, a break).
Dr James Smyth, Programme Director
Scottish History graduates from Stirling have been successful in obtaining a wide variety of posts.
During your studies, you'll gain valuable transferrable skills to open up a range of career paths.
You'll also benefit from our research excellence and connection with organisations such as the Scottish Association of Teachers of History.
In the compulsory semester 4 module ‘Back to the Future: Putting History and Heritage to Work’, you will have the chance to listen to and meet with outside speakers from a range of employers and external institutions.
We offer a comprehensive employability and skills programme to help you maximise your time at Stirling, and develop the attributes required by employers.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/social-work:
Join our leading social work course and we’ll prepare you with the skills you need for a successful career.
The Scottish Social Services Council
Health and social care workers are the largest proportion of key worker occupations (Office for National Statistics) and the services provided by these workers are vital to society.
Our stimulating and challenging Social Work degree could be for you if you would like to have a rewarding career that makes a positive contribution to society.
Our degree combines practical experience with theory, and gives you the professional qualification you need to practise social work and help change people’s lives.
You’ll be taught by qualified social workers and allied professionals, as well as members of national and international social work organisations.
Our course content draws on the latest knowledge and experience of people working in social work today.
Social workers are often involved in complex and difficult situations, as well as meaningful work.
We equip you with the skills you need to successfully deal with the variety of social problems you could encounter in social work.
For entry onto this highly regarded course, you’ll need to demonstrate some involvement with social work, the care system or a related field prior to starting the degree.
This can take the form of volunteering or unpaid work.
When you successfully complete your Social Work degree, you can register as a qualified social worker with the Scottish Social Services Council .
England, Wales and Northern Ireland each have their own registration body and they all accept this degree.
Essential subjects Numeracy and Literacy requirements evidenced at a minimum by Maths and English Standard Grade 3, National 5(c), Intermediate 2(c), GCSE (c/4) or equivalent qualification at this level.
Those without the formal qualifications for numeracy may be able to undertake additional study in the first year to meet SSSC requirements.
Essential subjects Numeracy and Literacy requirements evidenced at a minimum by Maths and English Standard Grade 3, National 5(c), Intermediate 2(c), GCSE (c/4) or equivalent qualification at this level.
Voluntary, paid or personal experience of social work or related activity is essential for entry onto our Social Work degree.
There is a two-stage, paper-based selection process for our Social Work degree.
First stage: your UCAS application form.
This is screened for social work-related knowledge and experience, as well as qualifications, so your personal statement is particularly important.
Second stage: additional written work.
If your application form covers the required areas, in terms of qualifications, experience and understanding of social work, you’ll be invited to submit an additional piece of written work.
You’ll be given two social work scenarios and asked general questions about the challenges and attractions of being a social worker.
You must register with the Scottish Social Services Council by the start of the second semester in Year 1.
As part of the registration process with the Scottish Social Services Council, all applicants are subject to a Criminal Records check.
You must be registered on the social work student section throughout your course and this is your responsibility to fulfil.
Previous criminal convictions may not exclude you.
However, certain convictions must be declared during the University application process and some previous convictions may result in your application being unsuccessful.
Please see the Disclosure Scotland Website for guidance on which spent convictions must be declared.
Our Social Work course is not available as a combined degree.
You’ll follow introductory courses in Sociology and Social Policy to give you an understanding of the wider context for social work.
In addition, you’ll take four modules that introduce you to social work knowledge, skills, law and policy, and one which incorporates community-based practice.
You’ll also take two other modules of your choice.
You’ll benefit from working alongside postgraduate students who are studying social work at MSc level.
Through a combination of well-supported work placements and class-room learning, you’ll cover:
From the autumn 2025 term, students will be required to attend at least 80% of all social work modules as a compulsory module requirement under the Attendance and Engagement policy.
This is a new requirement stipulated by the Scottish Social Services Council.
You will be taught by qualified Social Workers with a strong commitment to the profession, in terms of sharing knowledge and research.
We also use online resources and learning methods to benefit your study experience.
From Semester 4 onwards, we encourage you to engage with theory and research through case studies, role plays, discussions and project group work.
Our University of Stirling Social Work Service Users and Carers’ Group, ‘UNITY’, was established in 2005 in recognition of the important contribution that people who use social services have for social work education.
UNITY members are involved in many aspects of the Social Work degree, including direct teaching and the selection processes.
They also provide you as a student, the opportunity to practice your interviewing skills.
We use a number of assessment methods, including analytical accounts of practice, video-recorded assessment of practice skills, class presentations, an oral examination, placements and essays.
When you reach your final Honours year, you’re required to write a dissertation based on a piece of empirical research.
We believe that you should have experience of carrying out research in order to fully appreciate its relevance to practice.
You’ll have two professional practice learning opportunities in Semester 5 (85 days) and a second module spanning across the summer period and into Semester 7 (95 days).
You’ll work directly with people who use social services, under the supervision of qualified social workers and other professionals, and be assessed by a qualified Practice Teacher.
You could also join the Social Work Society through the Student Union.
This offers a support base for you to discuss issues regarding social work and professional development, as well as the opportunity to get involved in related activities.
Course director
Dr Sian Lucas s.e.lucas@stir.ac.uk
To register with the Scottish Social Services Council as a Social Work student, you’ll need to pay an application fee of £15, plus an annual fee of £15 thereafter.
In third and fourth year of your course you will undertake two full time practice placements (75 and 95 days’ duration).
We partner with placement agencies across central and South East Scotland but do not usually have access to placements in the West of Scotland.
Students should, therefore, be prepared to travel to placement.
Many settings require students to drive and have access to a car and some have pool cars which students can use.
It is advantageous, therefore, to hold a UK driving license.
A smaller number of placements can be undertaken using public transport.
It is not possible to guarantee practice placements close to the University so many students have to travel to other towns and cities in order to undertake their placements.
Undergraduate students can claim expenses towards the cost of travel to placement.
The NHS Social Work Bursary is available for students domiciled in England.
Undergraduate students can apply for this bursary from their second year of study.
Your employability is one of our highest priorities, and we want to give you an advantage when you enter the job market.
Our Social Work degree includes two work experience placements.
We also provide you with many opportunities to gain insight into the sector: from our qualified teaching staff, to social service users and carers, and staff from local voluntary organisations and agencies, we make sure you get the best support to start your social work career.
There are more than 1.5 million people working in the social care sector in the UK in 38,000 different settings and the adult social care sector alone contributes an estimated £43 billion to the economy (prospects.ac.uk).
Through our partnerships with local authorities and voluntary organisations, we regularly receive excellent feedback on our students – both on practice placements and as newly qualified social workers.
We prepare our Social Work degree students for the demands of agencies and real social work practice.
It has been my experience, and that of my practice teaching colleagues, that social work students coming from Stirling are of exceptional calibre and bring with them a high level of knowledge and skills which they appear to easily transfer to practice.
This of course has been enabled by the quality of teaching that they receive from both tutors and practitioners who’re involved in various aspects of the course prior to students undertaking a practice learning opportunity.
Vivian Fitzsimmons, Practice Teacher/Coordinator, Falkirk Council
Practice teachers (who supervise students on placements) comment favourably on the preparedness of the students and also on the quality of the work they undertake.
Shelagh Low, Workforce Development Officer for Fife Council.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/sociology-social-policy:
Choose our Sociology and Social Policy degree and you will gain expertise in understanding and researching a wide range of social issues and social policies.
Our Sociology and Social Policy course will help you understand the way society works, and the processes and outcomes of social welfare.
Social Policy takes this to the next level, examining the ways in which states and societies try to address social problems.
You’ll learn about how social policy is made and explore the debates around what works to address contemporary social issues.
Essential subjects To include Sociology
You’ll be taught through lectures, workshops and small discussion groups.
Your dissertation gives you the opportunity to put research methods you’ve studied into practice, and focus on a particular interest.
Typically, each module in Sociology and/or Social Policy consists of two lectures plus one workshop per week.
Our Sociology and Social Policy graduates work in the private, public and voluntary sectors.
Many students value their learning experience with us and go on to take a masters or PhD at postgraduate level , with a view to becoming a researcher or academic.
Tailored careers advice is available throughout your time at the University of Stirling.
Sociology and Social Policy is just one of the course combinations available to study at Stirling.
You can also study Sociology or Social Policy in any of these combinations:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/spanish-latin-american-studies:
Study Spanish at Stirling and discover a world of new opportunities.
Immerse yourself in our language and culture classes to speak, read, and write Spanish in multiple contexts on a professional level.
Over 400 million people around the world speak Spanish – which is why learning the language makes you a powerful asset to employers in an age of global opportunities.
This course offers the ability to learn Spanish for all regardless of your previous experience – from complete beginners to advanced speakers – and equips you to read, write and speak the language on an advanced level appropriate for the demands of today’s job market.
You will also have the chance to acquire a critical awareness of the societies and cultures of the Spanish-speaking world, as well as transferrable skills that can be applied in multiple professional and academic settings.
In order to truly immerse yourself in the Spanish and Latin American cultures, and in most degree combinations, you will spend an extended period studying abroad in Spain, Mexico, Chile, or Argentina.
This opportunity to refine your language skills will be enhanced by the research-led teaching you will enjoy in Stirling.
There is also normally the opportunity to work abroad with the British Council to enhance your CV (subject to successful application), which offers you time you continue learning and experiencing the language and the culture.
If you would like to explore multiple subjects, Spanish and Latin American Studies can be combined with several other courses.
From Accountancy or French and Education (Secondary) or Business Studies to Law and Journalism, each combination is designed to help you work towards your vision for the future right from the outset of your studies.
When graduating, the best student will receive the Blanco White prize.
Essential subjects To apply for a combined degree with French and Spanish, you’ll require one of these languages at Higher or A-level (or equivalent).
Essential subjects Spanish
In semesters 1-3 you will take Spanish at either beginners' or advanced learners' level, plus two modules in other subjects, allowing you to develop your interests and enhance your critical and analytical skills.
As far and as soon as is possible, the classroom language is Spanish.
In the first two semesters, beginners focus exclusively on developing their Spanish linguistic skills with a dedicated language course (with some opportunities to introduce the student to the concept of Cultural Studies in Spanish and Latin American Studies).
The course for advanced Spanish learners comprises tuition in written and spoken Spanish, including cultural aspects drawn from the Spanish-speaking world.
During semesters 3-4, beginners and advanced language students will deepen their language knowledge, as well as study Spanish and Latin American cultures.
You will acquire skills of how to express yourself in an informed and critical way, orally and in writing, in and about the fields of your study.
In semesters 5-8, you will continue with the study of language in its written and spoken forms and choose from a variety of thematic optional modules.
Previous option modules have discussed topics on: Creative Writing in Spanish; a Specialist Translation module; Sexuality and Gender in Latin American TV, Film and Culture: Border Cultures from the Hispanic World; and studies of the aftermath of Empire in the Spanish-speaking world.
In your final study year, you may write a dissertation on your chosen subject in place of a taught module.
If you are taking a Single Honours degree in Spanish and Latin American Studies, it is mandatory to write a dissertation.
In our Single Honours and many of our combined degrees there is a compulsory period of study abroad for a semester in a Spanish-speaking country.
If there are compelling reasons for which it is not possible for you to undertake the semester 6 abroad, we strongly urge you to spend a minimum of four weeks in a Spanish-speaking country, usually in a language school, or engage in any other activities discussed in advance and approved by your study abroad advisor.
The "Option B" study route listed below for semesters 5 and 6 is only for students who have received explicit permission from the course director not to study abroad in semester 6.
You will learn via a combination of lectures, language tutorials, seminars, oral practice sessions with a native speaker and extra curricular activities.
You can study Spanish at advanced level or as a beginner.
Years 1 and 2 of our advanced stream are in written and spoken in Spanish to further develop your knowledge of the language.
At the same time, you will take an introduction to modern Spanish and Latin American cultures.
The beginners’ stream concentrates on learning the language in Semesters 1 and 2 through a dedicated language programme.
In the first semester of Year 2, beginners progress to an intermediate course – enhancing their knowledge of the language while being progressively introduced to the study of Spanish and Latin American cultures.
In Semester 4, you will be ready to join students from the advanced course with a good knowledge of the language and have a firm grasp of the necessary skills needed to study Spanish and Latin American cultures more critically and intensively.
Formal assessment is by coursework such as language exercises, essays on set or chosen topics and written for particular reader groups, and oral presentations and engagement.
You will also be assessed through exams of various types, including oral exams in Spanish.
Written exams require essay-type answers, and language exams test your progress in language structures.
Thus modules are assessed by both coursework and examination.
If you study for an Honours Degree in Spanish, you will spend a period of residence abroad.
This is usually in Semester 6, and will place you in a Spanish-speaking university.
Stirling has exchange agreements with the universities of León, Santander, Sevilla, Jaén, Huelva, Oviedo, Navarra, Córdoba, Granada and Santiago de Compostela.
In Latin America, there are exchange agreements with universities in Mexico City, Santiago de Chile and Córdoba in Argentina.
In certain degrees, including Single Honours Spanish, the whole of Semesters 5 and 6 can be spent at a Spanish or Latin American university.
You will also have the option of working for a year abroad, normally between semesters 4 and 5.
Students often spend this in paid employment – typically as a language assistant teaching English in a school.
Mr José Ferreira-Cayuela , Course Director
+44 (0) 1786 467541 jose.ferreiracayuela@stir.ac.uk
Language skills are highly sought by employers and open up a wide range of careers.
Spending time abroad during your degree programme helps you develop cultural awareness, as well as an ability to adapt to new surroundings and work independently or as part of a team.
In a job market which is becoming increasingly global, these skills are in high demand across most career sectors.
Your experiences of using Spanish abroad help to prepare you for a range of professional settings and may make your CV stand out from the rest.
Combine Spanish with a wide range of other subjects to focus in on your specific ambitions.
We also have a dedicated Faculty Employability and Skills Officer and a Careers Service that work in partnership with academic staff to ensure that you get the best out of your university experience, and are given the right opportunities to prepare you for the world of work.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/sport-business-management:
Be the difference in the fast-moving world of sports with a Sport Business Management degree from Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence.
Sport is a global phenomenon that captivates audiences and transcends boundaries.
Underpinning it all, the business side of sports is a dynamic, competitive industry in its own right, involving instantly recognisable brands and hugely popular products, services and events.
Our Sport Business Management course equips you to meet the industry’s need for technically competent, customer-oriented and commercially-minded practitioners who can apply their knowledge across the domestic and international sports markets.
You’ll graduate with core management skills and an understanding of key contemporary issues in sport business – from marketing and branding, to sponsorship, event management and corporate social responsibility.
Everything you study will be rooted in the needs of industry, and you’ll be taught in realistic, sports-based working environments.
Stirling is one the best places to study sport in the UK and provides a unique context for your studies.
We’re Scotland's University for Sporting Excellence and were awarded UK Sports University of the Year 2020 (The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide).
We're also 1st in Scotland for sports research with 80% of our research in Sport and Exercise Sciences and 80% of our research in Business and Management Studies classed as world leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
Your career in the sports business starts here.
Essential subjects To include Business and Physical Education
You’ll study Sport Business Management as a four-year single honours degree.
There are three key components to the course: sport management and technical expertise; business enterprise; and market awareness.
Years 1-2 are designed to provide you with a broad grounding in the subjects of business, management and sports studies within the global environment.
Years 3-4 provide you with theory and applications of sport business management including marketing, policy, event management and more.
You’ll also have numerous opportunities to develop work-related skills at every stage of your studies.
The Sport Business Management course is delivered by leading academics working in the fields of Sport and Business.
There’s a variety of delivery methods, ranging from lecture-style presentations to small group interactive sessions.
Assessment is designed to engage you in thinking about the real-world challenges that sport businesses encounter.
Ranging from reflective essays, business reports and group work challenges, each assessment offers the opportunity for you to display your developing skills as a future business leader.
You'll take three modules every semester, each of which is likely to have a total of 30-40 contact hours – normally equating to 2 lectures and 1 seminar per week, per module.
Your timetable will vary depending on your choice of non-core modules.
Dr Guy Wilkinson
guy.wilkinson@stir.ac.uk +44 (0)1786 466095
Our International Sports Scholarship Programme is one of the largest high-performance sports programmes in the UK.
This course leads to many opportunities across a range of sport business organisations, including project management of sporting events or management of a retail sport business.
Get real-world experience by working alongside a business on a consultancy project in your final year.
When you study at Stirling we also seek to give you an edge in the job market with our range of specialist career services.
Find out more about how we prepare you for the world of work.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/sport-development-coaching:
Study BA (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching at Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence to reflect on and develop your practical experience, gain an in-depth knowledge of the sector and skills to boost your career opportunities.
Sport plays an important role in society – contributing to health and wellbeing, community, education, social inclusion, and national prestige from success in global events.
Its success depends upon skilled and enthusiastic individuals working to support athletes and clubs at all levels.
Our BA (Hons) course will teach you about:
Within those broader contextual themes, you will learn both the theory and research within the context of sports development and coaching, informing your personal development, skills and experiences, and laying the foundation for your future career.
Stirling is one the best places to study sport in the UK.
We're Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence and were awarded UK Sports University of the Year 2020 (The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide).
We're also 1st in Scotland for sports research with 80% of our research in Sport and Exercise Sciences classed as world leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
These accolades reflect the high-quality teaching and research at the University, as well as the success of our world-class athletes – which include Olympic and Commonwealth Games gold medallists.
We have strong partnerships with many national governing bodies of sport and other sporting organisations, some of which are based on campus.
We also work alongside community sport and active lifestyle organisations.
SQA Advanced Higher ABB
GCE A-level ABB
Essential subjects Physical Education
The BA (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching is a four-year course that is delivered across eight semesters.
The overarching aim is to give you a multi-disciplinary social science-oriented appreciation of sport and the sport sector.
This includes critically reflecting on the health, social, cultural, political, educational, and economic contribution of sport, sport development, and sport coaching.
In addition to providing an introduction to sport development and coaching, modules in the first two years provide an introduction to the importance of sport to individuals and communities, with particular focus on physical activity and health, sports psychology, sociology, and management.
You will also take modules from other faculties, enhancing your knowledge and understanding in a broad range of topics, as well as developing your academic skills and abilities in preparation for a more in-depth and specialised exploration of sport development and coaching.
In the final two years, you will deepen your understanding of sport development and coaching in the sport sector.
You will engage in learning that develops the knowledge, skills and abilities required to undertake academic inquiry into sport.
You'll take Research Methods and the Advanced Studies in Sport modules to prepare you to undertake an independent major project on a topic that reflects your interests and career aspirations.
You will also complete a Professional Practice in Sport module, where you will engage in a period of work-related learning and receive lectures from guest speakers from the sport industry on working in sport development and coaching.
Students are encouraged to develop their knowledge, skills and experiences in sport development and coaching by engaging in voluntary and/or paid sport development and coaching opportunities beyond the course.
On completion of the course, you will be an independent learner capable of critical analysis and competent in communicating through a range of mediums, to a range of audiences.
Furthermore, you will have laid the foundations for being an independent researcher preparing you for the opportunity of further study at MSc or PhD/Professional Doctorate level.
The Sport Development and Coaching course will be delivered using a blended learning approach of face-to-face and online learning.
Modules will be delivered through lectures, small group seminars, and guest lectures.
Materials posted online through our virtual learning environment, Canvas, will support this contact time.
Additional learning materials will take the form of podcasts, video lectures, and additional reading material.
The course uses a wide range of assessment approaches, including formative and summative assessment.
The assessments are designed to improve and assess your attainment of the learning outcomes, critical thinking, problem solving, creativity, communication, and group working skills.
Assessments make use of coursework and exams.
Coursework assessments can take the form of online tests, essays , digi-essays, reports, podcasts, and presentations.
These include individual and group submissions.
Exams include multiple-choice questions, short answer questions, essay-based questions or a combination of question types.
The assessments and marking criteria are aligned to the appropriate level on the SCQF Framework.
Throughout the course you will be provided with learning and teaching sessions and resources designed to help prepare you to undertake different types of assessment.
The Professional Practice module is designed to improve students’ awareness of the skills and attributes needed to be successful in the sport sector.
It aims to develop these skills and attributes through practical engagement in a work-related placement experience in the sport sector and engaging in a programme of work-related development activities.
Specifically, the work-related experience opportunity can be:
You’ll have the opportunity to study abroad through our well-established connections with several universities in North America, Australia, New Zealand and Europe.
Find out more about our study abroad opportunities .
Paul Greaves paul.greaves@stir.ac.uk
Sports Scholarships
See details of our International Sports Scholarship Programme .
Students with related degrees have successfully pursued jobs in the public, private and voluntary sectors across the spectrum of active lifestyles and exercise, community sports clubs and elite sports development.
Students from the BA (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching may also wish to further their education in sport.
The course provides a suitable background for entry into our sport Masters courses including MSc Sport Management , MSc Sport Performance Coaching and MSc Psychology of Sport .
Furthermore, students wishing to undertake research into sport development or coaching, or pursue an academic career, may wish to pursue studies at PhD level.
The course may also provide a foundation for students wishing to become physical education teachers, through completing a one-year Postgraduate Diploma in Education (Physical Education) at other institutions.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/teaching-qualification-in-further-education:
We’re one of just four Scottish Universities endorsed by the Scottish Government to offer the Teaching Qualification in Further Education (TQFE).
This course is available to students domiciled in Scotland.
If you’re a lecturer in Further Education or vocational education, this is the qualification you need.
Our in-service TQFE qualification will benefit you if you work in a further education or college environment, with experience of your subject area and training, teaching or coaching experience at an appropriate level.
We’re one of just four Scottish Universities endorsed by the Scottish Government to offer the Teaching Qualification in Further Education (TQFE), and it’s accredited by the General Teaching Council of Scotland (GTCS).
You can register with GTCS when you graduate, and your qualification will ensure you’re a professionally recognised lecturer.
Our TQFE is unique in emphasising the importance of critical reflection, peer learning and peer assessment.
We value the knowledge and skills you can bring to the course and encourage you to critically reflect on your existing teaching practice.
Feedback from our previous students has been very positive about these features of the course.
We’re accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS), so you can register with the GTCS when you graduate.
University Diploma
Higher National Certificate (HNC) at Level 7 on the Scottish Credit Qualification Framework (SCQF) or equivalent.
This pathway is for students where an HNC is the highest qualification available in the UK in that subject area.
BA Degree
Higher National Diploma (HND) at Level 8 on the Scottish Credit Qualification Framework (SCQF) or equivalent.
Equivalent recognised qualifications are:
Candidates for both qualifications must also have both literacy and numeracy skills.
The normal entry requirements are:
You should also have Information and Communication Technology (ICT) skills equivalent to Intermediate 2 (i.e.
level 5 on the SCQF).
Mathematics Standard Grade (3), National 5 (C), Intermediate 2 (C), GCSE (C) or equivalent.
You can apply for this course using our direct online application form.
Recognition of prior learning If you have any of the following prior Professional Development Awards (PDA's), you’ll undertake a 20 credit APL module as your final module on the course:
If you’re a postgraduate candidate who has the DELTA (or equivalent) award, you’ll be exempt from the final course module.
If you claim any of the above exemptions, you must provide your certificates when you apply for the TQFE course.
Retrospective exemptions are not given once you’ve started the course.
Where exemptions are granted, a reduced fee is charged.
You’ll be awarded with a BA or University Diploma when you complete the course.
Over one academic year you’ll take modules at SCQF Level 9, worth 120 points.
This course is available to those currently working in post-compulsory education (i.e.
an FE college or similar institution) and you’ll take the course part-time.
Your workplace teaching forms an integral part of the course.
The following modules are included:
This TQFE course is offered to you as either online study or blended study (a mixture of online and on-campus classroom teaching).
Canvas, our Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), is used extensively as a significant element of the TQFE course.
We provide a wide variety of digital resources for you to access online, including: recordings of all lectures; e-journals and e-books.
Additional resources are provided by various organisations in the FE sector, including ‘College Development Network’, Education Scotland and General Teaching Council Scotland.
Our face-to-face teaching involves lectures and workshops delivered by TQFE staff and guest speakers.
The lectures provide an opportunity for key concepts and issues to be highlighted, and for you to receive guidance about assessments.
The interactive workshops provide opportunities for you to engage with your peers from different subject areas and different organisations.
For each module you’ll complete formal written assignments, each of 2,000 words.
You’ll also be observed teaching at work on two separate occasions.
Each observation involves a written reflective exercise based on professional dialogue with your observer.
10 face-to-face teaching days are offered either on our campus or as synchronous online sessions.
Not available on this course.
Dr Kevin Brosnan , Course Director
+44 (0)1786 467681 tqfe@stir.ac.uk
Annual tuition fee for Scottish students
This course is only available to students with a tuition fee status of Scottish.
This tuition fee is set by the Scottish Government and may be subject to change.
Although you’re liable for annual tuition fees, you’ll be able to apply to the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) to have your tuition fees paid by the Scottish Government on your behalf.
(SAAS will then pay your fees direct to the university.) If you’re unsure of your fee status, you can check your eligibility online.
The TQFE course provides you with the required qualification for lecturing in further education in Scotland.
Our course also attracts students from beyond the college sector.
Some of our students come from Adult Learning organisations, the police, fire and ambulance services, as well as charities and other training providers.
If you achieve the BA award, you may also consider progressing to the MSc Education , MRes Educational Research , or the MSc Professional Education and Leadership .
Lecturers from the following colleges have undertaken the TQFE course at Stirling in the past:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/teaching-qualification-in-fe-pre-service:
Do you want to be a lecturer in further education?
We’re one of just three Scottish Universities endorsed by the Scottish Government to offer a Teaching Qualification in Further Education.
Do you want to become a lecturer in further education?
If so, this is the qualification you need.
Our pre-service Teaching Qualification in Further Education (TQFE) is a unique course that we tailor specifically to students who aspire to a career in the FE sector.
We’re one of just three Scottish Universities who are endorsed by the Scottish Government to offer the Teaching Qualification in Further Education (TQFE).
It’s accredited by the General Teaching Council of Scotland (GTCS) and you can register with them when you graduate.
We’re also guided and informed by a Programme Advisory Group made up of colleagues from further education colleges.
It’s a qualification that will ensure you have the best start to a career in further education.
As a pre-service student, you may have other teaching experience but wish to gain the TQFE qualification to work in the further education sector.
Our course is informed by the latest research and is practice-focused, ensuring you have a high quality learning experience.
We also emphasise peer interaction and critical reflection in our teaching.
The course also includes a placement opportunity in a further education institution to build your confidence in teaching and increase your employability.
We’re accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS), which means you can register with them when you graduate.
Applications for 2026/7 will open in November 2025.
If you have any of the following prior Professional Development Awards (PDAs), you’ll undertake a 20 credit APL module as your final module on the course:
This is a recognised teaching qualification if you'd like to pursue a career in the further education sector.
You'll follow a one year course which leads to a BA degree or an undergraduate diploma.
Over the year you'll cover five modules at SCQF Level 9 that are worth 120 credit points, including: Learner Diversity; Teaching and Assessment 1 and 2; Link Practice; and Professional Practice or Adult Education or International Comparative Vocational and Further Education.
We have strong links with the college sector, enabling us to arrange placements with various partner colleges throughout Scotland.
Our modules require you to attend on-campus lectures, seminars and workshops.
There’s also a placement at a Scottish further education college which gives you excellent teaching practice.
We make all our teaching materials available to you online, including: recordings of all lectures; e-journals and e-books.
Additional resources are provided by various organisations in the FE sector, including:
As a pre-service student you’ll undertake an unpaid college placement.
You’ll be observed teaching on your placement on two separate occasions.
These are usually carried out by core staff on the TQFE course.
We also employ FE college-based Teacher Fellows who complement the core team who undertake teaching observations.
This full-time course consists of 20 on-campus taught days, in addition to 120 hours of teaching practice on placement at a local college.
Our course is practice-focused, so you’ll go on an unpaid teaching placement at a local college (120 hours of teaching).
This involves 2 to 3 days per week of teaching practice in a college.
Your placement will be supported by tutor visits and college mentors.
It gives you the opportunity to develop and enhance your teaching practice in the further education environment.
Matthew Sowerby, Course Director
tqfe@stir.ac.uk
The TQFE course provides you with a highly relevant qualification for lecturing in further education.
You’ll graduate with the confidence and skills to successfully gain employment as a further education lecturer or Adult Learning tutor.
Our pre-service qualification is also highly valuable for other aspiring trainers and teachers, beyond the college sector.
Some of our students wish to work for Adult Learning organisations, the police, fire and ambulance services, as well as charities and other training providers.
We have strong links with colleges throughout Scotland, enabling us to provide practical placements as part of this course.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/accountancy:
Study Accountancy at the University of Stirling and discover why our multi-accredited course ranks among the best in the UK.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA); Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA); Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA); Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland (ICAS); Institute of Chartered Accountant in England and Wales (ICAEW)
Our course boasts 5-star teaching and multiple industry accreditation.
An accounting degree empowers you to prepare, present and interpret financial information for a wide range of organisations, and the skills you learn will enable investors, lenders, management and others to make key decisions based on financial facts.
The ideal path to a career in accountancy combines a university degree with recognised professional qualifications.
Our Accountancy course has been created with this in mind, and successful completion of this degree course will ensure that many professional bodies will give you significant exemptions from their exams.
From a basic understanding of how to prepare financial statements to an in-depth knowledge of auditing, taxation and reporting, our Accountancy degree covers everything you’ll need to know to join the thousands of Stirling graduates who have successfully transitioned from this course into the professional world.
Students on the course or studying a combined degree can participate in this innovative week-long global financial trading and training boot camp run by our partner AmplifyME.
The Stirling AmplifyME Boot Camp won the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute Innovative Delivery of Education (IDEA) global award.
Accountancy at Stirling is one of only a few universities accredited by five major regulatory bodies, meaning you’ll enjoy significant exemptions from their exams when the time comes to begin your professional life.
We’re accredited by:
ICAS Charles Scott Prize A prize of £100 is awarded annually to the Bachelor of Accountancy student with the highest overall performance in modules ACCU9A1 and ACCU9A2 in the same academic session.
Ede and Ravenscroft Prize The Ede and Ravenscroft prize of £1000 is awarded on academic merit to the top graded 2nd Year student within each School.
Essential subjects To include Accountancy and Economics at Higher, A-level or equivalent.
Foundation Apprenticeships Considered to be equivalent to 1 Higher at Grade B.
You can study Accountancy as a four-year single honours degree, or combine it with one of our complementary courses to broaden your focus.
In your first three semesters, your core studies in accounting and finance will be accompanied by teaching in economics, business management and business law.
Semesters 4-8 will help you develop an analytical approach to relevant subjects through eleven advanced core modules.
Among those modules will be a dissertation module, which will introduce you to research methods in accounting and enhance your communication, evaluation and analytical skills.
When you study Accountancy at the University of Stirling, you can be confident that everything you learn is in tune with the latest industry trends.
You’ll learn through a combination of formal lectures, seminars and practical workshops.
All our teaching is rooted in world-class research, with 80% of our research impact classed as world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework, 2021).
You’ll be assessed by a combination of coursework and exams.
For honours students, all advanced modules undertaken during the final two years count equally towards your overall degree classification.
In Semester 8 you’ll complete a dissertation on an approved subject.
Classroom hours vary, but in general, you can expect at least nine weekly contact hours per semester, which should be supplemented by approximately 30 hours of self-study weekly.
Dr Chris Coles, Course Director
+44 (0) 1786 466415
c.w.coles@stir.ac.uk
Accountancy graduates from Stirling are working in many different countries for companies including JP Morgan, IBM, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and many more.
Your degree grants you exemption from many industry exams – getting you off to a flying start in your journey to becoming a fully qualified Accountant.
Our modules in Accounting Information and Employment (Year 3) place a special focus on preparing you for the workplace.
And visits from professional bodies like the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) ensure your skills are always in tune with the needs of the accounting industry.
Recent Accountancy graduates from the University of Stirling have started their careers at PwC, SSE, Deloitte UK and Aston Martin.
Other graduates have gone on to forge careers at Dickson Middleton, Audit Scotland, Ernst and Young, and Standard Life plc.
We’re not only accredited by leading professional accountancy bodies, but we also host annual visits from them to exchange knowledge, strengthen our links to the industry and refine everything you’re learning in line with the latest developments.
These relationships, combined with our own highly-rated research-led teaching, help to create a foundation from which you can begin to build a career in accountancy.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/accountancy-finance:
Study Accountancy and Finance at the University of Stirling and discover why our multi-accredited course ranks among the best in the UK.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA); Association of International Accountants (AIA); Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA); Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA); Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland (ICAS); Institute of Chartered Accountant in England and Wales (ICAEW); Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI)
Our course boasts top-class teaching and multiple industry accreditation.
Studying Accountancy and Finance gives you the capability to prepare, present and interpret financial information for a wide range of organisations, and the skills you learn will enable investors, lenders, management and others to make key decisions based on financial details.
Our combined Accountancy and Finance course includes content specifically geared towards entering the banking and investment industries.
The BAcc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance at Stirling has been created with this in mind, and successful completion of the course will result in many professional bodies giving you significant exemptions from their exams.
From a basic understanding of how to analyse financial statements to an in-depth knowledge of economics, taxation and reporting, our Accountancy and Finance degree covers everything you’ll need to know to join the thousands of Stirling graduates who have successfully transitioned from this course into the professional world.
Students on the course can participate in this innovative week-long global financial trading and training boot camp run by our partner AmplifyME.
A student-led project, it'll help you enhance your employability before you graduate, giving you exceptional practical understanding of theoretical aspects of investment valuation.
Accountancy and Finance at Stirling is accredited by seven major regulatory bodies, meaning you’ll enjoy significant exemptions from their exams when the time comes to begin your professional life.
Our affiliation with the CISI allows our students to gain the CISI professional qualification, Introduction to Securities and Investment, during their studies, giving them a competitive advantage when entering the job market.
To find out more go to our articulation page .
If you’re planning a career in the accountancy profession or the wider financial sector, our combined Accountancy and Finance course is designed with you in mind.
After four years of study, you’ll have an honours degree and a focused knowledge of your field, along with qualifications exempting you from a range of professional examinations.
In your first three semesters, your core studies in accounting and finance will be complemented by teaching in economics, business management and business law.
Semesters 4-8 will help you to develop an analytical approach to relevant subjects through nine advanced core modules alongside elective modules of your choosing.
You’ll learn through a combination of formal lectures, seminars, practical workshops and tutorials.
In contrast to the single Bachelor of Accountancy (BAcc) course, Accountancy and Finance does not require the completion of a dissertation in Semester 8.
Accountancy and Finance graduates from Stirling are working across the world for companies including JP Morgan, IBM, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and many more.
Your degree grants you exemption from many industry exams, getting you off to a flying start in your journey to becoming a fully qualified Accountant.
Our Accountancy and Finance course includes additional content geared specifically towards a career in the banking and investment industries.
Our modules in Accounting Information and Employment (Year 3) and Professional Development and Practice (Semester 8) place a special focus on preparing you for the workplace.
Not only are we accredited by leading professional accountancy bodies, but we also host annual visits from them to exchange knowledge, strengthen our links to the industry and refine everything you’re learning in line with the latest developments.
These relationships, combined with our own highly-rated research-led teaching, help to create a foundation from which you can begin to build a career in accountancy and finance.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/animal-biology:
Stirling is the perfect place to study animal biology with laboratory skills and fieldwork an essential part of your training.
What determines an animal's resistance to disease?
Why are some animals selective when choosing a mate?
How do animals adapt to extreme environments?
On this course, you’ll study the enormous variety of animal life on earth and discover the answers to these and many other questions.
The course explores multiple aspects of animal biology, including animal behaviour, ecology, evolution, cell biology and physiology, as well as applied aspects of animal conservation and management.
Laboratory technical skills and fieldwork will form an essential part of your training.
You will learn key techniques and methods for the life sciences early in the degree and then have opportunity to apply them when identifying your own research questions of interest.
You will also receive training in fieldwork techniques both at our stunning University of Stirling campus and at residential field courses in Scotland.
Essential subjects To include one of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
Essential subjects To include Biology and one of Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology or Physics.
Essential subjects To include one of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics at Scottish Higher Level or equivalent at Grade B, if HNC or Access course is not science related.
Semesters 1-4 cover a range of core modules including Cell Biology, Ecology, Evolution and Genetics, Biodiversity, and Practical Skills, plus additional modules in other disciplines.
Starting in semester 5, you'll have the option to specialise in one of these pathways.
The pathways are a set of three modules taken in sequence from semesters 5-7.
In Semesters 7-8, you'll work on an independent research project and take several advanced modules.
Research projects reflect the active interests of academic staff.
Examples of past projects include:
The University of Stirling achieved five stars for teaching in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
Research-led teaching is at the core of your learning as our staff conduct world-leading biological research.
Teaching is delivered in the form of lectures and practical classes, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning and guided reading and research.
Our BSc (Hons) Animal Biology course places great emphasis on practical training, hands-on experience and preparation for a wide range of careers in animal biology.
We have a wide range of habitats on campus and regularly use them for practical work.
Some modules also include short excursions to visit sites and species close to the University.
You will have the choice of two residential field trips:
A 7-day field ecology and animal biology course in southern France.
It introduces you to the process of designing, conducting and analysing your own scientific project.
A 10-day field course to South Africa to develop your field research skills.
It provides an opportunity to develop an understanding of different physical and environmental processes and ecosystem functioning, alongside the conservation and management challenges of international landscapes.
Travel, accommodation, and subsistence on residential field courses are not included in the course fees.
We know that residential field courses can be difficult for some students to attend and incur an environmental cost.
To widen participation and increase sustainability in our teaching, there is the option of a non-residential field course module based on day trips around the University.
Modules are assessed by a combination of coursework and examination completed during the semester.
For many modules, the marks awarded for coursework contribute 40–50 percent of the final grade, but for some modules this is as high as 100 percent.
Students can build strong links with industry through summer placements with local employers and large corporates.
Our Careers Service can help you secure placements and offer the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability, or think about further study.
You can study abroad in your third year through our well-established connections with North American, Australian and European universities.
Dr Brad Duthie
+44 (0)7561 408101
alexander.duthie@stir.ac.uk
Depending on what modules you study there pay be particular additional costs, e.g.
field trips.
Please check each module for specific details.
Travel, accommodation and subsistence on residential field courses is not included in the course fees.
Animal biologists work in the agricultural, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and in conservation management and environmental agencies.
Other career paths include forensic sciences, teaching, the food industry, commercial analytical laboratories and, with further study, professions allied to medicine, and in academic, government and industrial research laboratories.
About one-third of recent Stirling Biology graduates have continued their studies to obtain a further qualification, such as an MSc or PhD.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/applied-biological-sciences:
Scotland is internationally recognised for its crucial contributions in drug discovery and development, medical technologies, stem cells, bio-manufacturing and bioinformatics.​
Our course is aimed at making a difference by solving the problem of skills shortages in life sciences.
We’ll give you technical expertise and proficiency in the vital practical and research skills sought-after by employers.​
By joining within year 3 you will be focusing on the cellular and molecular aspects of biological sciences.​
Your final year will focus on proteomic and genomic aspects of biological sciences, plus your research project.
Our research-led teaching, together with the experience and insight gained by your work placements, will make you work-ready for a modern career in biosciences.
Year 1 entry is unavailable, only those with a suitable HND (or equivalent) for year 3 entry will be considered for this course..
This course offers interdisciplinary training in areas that are key to contemporary biological science, including animal, plant biology and biotechnology.
This course will ensure you have life science awareness, strong technical expertise and are proficient in vital 'hand skills' (practical and research skills), that are heavily sought-after by employers.​
Joining in year 3 modules will focus largely on the cellular and molecular aspects of biological sciences including immunology and microbiology.​
An industrial placement module will give you valuable insight into how the biosciences industries work, as well as giving you hands-on experience in the workplace.​
Your final year will focus on advanced cellular and molecular biology, proteomic/genomic tools and experimental design together with an extended research dissertation carried out in academics’ laboratories.
Research-led teaching is the key to deep learning and understanding.
This approach, together with business placements, enables you to apply the skills that you develop to modern biosciences careers.
We offer a wide range of research topics for your dissertation projects, from environmental and applied microbiology to infectious disease research.
Our teaching is delivered in the form of formal lectures and practical classes, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning, guided reading and research.
In addition, a placement enables you to experience biological sciences within a business biosciences environment.
For many modules, the marks awarded for coursework contribute 40–50 percent of the final grade.
We offer a work placement module with 17 different Life Science Industries based in and around the central belt of Scotland.
For more information regarding those companies, please get in touch with us.
This course has been developed with employers, with an emphasis on understanding and practicing modern biological techniques and a view to producing ‘employment ready’ graduates.
Companies we work with include: Science and Advice for Scottish Agriculture (SASA), Valneva, BioReliance, Merck, Roslin Technologies Limited, Hyaltech Ltd and Diageo.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/applied-mathematics:
Our Applied Mathematics degree will give you the skills, experience and expertise valued by a wide range of careers and businesses.
Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications
Applied Mathematics combines the rigours of mathematics with practical applications in fields such as engineering, physics, and economics.
By studying Applied Mathematics, you'll gain the skills to analyse complex systems and model real-world phenomena.
There is a growing demand for scientists and engineers who can interpret and utilise complex data effectively.
Applied mathematicians are sought after for their quantitative skills and their ability to optimise processes, develop algorithms, and create mathematical models.
This course delivers that sought-after combination – through our teaching style, and our focus on real-world applications of both mathematical and statistical techniques.
For example, you'll use the mathematics computing laboratories as an integral part of your learning process, making your study as much experimental as theoretical.
Our Computing Science and Mathematics division provides a stimulating and supportive learning environment, and we have a strong and active research group.
Its primary interest is the application of mathematics to biology, economics and life sciences.
Our undergraduate degree courses are accredited by the Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications.
Each year we offer the following prizes:
Essential subjects Mathematics
English access course Access to Higher Education Diploma - 60 credits with a minimum of 45 credits at level 3
Advanced entry may by possible depending on your qualifications.
In Semesters 1-3, you’ll take Mathematics plus two other subjects.
Material covered at secondary level is reviewed and applied before being developed further, ensuring a smooth transition from a school teaching approach to a university one.
You’ll take core modules in: Calculus of One and Several Variables; Vectors, Matrices, Complex Numbers and their Application in Geometry and Systems Theory; Probability; Python Programming; and Analysis.
You can also opt to take an additional mathematics modules in Statistics, and Discrete Mathematics.
In Semesters 4-8, the Applied Mathematics Honours course covers a broad range of skills.
Advanced modules cover the following key areas: mathematical techniques for solving a wide range of problems; the theory underlying these mathematical techniques; and model-building, for example, converting real-world problems into mathematical form.
This will include projects that allow further development of skills in areas of applied mathematics.
Employers increasingly look for research experience and extracurricular activities in addition to a good degree.
We’ve been entering teams of students in The Mathematical Contest In Modeling with great success since 2011.
This offers students the chance to develop skills that employers are looking for.
In the National Student Survey 2024, Mathematics at Stirling was ranked Top 3 in Scotland and Top 20 in the UK.
We have been awarded five-star excellence for teaching in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
Teaching methods include lectures, online materials, practical classes, seminars, and individual and group projects.
Many of the course modules are assessed by coursework assignments, means of class tests and an end-of-semester examination.
We are an active research Institute, with funded research from the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) of over £1.4m, as well as funding from the European Union FP7 Programme, other UK Research Councils and funding agencies.
Additional weekly assignments are used by tutors and students to monitor progress.
In some modules class tests are replaced by projects in which you’ll solve problems based on real-world data.
Typically, in your final year you’ll undertake a challenging project or series of problems under the guidance of a project supervisor.
We help our students to build strong links with industry through summer placements with local employers and large corporates.
You can study abroad through our well-established connections with North American, Australian and European universities.
Dr Anthony O'Hare
+44 (0)1786 467427
anthony.ohare@stir.ac.uk
There is a growing need for graduates with mathematical skills in business, research and the sciences.
This course provides both the theoretical background and the quantitative skills you need to solve real-world problems.
Engagement with potential employers, work-related learning and the year-long dissertation project in your final year will develop your professional skills.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/biology:
Study Biology at Stirling and you study life.
Our course will give you the skills and knowledge needed for any of the diverse careers in biology.
Our course will teach you the full scope of life through multiple biological disciplines: from bacteria to blue whales, from enzymes to ecosystems.
For the first two years you’ll develop an in-depth understanding of the general processes that govern life on Earth, before specialising according to your interests in the latter half of the degree programme.
As you develop your practical skills you’ll become involved with research, giving you the opportunity to contribute to biological discoveries.
Laboratory technical skills and fieldwork will form an essential part of your training.
You will also receive training in fieldwork techniques both at our stunning University of Stirling campus and during on-campus and residential field courses.
Our staff, active in international research, will ensure you have the skills and in-depth knowledge required for any of the diverse careers in biology.
All research (100%) from Biological and Environmental Sciences was rated as having either outstanding or very considerable impact (REF 2021).
We're also ranked top 3 in Scotland, top 20 in the UK for Biology (National Student Survey 2024).
Essential subjects To include one of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics at Scottish Higher level or equivalent at Grade B, if HNC or Access course is not science related.
Training is provided in laboratory and field skills across the entire scope of biology, from cell biology through physiology to ecology.
During Semesters 1-4, you'll take core modules in Cell Biology, Physiology, Evolution and Genetics, Ecology, and Biodiversity.
You will learn practical skills in Natural Sciences and Quantitative Techniques and do a field course for ecology and identification skills.
Additionally, you can select from modules offered in Ecosystem, Environmental and Aquatic Sciences.
During Semesters 5 – 6 you'll take a core module in Plant Ecology and five additional modules from a range of options in animal and human biology.
Starting in semester 5, you'll have the option to specialise in one of five different pathways:
Pathways are a set of three modules taken in sequence from semesters 5-7.
In Semesters 7-8, our range of modules allows you to further specialise in an area of biology that particularly interests you.
You'll undertake an independent research project and study between four and six advanced modules from a range of options.
Final-year projects are a challenging yet valuable part of our degrees.
In recent years, students on the Biology course have completed projects within the broad disciplines of Animal Behaviour, Plant Physiology and Ecology, Animal Ecology, Molecular Cell Biology, Parasitology, Molecular and Population Genetics.
Projects are supervised by our staff, but may also be carried out in conjunction with an external organisation.
Our academic staff are involved in international research, so our teaching reflects the latest thinking and knowledge in Biology.
You’ll learn through lectures and practical classes, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning, guided reading and research.
Our BSc (Hons) Biology course places great emphasis on practical training, hands-on experience and preparation for a wide range of careers in biology.
For many modules the marks awarded for coursework contribute 40–50 percent of the final grade but for some modules this is as high as 100 percent.
We subsidise costs for field trips but you’ll be required to make a financial contribution towards your travel, accommodation and subsistence for all residential field trips.
You’ll also need to pay for any optional overseas field classes in Years 3 or 4.
From life science jobs to research and teaching, there’s a great deal of variation in jobs available to graduates with a Biology degree.
Biologists can work in a variety of industries such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, health science, conservation, energy and the environment.
Other career paths include the civil service, hospital analytical laboratories, and government and industrial research laboratories.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/business-computing:
Our Business Computing course is ideal for setting you up for a career in developing IT solutions to support business needs.
With our Business Computing course, you’ll examine how critical computers are to business and learn how you can create computing solutions to support a range of business needs.
As part of your studies, you’ll develop basic knowledge of designing and building software systems and grow a broad base of skills through a combination of theory and practice.
The skills you’ll learn will be highly valued by employers - whether in the software industry itself, or in a wider and more strategic context developing IT solutions for any business.
We’ll help you build strong links with industry, and, during Year 3, there are opportunities to take part in either a three-month summer placement or a one-year placement.
You’ll also have the opportunity to study abroad through our exchange programmes.
Essential subjects: To include Computing and Business Studies/Management and relevant experience of Java or other programming languages.
In Semesters 1-3, students from our three computing-related degrees (Computing Science, Software Engineering and Business Computing) take the same core modules in Computing Science.
Core topics include: Computational Thinking; Programming Using Java; Social and Professional Issues; Usability and Accessibility of Interfaces; Database Principles and Applications; Data Structures, Objects and Algorithms.
There are also three core business modules and you’ll take one additional subject each semester.
We understand that students have a variety of backgrounds, and, in Semester 1, we can adapt the course to suit your previous experience and qualifications.
In Semesters 4-8, the course is made up of both core modules and optional advanced modules, giving you a chance to explore your particular interests further.
Final-year Honours students work on an independent project, which typically involves designing and developing a computer application within a business context.
A range of optional modules is available, drawn from Computing Science, Business Studies, Marketing and Management Science.
Our students also enjoy access to an active Computer Club that organises a number of activities and projects for those interested in Computing Science and Software Engineering.
In the most recent National Student Survey (2022) Computing Science at Stirling was ranked 3rd in Scotland, and top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction.
Computing Science at Stirling also ranked top 10 in the UK and 3rd in Scotland in the 2022 Guardian University Guide.
Furthermore, the University of Stirling was awarded five-star excellence for teaching in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
You’ll learn about Business Computing through lectures, small tutorial groups and seminars, and through practical and laboratory work.
Computing Science at Stirling is part of the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) Scotland-wide pooling initiative in research and knowledge exchange, as well as The DataLab, Scotland's Innovation Centre for data and AI.
Our staff are engaged with funded research from the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), as well as funding from other UK Research Councils and funding agencies.
The Computing Science component in particular is taught as a very practical subject and almost all modules include practical assignments.
Typically these count for 50 percent of the assessment grade, with the remainder given to the exam.
For the Honours degree, the grades for all advanced modules taken in Semesters 5 – 8 are combined to give your final degree classification.
We help our students to build strong links with industry through three-month summer placements and one-year placements.
Both of these are offered to third year students.
Placements are available with local SMEs as well as large corporates.
Our Careers Service can help you secure placements and offer the support and advice needed to plan your career, develop your employability, or consider further study.
Dr David Cairns
+44 (0) 1786 467445
dec@cs.stir.ac.uk
Recent graduates have gained successful employment in business and financial services with the likes of JP Morgan, Accenture, British Telecom, Bank of Scotland and HSBC, Verint, Microsoft, Scottish Power and Google.
Our placements allow you to practice your analytical and problem solving skills as well as your software design and implementation skills in a business setting.
We have connections with the following organisation via placements, internships and industrial liaison: Accenture, ARM, Calnex Solutions, Diagio, GE Digital, Honeywell, JP Morgan, Mage Control Systems, Modus Scotland, Morgan Stanley, Natural Power, NHS, Royal Bank of Scotland, Sainsbury's Bank, Scottish Enterprise, Scottish Fire and Rescue Service, Scottish Government, Scottish Water, Sports Scotland, Verint and Wood MacKenzie.
We have connections with the following organisation via placements, internships and industrial liaison:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/cell-biology:
Our cell biology degree will give you unique interdisciplinary training in the cellular and subcellular worlds that underpin modern biology.
Cell Biology is key to understanding how organisms develop, how they respond to their environment and how the diseased state differs from the healthy state.
Recent advances in cell biology are enabling cell biologists to:
Our course offers you unique and flexible interdisciplinary training from staff whose knowledge is constantly refreshed by their active research work.
As you study, you will develop a thorough understanding of Cell Biology that will give you the choice to progress to more advanced and specialised topics.
You will be given the support and encouragement to develop your passion and ideas for your research project where previous Stirling students have excelled in producing high-quality work.
We'll also provide you with comprehensive knowledge, troubleshooting and critical thinking skills, as well as valuable laboratory experience, ensuring that you are well-equipped to start your career in Cell Biology.
In Semesters 1-4, you’ll study the following core module: Cell Biology, Physiology, Evolution and Genetics, Laboratory Skills, Statistics, and Biodiversity.
You’ll also take additional modules in other disciplines of your choice, usually from modules offered in Biological or Environmental Sciences or from the Institute of Aquaculture.
Semesters 5-6 include modules in: Animal Physiology; Microbiology; and Animal Cell Biology.
You’ll also select additional modules such as: Changing Oceans, Infectious Diseases, Behavioural Ecology, and Plant Ecology.
In Semesters 7, you will undertake  a number of advanced modules which include: Molecular Techniques, Systems Biology, Biological Control Mechanisms.
Finally, in Semester 8 you will work independently on a research project of your choice - your Dissertation Project.
Research project topics will be offered to you that reflect the active research interests of academic staff but you're also supported in developing your own ideas.
Some students have organised projects with other research organisations and/or in partnership with a life science company, usually when they have already established a relationship with the organisation during vacation work.
Examples of recent high-quality student work include:
The University of Stirling was awarded five-star excellence for teaching in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
Teaching is delivered in the form of formal lectures and practical classes, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning, guided reading and research.
Modules are assessed by a combination of coursework and examination completed during each semester.
For many modules the marks awarded for coursework contribute 40 – 50 percent of the final grade, but for some modules this is as high as 100 percent.
As a Cell Biology student, you can study abroad in your third year.
We have well-established links to universities in the US and Canada, as well as new exchange programmes to European universities.
Dr Sabine Matallana-Surget , Course Director
sabine.matallanasurget@stir.ac.uk +44 (0)1786 467774
Additional student costs are kept as low as possible, but include purchase of lab coat and some personal lab kit as well as travel expenses for an optional placement module.
Our Cell Biology graduates may follow careers in the pharmaceutical, healthcare and biomedical, biotechnology, microbiology and agricultural industries.
Many students will go on to further study, such as a Masters degree or a PhD.
Companies we work with include: Science and Advice for Scottish Agriculture (SASA) Valneva, BioReliance, Merck, Roslin Technologies Limited, Hyaltech Ltd and Diageo.
Companies we work with include:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/computing-science:
Our computing science degree will teach you how to design, build and analyse computer systems.
Study with us and be at the forefront of the computing science industry.
It’s a world where the vast majority of global money exists only on computers and a computer can tell a fake smile from a real one.
This course has a practical, problem solving approach.
You’re taught how to design effective solutions to complex problems.
Not only will this course give you the theory, but you’ll get lots of practical experience in how to design, build and analyse computer systems.
You’ll also develop a firm understanding of how computers work as well as effective computer programming.
Our graduates are highly sought-after.
We’ll help you build strong links within the industry and give you the opportunity to take part in a three-month summer placement or a one-year placement.
You’ll also have the chance to experience diverse international teaching methods if you choose to study abroad.
Here at Stirling, you can enjoy access to a vibrant community with an active Computer Club that supports projects and activities for those interested in Computer Sciences, including the organisation of a Hackathon.
Essential subjects Subjects to include Computing and relevant experience of Java or other programming languages.
Email our Admissions Team for advice about other access courses
For year 1 entry, there are no course specific requirements for this programme although some experience of computer programming is beneficial.
Explore University of Stirling International Study Centre to see the Foundation and International Year 2 routes available.
In Semesters 1-3, students from all three of our computing-related degrees (Computing Science, Software Engineering and Business Computing) take the same core modules in Computing Science.
Core concepts include: Computational Thinking; Programming Using Java; Social and Professional Issues; Usability and Accessibility of Interfaces; Database Principles and Applications; Data Structures, Objects and Algorithms.
You’ll also take two further subjects.
In Semester 1, Computing Science students must also take a Mathematics module that is specifically designed to help with their understanding of networks, logic and algorithms.
Semesters 4-8 cover compulsory modules such as Computer Systems, Software Engineering, Computer Security and Networks.
Optional modules include: Artificial Intelligence; Web Services; Games Development; Mobile App Development.
Honours students work on an independent project in their final year.
The choice of project topic can be motivated by a particular interest that you have, and may involve the design and development of a major piece of software, an investigation into a particular research-driven topic or the development of control software for a hardware device.
Our students also enjoy access to an active Computer Club that organises a number of activities and projects for those interested in Computing Science.
Here at Stirling, you can enjoy access to a vibrant community with an active student-led Computer Club that supports projects and activities for those interested in Computer Sciences, including the organisation of a Hackathon.
In the most recent National Student Survey (2022) Computing Science at Stirling was ranked 3rd in Scotland, and in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction.
You’ll learn about Computing Science through lectures, small tutorial groups and most of all through practical labs, where concepts taught in lectures are implemented and tested.
Computing Science is taught as a very practical subject, and almost all modules include practical assignments.
Typically, these count for 50 percent of the assessment grade per module, with the remainder given to the exam.
For an Honours degree, the grades for all advanced modules taken in Semesters 5 – 8 are combined to give your final degree classification.
Placement opportunities are available with local SMEs as well as large corporate companies.
Year 3 contains a professional development course, which is designed to equip you with the necessary skills to secure a placement and, ultimately, job.
This degree will place you at the forefront of computing in a web-based world.
Our industry placements will ease your transition into the job market.
Our graduates are highly sought-after and well-equipped to enter either the software industry itself or one of the many fields in which computer systems are extensively used and developed.
Our recent graduates have been successful in obtaining employment with the likes of JP Morgan, Capgemini, Accenture, British Telecom, Google, HSBC, Verint, Microsoft and Scottish Power.
This course provides a perfect foundation for progressing to our postgraduate qualifications.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/data-science-artificial-intelligence:
This course will prepare you for a career in data, data science, analytics and AI, and their industrial and scientific applications.
This course creates specialists in understanding AI, computing and data science, to meet market demand for experienced and skilled graduates.
Advances in data driven AI and machine learning, particularly computer vision and natural language, are becoming increasingly popular in industry and society at large.
Technologies such as self-driving cars, intelligent assistants (like Alexa), ChatGPT, and AI health care have made AI an increasingly everyday technology, and one that will revolutionise the way we live and work in the years to come.
This course will teach you computing and data science technologies, with an emphasis on applications of artificial intelligence.
You will also learn the underlying computing and algorithmic principles driving data science and artificial intelligence technologies.
You will gain skills, experience and expertise valued by data science employers in a wide range of industry sectors including finance, transport, food, and local government.
These include scripting languages, databases, machine learning, analytical and data processing skills, and a modern, data-driven approach to AI including computer vision, natural language processing, and generative AI.
The course has a strong focus on employability, including a three-month work placement to provide valuable industrial experience and an opportunity to apply your skills in a commercial setting.
The final year includes a dissertation project, in which you will set the initial requirements, undertake development and research, and culminates with the presentation of your results to staff and industry representatives.
Email our Admissions Team on admissions@stir.ac.uk for advice about other access courses.
Email our Admissions Team on admissions@stir.ac.uk for advice about other access courses
Year 2 and Year 3 entry
Entry into Year 2 or Year 3 may be possible depending on your HNC/HND course.
In all four years students need to complete 120 credits comprising of compulsory and optional modules.
In year 1 students can take 20 credits worth of any available modules in the Autumn and Spring semesters.
However, CSCU9B2 is recommended.
Year 1 provides a broad foundation to the subject including an introduction to programming, data science and mathematics.
In year 2 students can take 20 credits worth of any available modules in the Autumn semester.
Year 2 focusses on database principles and technologies including relational and non-relational approaches.
You will also study Python scripting for data science and basic statistics.
Year 3 focuses on machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques.
In the final year students embark on their honours project which will give students the opportunity to apply their learning from the course.
Furthermore, the University of Stirling was awarded five-star excellence for teaching in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
You’ll learn about Data Science through lectures, small tutorial groups and most of all through practical labs, where concepts taught in lectures are implemented and tested.
Our BSc (Hons) Data Science and Artificial Intelligence degree is taught as a very practical subject, and almost all modules include practical assignments.
Dr Mario Kolberg
Senior Lecturer
mario.kolberg@stir.ac.uk
+44 (0)1786 467440
When ScotlandIS, the Scottish trade organisation for the IT industry, asked companies about the greatest opportunities for their business over the next 18 months, the top three answers were all data related (AI, machine learning, Internet of Things), for the second year in a row (ScotlandIS Survey 2020).
The BSc Data Science and Artificial Intelligence at Stirling will prepare you for a career in the data industry in these areas.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/ecology-conservation:
Stirling is a superb place to study ecology and conservation.
Join us at Scotland’s academic hub for environmental conservation.
People have an enormous impact on their environment through resource use, habitat loss and degradation, and climate change.
Understanding how our actions impact the ecological balance across the planet, and what we can do about it, has never been more important.
Our BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation course will teach you the science of ecology and conservation and provide practical training in field, laboratory and analytical techniques.
You will understand how animals, plants, fungi and microorganisms interact with their environment, as well as the relationship between people and the rest of the biosphere.
You'll learn about the policies and management strategies that aim to safeguard our biodiversity and the ecosystem services upon which humans depend.
Stirling is a fantastic place to study Ecology and Conservation.
We're near to diverse landscapes and work closely with a wide range of national and international organisations including conservation charities, Government agencies and industry active in the environmental arena, many of whom are based nearby.
Our external collaborative links are crucial to us in ensuring our research reaches the right places, and these also provide a wealth of opportunities for our students to find external partners for dissertations and placements, guest lectures and field training.
Each year a research based prize is awarded for best dissertation performance.
Essential subjects To include one of Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Mathematics or Physics.
Essential subjects To include Biology and one of Environmental Science, Geography or Geology.
Our BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation course aims to introduce students to the main issues in managing and conserving biodiversity at national and global scales.
In the first two years you will be trained in key field, practical and analytical skills alongside learning about both biological and environmental systems and processes.
There is increasing flexibility in the third and fourth years.
Alongside modules in Environmental Policy and Management, and Population and Community Ecology, there is a wide range of optional specialist skills modules available for you to choose from, allowing you to pursue your specific interests.
This includes technical skills such as Geographical Information Systems (GIS) for creating, managing, interpreting and visualising spatial data, remote sensing techniques, and advanced statistical approaches using the software R.
In the fourth year you will work with an individual member of staff on an independent research project to address an ecological or environmental question.
There are a wide range of topics to choose from which may involve field and laboratory work, or computer simulations, and collation and analysis of existing datasets.
Recent projects have included:
Some students design their own topics with guidance from our staff.
Our teaching builds on the latest thinking in Ecology and Conservation.
Teaching is delivered in the form of formal lectures and practical classes, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning and guided reading and research.
Our BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation course places great emphasis on practical training, hands-on experience and preparation for a wide range of careers in conservation.
The course includes an optional placement with an organisation involved in ecology and conservation biology and management.
Students are free to arrange their own placements or work with a member of staff to find suitable options.
Study abroad opportunities are available to all Stirling students, and we have a well-established environmental course with the University of Guelph in Canada.
Students in Biological and Environmental Sciences have also taken part in exchanges in Canada, Florida, Alaska, Sydney, and Hawaii.
You can spend one semester there during your third year, studying courses equivalent to those taken at Stirling, giving you the opportunity to broaden your environmental and cultural experience.
Professor Kirsty Park
+44 (0) 1786 467799
k.j.park@stir.ac.uk
Additional student costs are kept as low as possible, but include purchase of lab coat and some personal lab kit.
We subsidise costs for field trips, but you’ll be required to make a financial contribution towards your travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Scottish field class in Year 2 and the optional field classes in Years 3 and 4.
Additional costs will be approximately £400.
We've strong links with research and conservation bodies in Scotland (e.g.
NatureScot, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, Plant Health Centre), the rest of the UK (e.g.
Forest Research, Natural England, Defra) and international (e.g.
International Union for Conservation of Nature, European Environment Agency, Gabonese National Parks Service, Norwegian Institute for Nature Research).
We also have strong links various conservation non-government organisations, such as the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, British Trust for Ornithology, Bat Conservation Trust, Bumblebee Conservation Trust, wildlife trusts and environmental consultancies.
You will have the option of enrolling on a free eight week career course, specifically designed to improve the employability of students interested in conservation.
This is provided by the company Conservation Careers .

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/economics:
Study Economics at the University of Stirling to uncover the toolkit that can help you tackle the world’s most pressing issues and to open the door to endless career opportunities.
coreecon
Economics is the study of how people interact with others and their surroundings, and here at Stirling we look at Economics in a rich and varied way: from artificial intelligence (AI) in the labour market to addressing climate change, and from behavioural economic insights in decision-making to tackling global poverty and inequality.
An Economics degree from Stirling empowers you with sharp analytical tools, from experts in their field, with an ever-present emphasis on intellectual curiosity.
Our introductory teaching is delivered in a revolutionary new way of learning Economics through our commitment to the CORE Project – “Economics for a Changing World”.
In using real-world data to answer real-world questions from the very beginning of your studies, you'll understand global issues with historical and philosophical context.
Our expert staff will give you an insight into professional practices through their cutting-edge research, teaching practice, and links to industry.
You’re also free to combine your studies with one of several other courses, sharpening your focus on a specific area that complements your growing knowledge of economics.
Broaden your knowledge at one of the UK’s leading Business and Management institutions, and discover why our Economics course ranks among the best in the country.
Essential subjects Economics at Higher, A-level or equivalent
You can study Economics as a four-year single honours degree or take it in conjunction with one of a number of other subjects to earn a combined honours degree.
The interactive CORE teaching approach introduced in semesters 1-2 is explored in more detail in semesters 3-4, which will also include an accessible and applied introduction to statistics for economics.
Modules in semesters 5-8 are designed to develop your knowledge and understanding of the central methods of economic analysis and major policy issues, in addition to dedicated modules in Behavioural Economics and Game Theory.
You’ll also write a dissertation in your final year, as well as choosing from elective modules that can give you a specialist understanding of areas such as Environmental and Financial Economics, Experimental Economics and Industrial Organisation.
Our research-led teaching builds on the latest thinking from the business world and provides you with insights that will set you out from the crowd when you enter the job market.
Our teaching in Economics has been assessed by the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education and achieved the highest possible rating in every area.
Many of our instructors have professional, academic, and research recognition for their teaching practice, including fellows and senior fellows of Advance HE, contributors to the CORE project, and an associate of the Economics Network.
This underlines both our passion and our expertise in putting your learning experience at the heart of what we do across the course.
We use a variety of innovative teaching methods that reflect the evolving pedagogy in economics learning and teaching.
In a typical week you’ll attend some class-level live sessions and a tutorial or seminar for each module you’re taking.
We also make full use of our interactive virtual learning environment to ensure that your learning does not just take place within a classroom setting.
Your specific timetable will vary depending on whether you’re taking Economics as a single honours course or as a combined degree with the available subjects.
Our assessments vary in format, and we support your development in demonstrating your learning through regular formative assessment opportunities.
Typically, there are no exams in semesters 1-4, and instead a range of coursework assessments are used.
Our coursework assessments may include class tests, quizzes, group projects, presentations, short authentic economist reports, and digital artefacts.
In semesters 5-8, you may do some exam assessments in addition to larger pieces of coursework.
Dr Hector Rufrancos, Course Director
hector.rufrancos@stir.ac.uk
In addition to embedding employability and digital skills throughout our course, there is a specific module in semester 8 which places a special focus on preparing you for the workplace.
Economics graduates from Stirling are working in diverse careers that span everything from Portfolio Managers and Economic Analysts to Social Workers, IT Specialists and Members of Parliament.
Other graduates have forged careers as:

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/environmental-geography:
Our Environmental Geography course is unique in bridging environmental and social sciences, training you for exciting and diverse career options.
Our Environmental Geography course seeks to make sense of our changing world.
It’s unique in bridging environmental and social sciences, and in exploring the pressing human-environment issues of the 21st century.
We’ll turn you into an Environmental Geographer with the expert knowledge and skills to research, analyse and communicate how the changing environment affects our lives.
Your ability to visualise geographical issues at different spatial scales, from global to local, and to offer solutions to our most pressing environmental problems, will ensure that you’re highly sought after by a wide range of employers.
"Environmental Geography at Stirling has provided me with the confidence and essential skills necessary for graduate employment.
The extracurricular opportunities on offer and high quality teaching has ensured that my time spent here has been both valuable and transformational."
Johnathan Kitchen, BSc (Hons) Environmental Geography
At the end of Year 3 the Altajir Scholarship of £500 is awarded to the two best performing students in Environmental Science and Environmental Geography.
At the end of Year 4 the best performing student across the Environmental Geography degree is awarded a prize.
We also have a new Research in Sustainability Prize.
Essential subjects To include one of Environmental Science, Geography or Geology AND one of Biology, Chemistry, Economics, Mathematics, Physics, Politics or Sociology.
Environmental Geography is an integrated four-year degree course that provides you with training across the spectrum of the subject.
We emphasise research-led and experience-based approaches to understanding the complex relationships between people and the planet.
With an international context, the course is designed to give you essential skills in critical thinking and reasoning, fieldwork, laboratory work, statistics and geospatial analysis.
Semesters 1-2 focus on the building of planet Earth and the surface processes responsible for the evolution of our landscape.
Alongside these core earth-science modules you'll be introduced to how people interact with the environment and the most pressing human-environment issues of the 21st century – including global warming, water resources, pollution and biodiversity loss.
In Semesters 3-4, the emphasis is on field skills, biogeography and environmental resilience, including the essential systems of nutrient cycling for sustaining life on Earth.
In Semesters 5-6, research-led teaching provides a wide range of advanced modules that include themes of sustainable environmental resources, palaeo-environments, earth-surface processes and advanced geospatial techniques including remote sensing and GIS.
You'll also learn about sustainable development issues and there is a choice of skills-centred field courses in Year 3.
In your final year you'll develop and apply your research skills through your Honours research project.
You'll be closely supported by your academic supervisor and can actively participate in national and international research programmes.
In doing so, you can take full advantage of the wider geographical research community at the University.
Our research-led teaching is delivered by world-leaders researching the interface between the environment and society.
Everything you learn will reflect the latest thinking and developments in Environmental Geography.
At all levels of the degree we also emphasise practical local field studies.
There’s a range of stunning natural environments around Stirling, plus easy access to major urban centres, new towns and rural settlements.
Our residential Scotland field course will offer you the opportunity to gain practical experience in the Scottish Highlands.
You will also have the choice of a residential overseas field trip.
Our 10-day field course to South Africa will develop your field research skills.
The trip provides an opportunity to develop an understanding of different physical and environmental processes and ecosystem functioning, alongside the conservation and management challenges of international landscapes.
Assessment balances a wide range of coursework and examinations throughout the programme.
Our Careers Service can help you to secure placements and offer the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
Environmental Geography has well established course links with the University of Guelph in Canada.
You may spend either one or two semesters during Year 3 studying courses equivalent to those taken at Stirling, giving you the opportunity to broaden your geographical and cultural experience.
Dr Tom Bradwell
+44 (0) 1786 46778
tom.bradwell@stir.ac.uk
You’ll need to pay towards the costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Scottish field course in Year 2 and the optional fieldtrip in Year 4.
Environmental Geography graduates are equipped with a unique combination of subject-specific and transferable skills, enabling them to develop their understanding of the relationships between the environment and people.
Our course will also give you the foundation for graduate entry to advanced postgraduate taught courses and research degree courses in the geographical and environmental fields.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/environmental-geography-outdoor-education:
Environmental Geography and Outdoor Education is our unique course blending academic Environmental Geography with practical teaching on running outdoor activities.
Be the difference outdoors!
If you want a science degree in Environmental Geography that also provides you with outdoor teaching and guiding activities, this unique degree has been designed for you.
Our course blends the academic foundation of our Environmental Geography degree with practical teaching on leading and guiding groups outdoors and providing educational activities with a geographical and environmental emphasis.
You’ll explore core issues in geography, human impacts on our planet, biogeography and practical scientific techniques.
Our field courses and practical teaching will give you further valuable hands-on experience.
Our leading mountaineering instructors and outdoor specialists will teach you outdoor leadership, mountain skills and environmental education.
In addition, you'll have the opportunity to complete a semester abroad, a work placement module and gain the Mountain or Lowland Leader Award , endorsed by the Mountain Training Association.
This is a physically demanding degree, requiring a good level of health, fitness and mobility.
At the end of Year 3, the Altajir Scholarship of £500 is awarded to the two best performing students in Environmental Science and Environmental Geography.
This course includes a solid grounding in environmental geography together with practical training in navigation, mountain hazards, and outdoor safety.
We also train you to design, deliver and lead outdoor programmes with environmental and ecological learning outcomes.
We've strong links with outdoor education and environmental management employers giving you the opportunity to get hands-on experience of working with business partners during your degree.
In the outdoor education components you'll get to learn from some of the UK's top mountaineering instructors and outdoor educators.
All students shall complete their Mountain or Lowland Leader Training in Year 2, with the option to complete the Mountain or Lowland Leader Assessment in Year 3 or 4.
Students who wish to complete their assessment require a minimum of 40 quality mountain days or 20 quality lowland days respectively.
This degree requires a good level of health, fitness and mobility as well as a commitment to outdoor pursuits and mountain walking.
We were awarded five-star excellence for teaching in the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
You'll be taught through a mix of lectures, online materials, field and laboratory practical exercises and tutorials, and small-group seminars.
You'll have the opportunity to gain work-based experience as part of your degree which will count towards your degree progression.
Students are assessed through a diversity coursework assessments that allow them to demonstrate their understanding and skills on a range of topics.
These include written work (outdoor education lesson planning, landscape interpretation and preparing environmental consultancy reports), presentations (in groups or individually) and practical demonstrations.
This’ll give you highly relevant training for employment as you study for your degree.
This degree blends both field and classroom teaching.
When teaching in a classroom setting, students are expected to engage with staff and the teaching materials to create a collegiate learning atmosphere.
Students have the opportunity to complete a work placement module in the summer between their second and third year that counts towards their degree.
A range of employers are available with many students choosing their own work placement company that fits their interests.
Previous placements have included shadowing national park rangers, local environmental charities, outdoor education centres and adventure centres.
In addition to the exchange opportunities available to all Stirling students, Environmental Geography has a well-established exchange programme with universities including the University of Agder, Norway, University of Guelph in Canada and the University of Fairbanks, Alaska.
There are also options for exchanges to universities in Sweden and Germany.
During Year 3 you can spend one or two semesters abroad where you study courses equivalent to those taken at Stirling and have the opportunity to broaden your environmental and cultural experience.
Dr Alan Law, Course Director for Outdoor Education Degrees
+44 (0) 1786 467770
alan.law1@stir.ac.uk
Costs are for fieldtrips are subsidised but you’ll be required to make a financial contribution.
Our course will give you the foundation for graduate entry to advanced postgraduate taught and research degree programmes in the environmental field.
This course is not designed to train you to become an outdoor instructor, although you can gain additional qualifications independently (e.g.
SPA or BCU awards); or undertake a suitable postgraduate programme in outdoor education which would then qualify you to pursue this type of career.
Ardroy Outdoor Education Centre; Climb Industries; Glenmore Lodge; Oban Mountain Rescue; John Muir Trust.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/environmental-science-bsc:
Our innovative environmental science degree will equip you to tackle the world’s environmental problems.
Study at Stirling and be the difference in protecting our planet.
Institute of Environmental Sciences (IES),Community for Environmental Disciplines in Higher Education (CEDHE)
If you want a career tackling the world's most pressing environmental challenges this is the course for you.
Today’s environmental scientists are challenged to find solutions to some of the world’s most pressing problems from climate change, pollution, and the loss of biodiversity to the sustainable provision of energy, food, and clean water.
We were one of the first UK universities to introduce an Environmental Science degree and our course is accredited by the Institution of Environmental Sciences.
We conduct world-leading research and we are a hub for conservation and environmental organisations.
Hear from George about why Stirling is a great place to study Environmental Science.
The University was selected to host Scotland’s International Enviroment Centre and Scotland’s Hydro Nation Chair.
The Forth Environmental Resilience Array ( Forth-ERA ) is a state-of-the-art environmental monitoring system – the first of its kind worldwide – that links local sensors, satellite data and artificial intelligence via the 5G network to provide real-time data for sustainable decision making.
You will learn from our researchers working at the forefront of finding solutions to global problems together with outstanding networking and career opportunities, making Stirling a superb place to study Environmental Science.
You'll gain a scientific grounding and relevant, employable and in-demand skills.
Specialist skills modules  and regular careers sessions are embedded into core teaching.
Field training is a fundamental element that includes field courses in the UK and international destinations.
At Stirling, we’re passionate about Environmental Science and offering you innovative, interdisciplinary and research-led teaching that’ll inspire you to be the difference, and protect our society and the planet.
This course is accredited by the Community for Environmental Disciplines in Higher Education (CEDHE), the education committee of the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES).
CEDHE is the collective voice of the environmental sciences and related disciplines in higher and further education.
University of Stirling Environmental Science students are entitled to join the IES with a free student membership, a first step towards chartered status.
Altajir Scholarships (£500) are awarded to the highest performing students in year 3 of the BSc/MSci course.
Prizes for research-based learning and contributions to sustainability are awarded for outstanding dissertations in 4th year.
Essential subjects To include Biology and one of Environmental Science, Geography or Geology
The environmental systems on which our society depends are complex and fragile.
To understand these systems, environmental scientists need to take an interdisciplinary approach that combines knowledge of the geological, physical, chemical and biological processes that shape our natural environment.
This course will equip you with the analytical, field and laboratory skills to understand the complex interactions between people and the environment.
Research-led teaching ensures you are up-to-date with the latest knowledge.
Semesters 1-4 will explore the science behind the global geological, physical, chemical and biological processes that shape our natural environment.
We'll also provide training in laboratory and field skills through a series of core and optional modules.
Semesters 5-8 will provide specialist training in core modules, such as: Environmental Policy and Management; Geographical Information Systems; and Methods and Applications in Environmental Science.
Many students work closely with academics throughout their time and benefit from actively participating in research programmes.
Our alumni contribute to our teaching, as invited speakers and discussion partners.
Our research-led teaching is at the core of your learning as our staff are world-leaders in Environmental Science research.
Our teaching methods include lectures, field and laboratory practical exercises, seminars, and individual and group projects.
We use a wide variety of methods to assess your skills broadly.
Modules are assessed by a combination of coursework and examinations that include written assignments such as essays and reports, field sketches, presentations, group and individual projects.
While some lecturing material may be provided online for study in your own time, you will be required to be on campus for practical classes providing essential field and laboratory skills.
Seminars and tutorials provide a lively environment for interaction with your tutors and fellow students.
The environmental hub at Stirling offers a variety of placement opportunities.
The Faculty of Natural Sciences has its own Careers Service Consultant to advise you more specifically on developing your employability.
There are opportunities to volunteer and engage with environmental initiatives on campus through the student union:
You will also have the opportunity to enrol on the My Stirling Award programme and gain formal recognition on your degree transcript for your volunteering and extra-curricular activities.
You will have the opportunity to study abroad for one semester in Year 3.
Environmental Science has a range of well-established exchange programmes throughout the world.
A popular destination, for example, is the University of Victoria in Canada.
Dr Christian Schroeder
+44 (0) 1786 467754
christian.schroeder@stir.ac.uk
We subsidise costs for field trips but you’ll be required to make a financial contribution towards your travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Scottish field course in 2nd year and the optional field course in 3rd year.
We focus on scientific knowledge and technical training to create genuine career opportunities with a wide range of organisations, including water authorities, research institutes, renewable energy companies, conservation bodies, businesses, local authorities and government agencies.
As well as preparing you for the job market, some of our students choose to progress to postgraduate study, for example, in environmental management, education, information technology, remote sensing and waste management or research towards the award of a PhD.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/environmental-science-outdoor-education:
Environmental Science and Outdoor Education is our unique course blending environmental science with practical teaching on running outdoor activities.
If you want a highly respected degree in Environmental Science that also provides you with outdoor teaching and guiding activities, this unique degree has been designed for you.
The University of Stirling is a superb place to study Environmental Science, with our history of innovation in environmental research and study.
This course blends the academic elements of our Environmental Science degree with practical training in navigation and outdoor safety.
You'll explore global environmental issues, contemporary environmental science, landscape evolution, and scientific techniques.
In addition, you’ll learn how to design, lead and deliver outdoor programmes with environmental and ecological learning outcomes.
You'll have the opportunity to complete a semester abroad, a work placement module and gain the Mountain or Lowland Leader Award , endorsed by the Mountain Training Association.
This is a physically demanding course requiring a good level of health, fitness and mobility.
At the end of year 3 the Altajir scholarship of £500 is awarded to the two best performing students in Environmental Science and Environmental Geography.
We blend lecture-based teaching, substantial field-based learning about the environment and practical training in navigation, mountain hazards and outdoor safety.
We’ll also train you to design and deliver outdoor courses with environmental and ecological learning outcomes.
We have strong links with outdoor education and environmental management employers, giving you the opportunity to get hands-on experience working with industrial partners during your degree.
This degree requires a good level of health, fitness and mobility and a commitment to outdoor pursuits (in particular, mountain walking).
We’ve a proud history of innovation in Environmental Science.
University of Stirling was one of the first universities to establish a degree course in Environmental Science in 1980 and we are still committed to training graduates with the skills valued by employers today.
We offer the only Environmental Science MSci course in Scotland, which is accredited by the Institution for Environmental Sciences (IES).
You'll be taught through a mix of lectures, on-line materials, field and laboratory practical exercises and tutorials.
You'll have the opportunity to gain work-based experience as part of your degree, which will count towards your degree progression.
Students have the opportunity to complete a work placement module in the summer between Year 2 and Year 3 that counts towards their degree.
A range of employers are available with many students choosing their own work placement company that fits their interest.
Dr Alan Law, Programme Director for Outdoor Education Degrees
We subsidise costs for fieldtrips, but you’ll be required to make a financial contribution.
Our course will give you the foundation for graduate entry to postgraduate taught and research degree courses in the environmental field.
This course is not designed to train you to become an outdoor instructor.
However, you may wish to gain additional qualifications independently (e.g.
SPA or BCU awards) or undertake a suitable postgraduate programme in outdoor education which would qualify you for this type of career.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/graduate-apprenticeship-data-science:
Our Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science will give you a combination of work-based learning and high quality teaching delivered by experts in the field.
Our BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science degree will give you an in-depth awareness and appreciation of the underlying computing and mathematical principles driving data science technologies.
It is a practical degree focusing on the mathematical and analytical skills needed to begin a career as a data scientist or analyst.
It is a Scottish Government priority to increase workforce skills through graduate-level qualifications such as Graduate Apprenticeships.
Graduate Apprenticeships are supported by Skills Development Scotland (SDS) and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC).
Graduate Apprentices work for their employer whilst studying and developing their skills at the University of Stirling.
It means that work undertaken for the employer counts towards a Graduate Apprentice's qualification.
All tuition fees for the apprentice are funded by the Scottish Government and places are available for companies with a facility in Scotland, where the apprentice is employed at that facility and domiciled in Scotland.
The BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science course involves attending 1 day of online classes and 4 days work with the employer on a weekly basis.
Our graduate apprenticeships have been designed to tackle the challenges of current and emerging skills gaps.
Find out how our apprentices can help your business .
Mathematics competency
Where there is no evidence of competency in mathematics either in a formal or informal context, candidates will be required to undertake a short test.
This can be administered by the University or the Graduate Apprentice employer.
Applicants must also be:
Contact us for application and course queries
If you are looking to upskill your workforce, recruit new apprentices, or find out more about our Graduate Apprenticeship, please contact Fiona McMillan, Business Engagement Officer, on fiona.mcmillan@stir.ac.uk .
On our BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science degree, you'll study modules from Computing Science and Mathematics and will be introduced to both data science theory and applications.
Subjects at the core of data science include script programming, machine learning, artificial intelligence and statistics.
Students will be introduced to database technologies and learn cutting edge technology such as computer vision and natural language processing.
Our BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science degree will also teach you how to collect, manage and analyse big, fast moving data for science or commerce.
In the National Student Survey (NSS) 2021 computing science at Stirling was ranked top 5 in Scotland, and top 10 in the UK.
Our BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science degree will use coursework assignments, class tests and exams to assess your work.
Work-based learning elements will be assessed through reports and demos of code implementation.
Assignments will vary from module to module, with several technical assignments, some essay writing and some presentations.
The honours project will be assessed by dissertation.
The course is taught over three semesters: autumn, spring and summer.
The timetable below provides the modules that will be taught throughout the duration of the course.
Autumn
Spring
Summer
The BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science course involves one day of online classes – the course is built around an 80/20 split with the majority of time in the workplace.
Course Director
This course is only available to students domiciled in Scotland.
You should apply to the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for funding.
The University of Stirling offers undergraduate funding opportunities for students domiciled in Scotland.
To find out if you’re eligible to apply for an award, use our scholarship finder .
**The information below is not applicable to students taking the BSc (Hons) Graduate Apprenticeship in Data Science degree.**
Demand for workers with specialist data skills like data scientists and data engineers has more than tripled over five years (+231%), according to a labour market analysis commissioned for Dynamics of data science skills, a new Royal Society report published in May 2019.
The types of skills most frequently required by British employers include scripting languages, big data, SQL databases and machine learning.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/management:
Study Management at the University of Stirling and advance your career prospects by learning how to put leadership theory into practice.
The University of Stirling Business School is the perfect place to sharpen your leadership skills and gain insight into today’s business landscape.
Our expert staff have a track record of preparing graduates for roles at some of the world’s best-known companies, and everything we do is designed to equip you with the practical knowledge you need to become an effective manager.
You’ll learn how to solve complex problems through analytical decision-making, explore organisational structures, and develop personal skills in critical thinking, teamwork and leadership.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be prepared to turn innovative ideas into action and follow in the footsteps of our graduates who have gone on to work for Nat-West, Scottish and Southern Electricity (SSE), Morgan Stanley, Tesco, Visa, Rolls Royce, the Scottish Government and other organisations in a range of industries.
Our Management course is designed to arm you with the skills you’ll need to become an effective manager in today’s rapidly-evolving business environment.
Your first year of study will provide you with a broad grounding in business and management, covering topics such as the history of management, decision-making and business innovation.
In semesters 3-7, compulsory core modules provide theory and applications of management.
You’ll study leadership, project management, operations management, business ethics, and a range of practical management relevant topics that provide transferable skills for the workplace.
You’ll also have the chance to take elective modules in accounting and finance for managers.
In your final year, you'll research, analyse and carry out a dissertation project based on a particular business and sector.
You’ll be tasked with investigating a particular problem,  phenomenon or issue to demonstrate your capability in using the problem-solving tools and techniques taught on the course.
Studying Management at the University of Stirling will give you comprehensive insight into the internal workings of businesses and other organisations.
Our expert teaching staff draw on their research and industry insights to ensure you’re armed with a broad understanding of complex competitive environments – and equipped to make your mark on them.
You’ll be taught through on-campus lectures, practical workshops and seminars, using a variety of teaching methods including employing case studies, industry guest speakers and industrial visits.
You'll be assessed by a variety of formats which can include coursework, exams, vlogs, poster sessions, presentations and more.
Typically students will have this opportunity in third year.
Dr Naja Mohd Yusof, Course Director
+44 1786 467 326 z.n.mohdyusof@stir.ac.uk
Management courses teach you how to lead effectively, work well within a team, and solve complex problems through analytical decision-making.
After graduating from Stirling, you’ll have a firm grasp of these skills, as well as an understanding of what it takes to turn innovative ideas into reality.
We also seek to give you an edge in the job market through a range of specialist career services that you can access during your studies and after you graduate.
Our module in Professional Development and Practice (Semester 6 or 8) places a special focus on preparing you for the workplace, and our overall focus on personal and professional development is designed to help you achieve your career ambitions.
Management graduates from Stirling have gone on to work for leading organisations such as SSE, Tesco, Morgan Stanley, Nat-West, Rolls Royce, BT, VISA and many more.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/marine-biology:
Our marine and freshwater biology degree combines lectures, practical training, field courses and research projects.
Stirling is a great place to start your career working in aquatic environments.
Aquatic environments cover about 71% of the Earth's surface and play vital roles in regulating global ecosystems, providing food and resources that benefit human mental and physical health.
However, these environments are increasingly affected by human activities and environmental changes.
Marine and Freshwater Biology is the study of these aquatic ecosystems.
Teaching of this course involves the use of real-world examples from aquatic resources provided through our global partners.
You will get hands-on experience in our freshwater and marine facilities, learning how to apply theory to practice.
You'll be trained through modules that will equip you with specialist skills in laboratory techniques, aquatic ecology and using resources sustainably within the developing “blue economy”.
Our combination of lectures, practical work, fieldwork and research projects will ensure that you’ll receive a solid foundation in the subject and be ready for your future career.
By focusing on human impacts and how to manage, conserve, and use aquatic resources sustainably, our course aligns with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 2, which addresses hunger and food insecurity, and Goal 14, which focuses on life below water.
Stirling’s Institute of Aquaculture coordinates this course and it is a world leading centre, with an excellent international reputation in teaching, research, innovation and consultancy.
The Institute of Aquaculture has received the UK’s most prestigious academic honour – the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019.
The honour recognises outstanding work that shows quality and innovation, and delivers real benefit to the wider world through education and training.
It recognises our pioneering work in the world’s fastest-growing food production sector and our bid to tackle global hunger.
Every year, a research-based learning prize is awarded to one of our final year students based on performance in the dissertation or other engagement with research in the Institute.
This course will enable you to understand the underpinning function and dynamics of aquatic systems, and the biology, ecology, taxonomy and management of organisms inhabiting these systems from the molecular level to the entire ecosystem.
Practical work is integrated into the course to translate theory into practice.
You’ll learn to design and perform a range of aquatic survey techniques and use the information to assess the quality of marine habitats.
You’ll also gain a practical and theoretical understanding of marine organism taxonomy using traditional and molecular techniques.
The final year of study involves an independent research project, often carried out with external organisations.
Overseas projects in Semester 8 are encouraged and have previously been located throughout Europe, North and South America, the Indian subcontinent, Asia and Oceania.
During this semester you can choose to attend our marine mammals residential field course.
It offers an excellent opportunity to learn more about these iconic animals and understand the UK's rich marine ecosystems.
Our course is run by one of the leading international centres in its field.
With an excellent outcome in the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021 and the Queen’s Anniversary Prize 2019, we bring together cross-disciplinary, world-class researchers and have built up a first-class international reputation in teaching, research, contract research and consultancy for aquaculture.
We collaborate with academic research institutions throughout Europe and beyond, including Spain, China, Brazil, Norway and Thailand.
Our academics use their international research activities to teach you the latest thinking and trends in marine biology.
Our teaching is delivered through lectures and practical classes, tutorials, seminars, computer-based learning and online materials, fieldwork, field courses, guided reading and research.
There is one compulsory field trip in which you'll study seashore and inshore marine organisms.
There is also an optional residential marine mammal field course in Millport, Scotland, where you will learn about the biology, behaviour, physiology and environment surrounding this iconic group of animals.
An independent research project is a major component of the final year and often involves fieldwork, sometimes abroad.
There are also day trips or study visits to external sites and facilities, where you’ll get relevant experience and a practical grounding in marine biology.
Modules on the course are assessed by a combination of written assignments, exams, practical, team and individual projects.
A 40% exam, 60% coursework split would be typical for a module on this course.
An independent research project is a major component of the final year and is often carried out in association with relevant stakeholders.
The option to study abroad is available in year 3.
Marine biology students benefit from our study abroad links to countries such as the USA (including Hawaii, California, and Alaska), Canada, and Australia.
We encourage overseas projects in Semester 8.
Past student projects have been located throughout Europe, North and South America, the Indian subcontinent, Asia, Oceania and Australasia.
Susan Fitzer
Lecturer and Marine and Freshwater Biology Programme Director
+44 (0) 1786 46 7904
susan.fitzer@stir.ac.uk
We subsidise costs for field trips, but you’ll be required to make a financial contribution.
This course will enable you to use biological lab skills, use scientific methodology, and assess the scientific literature with critical appraisal and synthesise multiple sources.
The course includes an aquaculture module as the aquaculture sector is a major Scottish industry and employer of marine and freshwater biology graduates.
A second degree (MSc or PhD) is often needed if you want to advance your career to more senior research posts, and many of our graduates go on to pursue further study at Stirling or other UK and international universities.
Hear from graduate Nira who now works as a Senior Offshore Ecologist and Marine Mammal Specialist.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/mathematics:
Our maths degree will give you the skills, experience and expertise valued by a wide range of careers and businesses.
Do you enjoy numbers the way others enjoy music, poetry or art?
Do you enjoy using Mathematics to explain real-world phenomena and solve problems?
Mathematical training develops specific skills and broad analytical expertise, which are valued across all professions.
There is also a particular demand for graduates who not only have quantitative skills, but also know how to use them.
For example, you’ll use the mathematics computing laboratories as an integral part of your learning process, making your study as much experimental as theoretical.
Our Computing Science and Mathematics division provides a stimulating and supportive learning environment, and we’ve a strong and active research group.
Its primary interest is the application of mathematics to biology, economics and life sciences, and we offer combined Honours degrees in the relevant disciplines.
Since 2011, the University of Stirling teams have been participating in an international competition run by COMAP (USA).
In 2017 over 8,500 teams from all over the world took part.
It's a great way to gain research and leaderships skills.
In 2017 four of our teams finished in the top 9% in the world.
We have a vibrant Mathematics Society where you can develop further skills through team activities.
It's run by students for students.
Applied Mathematics can also be studied as a specialism.
English access course Access to Higher Education Diploma - 60 credits with a minimum of 45 credits at level 3.
In Semesters 1-3, you will take Mathematics plus two other subjects.
You’ll take core modules in: Calculus of One and Several Variables; Vectors, Matrices, Complex Numbers and their Application in Geometry and Systems Theory; Probability; and Analysis.
In Semesters 4-8, the course covers a broad range of skills.
Advanced modules cover the following key areas: mathematical techniques for solving a wide range of problems; the theory underlying these mathematical techniques; and model building, for example, converting real-world problems into mathematical form.
Teaching methods include lectures, on-line materials, practical classes, seminars, and individual and group projects.
Many of the course modules are assessed by means of coursework assignments, class tests and an end-of-semester examination.
In some modules class tests are replaced by projects in which you will solve problems based on real-world data.
Typically, in the final semester you will undertake a challenging project or series of problems under the guidance of a project supervisor.
Throughout the course, you’re encouraged to develop personal effectiveness skills to allow you to complete work in a professional and timely manner.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/software-development-with-cyber-security:
We’ve developed our BSc (Hons) Software Development with Cyber Security course with our business partners in the IT sector to help solve their skills shortages and address the industry’s needs.
According to the 2020 Scotland IS Scottish Technology Industry survey, about 100,000 people are working in digital technologies professions.
This is a growth of 9% since 2016.
The growth has been strongest in web design and development, IT business analysts, architects and systems designers, programmers and software development professionals.
Our computing graduates have an excellent track record in finding well-paid jobs because of our focus on in-depth practical expertise.​
As you study, you’ll progress from the fundamentals of computer systems and software development to advanced knowledge of Artificial Intelligence and Computer Security.
You’ll learn everything you need to become a highly employable and sought after software development graduate.
During year 3 and 4 you will develop skills in advanced topics including concurrent and distributed systems, cyber security, machine learning, and web services.
You’ll carry out an independent project in your final year under the guidance of a project supervisor, that will give you the opportunity to develop a major piece of work from initial requirements to final delivery.​
Within the University of Stirling many staff are involved in research projects in their subject area that allow them to link directly with business and freshen their knowledge.
Computing Science at Stirling is part of the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) Scotland-wide pooling initiative in research and knowledge exchange.​
Employers increasingly look for practical experience and extracurricular activities in addition to a good degree.
All students are encouraged to take part in activities that extend and utilise your knowledge – this includes participating in activities such as the student-led Stirling Computing Club.
Software Development with Cyber Security is taught as a very practical subject, and almost all modules include practical assignments.
Typically these count for 50 percent of the assessment grade, with the remainder given to the examination.
For an Honours degree, the grades for all advanced modules taken in years 3 and 4 are combined to give your final degree classification.
We help our students to build strong links with industry through three-month summer placements.
These are offered to third year students.
Year 3 contains a professional development course, which is designed to equip you with the necessary skills to secure a placement and, ultimately, a job.
From software development to data analysis, our computer science graduates have a range of opportunities open to them.
According to the 2020 ScotlandIS Scottish Technology Industry survey, about 100,000 people are working in digital technologies professions.
Jobs directly related to your degree include:
As a systems analyst, you’ll work on solving computer problems.
This might involve adapting existing systems or using new technologies to design a new software solution.
In doing so, you’ll design software, write code, and test and fix software applications.
You might also be involved in providing documentation for users.
Typically you would work as part of a larger team.
IT consultants work closely with clients and advise them on how to use computer technology and applications to best meet their business needs.
You’ll work with clients to improve their efficiency of using computer systems.
This may involve the adaptation/customisation of software applications, or the development of custom applications for the specific needs of the customer.
As well as technical duties, you may be involved in project management.
Applications developers translate software requirements into programming code, and will usually specialise in a specific area, such as computer games or web technology.
Often developers work as part of a larger team.
You may be in charge of developing a certain component or part of a larger application.
Our computing graduates have an excellent track record in finding well-paid jobs, especially as this course is designed to solve the problem of a major skills shortage within the IT industry in Scotland and the UK more generally.
Previous students have been very successful in obtaining suitable employment in a diversity of posts – with small companies, with major international organisations including Accenture, IBM, Google, Microsoft, British Telecom, Natural Power and major financial institutions such as JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley, as well as with local authority and government bodies.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/software-engineering:
Are you fascinated by the creativity of technology and software?
Our software engineering course gives you the skills and practical experience to jump-start your career.
BCS (Chartered Institute for IT)
Are you fascinated by the creative possibilities of technology and software?
Do you love solving complex problems as part of a team?
If yes, software engineering could be the career for you.
You’ll be in high demand for developing the systems that are the foundation and glue of our modern world, and that transform our experiences in communications, business, entertainment, gaming and healthcare.
Our degree will teach you creativity, logical analysis, problem-solving and how teamwork builds complex systems.
You’ll study practice and techniques for real-world software design and associated programming technologies, gaining practical experience in software development.
To help you build strong links with industry, we offer three-month summer placements and one-year placements with local SMEs and large corporates.
Students also have the opportunity to engage with an international teaching environment through our exchange programmes.
During Semesters 1-3, students from all three of our computing-related degrees (Computing Science, Software Engineering and Business Computing) take the same core modules in Computing Science, plus two other subjects.
Core topics include: Computational Thinking; Programming Using Java; Social and Professional Issues; Database Principles and Application; Data Structures, Objects and Algorithms.
In Semester 1, Software Engineering students must also take a Mathematics module that is specifically designed to help with their understanding of networks, logic and algorithms.
Semesters 4-8 cover compulsory modules - including Programming Language Principles, Software Engineering, Computer Security and Networks - plus optional modules, including: Artificial Intelligence; Web Services; Mobile App Development.
The combination of compulsory and optional modules give you the opportunity to explore your particular interests while providing a solid foundation of core computing concepts.
You’ll undertake an independent project in your final year, which involves the design and development of a major piece of software from initial requirements to final delivery.
Computing Science at Stirling has been ranked 7th in the UK in the 2022 Guardian University Guide.
Furthermore, the University of Stirling have been awarded five-star excellence for teaching by the QS Stars University Ratings 2024.
You’ll learn about Software Engineering through lectures, small tutorial groups and practical labs, where concepts taught in lectures are implemented and tested.
You’ll complete a number of modules that will involve team-based software design, development and testing.
We teach Software Engineering as a very practical subject, and almost all modules include practical assignments.
For an Honours degree, the grades for all advanced modules taken in Semesters 5-8 are combined to give your final degree classification.
Our Careers Service is ranked 2nd in the UK and top 5 globally for making good future career contacts (The International Student Barometer 2024).
They will not only help you to secure placements but also offer all the support and advice you need to plan your career, develop your employability or think about further study.
Software Engineering graduates are in high demand for both the software industry and one of the many fields in which computer systems are extensively used and developed.
Our graduates emerge from our course with a wide range of IT skills and our industry placements will ease your transition into the job market.
Recent destinations for our graduates include Verint, JP Morgan, Accenture, Logica, Microsoft, Google, HSBC, Capgemini, Natural Power and Adobe Systems Inc.

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/sport-exercise-science:
Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence provides the perfect place for you to study and kick-start your career in sport with our Sport and Exercise Science course.
Endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES)
Become a Sport and Exercise scientist with our BSc  Sport and Exercise Science degree and you can transform lives and sporting careers.
As Scotland's official University for Sporting Excellence, we place Sport and Exercise Science at the heart of everything we do.
We prepare athletes for success on the world stage and improve the health of the nation through physical exercise.
It's why we're 1st in Scotland for sports research with 80% of our research in Sport and Exercise Sciences classed as world leading or internationally excellent (REF2021).
Study our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree and you'll learn from our experts in sport and exercise physiology, psychology, biomechanics, nutrition, genetics, medicine, health and physical activity.
Our research and performance analysis laboratories enable you to develop your scientific and practical skills in a world-class learning environment.
Our course will prepare you for the many career opportunities available in Sport and Exercise Science.
Our research ranges from the molecular to the whole body level.
Our campus features a 50m swimming pool, ten tennis courts and seven sports pitches all on site.
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide named Stirling as the Sports University of the Year in 2020.
Our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree is endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES).
Essential subjects To include one of Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
The following HNC/HND's can be considered for entry:
If you do not have an HNC/HND in one of these subjects then you are required to have a Higher at Grade B in Biology, Chemistry, Human Biology, Mathematics or Physics.
Our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree is delivered jointly by the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport and the Faculty of Natural Sciences, combining a wide range of expertise to ensure an unrivalled student experience.
The course provides you with the knowledge and experience to become a sport and exercise scientist and work in areas such as sport, health or science disciplines, or to pursue a career in research or teaching.
In addition to conventional lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops and laboratory practical sessions, web-based technology is used to support the teaching course.
Assessment is by a combination of coursework, group project work, group and individual presentations and examination.
Full-time (three modules per semester).
Part-time (one or two modules per semester).
Our flexible degree structure means you can study the following modules from the BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science  individually as stand-alone continuing professional development (CPD) short courses:
You have the opportunity to study for a semester abroad through Stirling's well-established connections with several international universities.
Dr Niels Vollaard , Course Director
01786 466488
fhss.sport@stir.ac.uk
Students who graduate from our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree are prepared for many career opportunities working in sport, exercise, science and beyond.
Employers who have benefitted from Stirling graduate expertise include local authorities, commercial and voluntary sport organisations and governing bodies of sport.
Some graduates have gone on to postgraduate taught (Masters/MSc) and research degrees (MPhil/PhD).

New sentences found on https://stir.ac.uk/courses/ug/sport-psychology:
Study Sport Psychology at Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence to learn more about how psychological factors can affect athletic performance and gain the knowledge and skills for a successful career in the sports industry and beyond.
Accredited by the British Psychological Society
Sport psychologists help athletes enhance their performance and well-being through mental skills training, coping strategies, and psychological support.
Increasingly in demand due to growing recognition of the importance of psychology and mental health to performance, sport psychologists work across a range of sport, health, performance, and physical activity settings with an expanding demographic of clients.
Our BSc (Hons) Sport Psychology degree will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the diverse, complex, and wide-ranging territory of sport psychology.
The course will explore academic knowledge and practice associated with sport psychology, analyse psychological issues across a range of sport psychology settings (for example, from local communities to high performance settings), examine research evidence associated with sport psychology, and investigate a myriad of contemporary issues facing practitioners.
On this course, you will study topics such as:
Essential subjects Psychology
BSc (Hons) Sport Psychology is an innovative four-year course that will give you in-depth understanding of sport, exercise, and general psychology.
You will complete a novel research project related to the application of psychology to sport and/or exercise and have the opportunity to undertake relevant and exciting work experience within the sport industry.
Sport modules in Year 1 will introduce the importance of sport to individuals and communities, focusing on physical activity and health, sport and exercise science, sports psychology, sociology, and management.
You will also study mainstream psychology modules delivered by the Psychology department.
These will be on a wide range of topics designed to give you an introduction to psychology and provide key foundations on which to build, including laboratory practice and reporting.
In your second year, you will study a module focused on sport as a global phenomenon.
This module will increase your awareness and appreciation of the far-reaching impact of sport around the world by exploring not only the social, political and cultural benefits of sport, but also the less favourable impacts of sport.
Additionally, you will study a module focused on the foundational knowledge, theories and contemporary issues of relevance in sport and exercise psychology.
You will develop a knowledge and understanding of what sport and exercise psychology is and an appreciation of what sport and exercise psychologists are seeking to achieve.
Additionally, you will continue to study mainstream psychology modules delivered by the Psychology department.
There are two themed modules in Year 2: The Social Mind and Brain and Behaviour–Clinical Perspectives.
The Social Mind integrates material from social, cognitive, developmental and biological psychology, while Behaviour–Clinical Perspectives integrates material from biological and cognitive psychology.
You will also take a module in Research Methods delivered by the Psychology department.
In the first three semesters, you will be given the choice of one additional module from across the University.
This will broaden your knowledge in a range of topics and develop your academic abilities ready for a more in-depth and specialised exploration in sport and exercise psychology in your final two years.
In the final two years, you will deepen your understanding of the sport sector/industry by completing two subject-specific modules in sport and exercise psychology, and develop the knowledge, skills and abilities to undertake academic inquiry into sport.
All students take an Advanced Studies in Sport module to help them prepare for a major independent project on a topic that reflects their interests and/or career aspirations.
You will also complete a Professional Practice in Sport module, which includes a period of work-based learning and guest lectures on working in the sport and exercise psychology industry.
You will also study a range of core subjects: cognitive psychology, social psychology, individual differences, and developmental psychology.
These modules will provide opportunities to develop skills in group work, practical work, and experience of working with pre-school children.
You will also get the chance to sharpen your communication skills through group discussions and oral presentations.
We would encourage you to develop your knowledge, skills and experiences in sport and exercise psychology by engaging in voluntary and/or paid sport and exercise psychology opportunities beyond the course.
You will complete your BSc (Hons) Sports Psychology course as an independent learner, capable of critical analysis and communication through various mediums to a range of audiences.
You will have also laid the foundations of being an independent researcher, prepared for further study at MSc and/or PhD / Professional Doctorate level.
The Sport Psychology course will be delivered using a blended learning approach of face-to-face and online learning.
Modules will be delivered through lectures, small group seminars and practical classes.
Learning also takes places through a wide range of activities within and beyond these classes:
Materials posted online through our virtual learning portal will support this contact time.
The courses uses a wide range of assessment approaches.
The assessments are designed to improve and assess students’ attainment of the learning outcomes, critical thinking, problem solving, creativity, communication, and group working skills.
Coursework assessments can take the form of online tests, essays and digi-essays, reports, as well as individual/group presentations.
In the final year of the course, there is a sport professional practice module which involves a placement element.
The placement opportunity will either be
In the latter option, students may be tasked with, for instance, running a sport and exercise psychology event series, putting on a school sport event, running a webinar series around sports and exercise psychology topics of interest, running a sports tournament for charity or running an academic conference.
You’ll have the opportunity to study abroad through our well-established connection with several North American, Australian and European universities.
Dr Christopher Fullerton , Course Director
christopher.fullerton@stir.ac.uk
A sport psychology degree also makes you eligible for further study and training to become a qualified sport and exercise psychologist.
Having a sport psychology degree will equip you for a range of career options in sports, performance, exercise, and/or psychology industries.