# Site: https://www.sunderland.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk:
Close
Search
Play Video
Pause Video
Clearing is now open
Curtis Noon, BSc (Hons) Biopharmaceutical Science
Read Curtis' story
Our Clearing helpline is open.
Call us on 0191 515 3000 to have your questions answered, explore your options, and learn more about Sunderland.
You can also complete our online Clearing self-apply form .
Find out more about Clearing
The University of Sunderland is 6th in the UK when it comes to student satisfaction, according to the latest analysis of the 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) results.
Read more about the 2025 NSS results
Sunderland, London, Hong Kong.
We're local, national and global.
Sunderland has a rich history and one of the UK’s lowest costs of living.
City Campus is at the centre of our modern city, and is home to our main administration and support services, library, lecture halls, and our excellent sport facilities at CitySpace.
It is the centre for the University’s Arts and Design courses and the Northern Centre of Photography.
The Campus is also home to our main Sciences provision, housing our world-famous Pharmacy School, our Living Labs, School of Nursing and the newly-established School of Medicine.
The University’s impressive riverside campus is within easy reach of both the city and Sunderland’s miles of beautiful beaches.
Business, Law, Tourism, Education and Social Sciences are based here, as is the University’s main centre for Computing and Engineering.
Media is also taught here, at The David Puttnam Media Centre, which houses a cinema, industry-standard TV studios, lecture halls and the University’s award-winning community radio station, Spark Sunderland .
The riverside is also home to National Glass Centre, a renowned centre for glass design and innovation, as well as the impressive David Goldman Technology Centre, with over 200 computer workstations.
Based on Gloucester Road, University of Sunderland in Hong Kong sits in the vibrant neighbourhood of Wan Chai – a stone’s throw away from the MTR station.
Business, Finance, and Tourism are the key disciplines taught at our harbour-side campus in this exciting city.
The University of Sunderland in London , located near the Canary Wharf financial district, is a base we’re proud of having in one of the most vibrant cities in the world.
As well as professionally-focused courses in Business, Finance and Tourism, we also offer health-related programmes, including Nursing, Health and Social Care.
Our students have the unique opportunity to live, work and study in an internationally-diverse city that is steeped in rich culture and history.
With the Women's Rugby World Cup 2025 set to kick-off on Wearside, the University of Sunderland is getting ready to celebrate the opening match alongside the rest of the city
“This is a fantastic opportunity to support the city on a historic week as we prepare for the opening game of the Women’s Rugby World Cup"
Representatives from both the men’s and women’s squads were interviewed ahead of the opening fixture of the Women’s Rugby World Cup
“This was a fantastic opportunity to showcase our rugby programme and the best of the University of Sunderland"
A University expert has shared his insights into the status of women’s sports in the aftermath of the Lionesses’ Euro Cup win and ahead of the Women’s Rugby World Cup
"Opportunity, practice, coaching and investment has resulted in a vastly improved standard of player and team"
Play Slider
Pause Slider
Visit us
More info?
Useful links
The University of Sunderland
Edinburgh Building
City Campus
Chester Road
Sunderland
SR1 3SD
Main switchboard: +44 (0)191 515 2000
Course helpline: +44 (0)191 515 3000

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study:
Our forward-thinking teaching staff, state-of-the-art facilities, and strong links to world-renowned companies will provide you with the support you need to embark on your career journey.
We have a wide range of academic departments, offering short, undergraduate, and postgraduate courses in the arts and creative industries, health sciences, computing, engineering, education, social sciences, business, law, tourism, and more.
See our subject areas
Our students from overseas have the opportunity to experience living in the UK, to absorb its culture and language, and to make valuable contacts and friendships.
You'll gain not only an internationally-recognised qualification but also the skills, experience, and knowledge you need to develop a career wherever you choose to go in the world.
Join our international community
We have a range of 100% online degrees and blended learning degrees that have been expertly designed for busy working professionals around the world.
They combine the University’s core strengths of high-quality teaching and deep expertise in international and distance learning.
View our range of online courses
Don’t just take our word for it – hear what it’s like to study at the University of Sunderland from our current students and find out where our life-changing degrees have taken our graduates.
Student case studies
Delve further into your subject of interest with insightful articles and interviews with academics and subject experts.
Discover Sunderland blog
You can study with the University of Sunderland across the world.
We've been recognised as one of the top five providers of transnational education and work with partners to deliver our degree courses all over the world, including Malaysia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago, Kenya, and Vietnam.
We also offer distance learning opportunities to study University of Sunderland courses in your country, including the use of remote library services and e-resources.
Other ways to study with us
Study Abroad is an incredible experience that allows you to study for one or two semesters of your second year at one of our exchange partners.
The time you spend abroad replaces the time you would've spent in Sunderland, so there's no need to extend your studies.
Plus, the credit gained from the time spent abroad will be transferred back to your records in Sunderland.
Find out about Study Abroad
We offer degrees at every level, from foundation degrees to doctorates.
A degree is a qualification awarded by a university.
Degrees are awarded to those who complete a prescribed number of modules and/or credits.
Different degrees are mapped to various levels on the Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF).
Top up your knowledge or learn something new with our range of short courses.
We also offer a number of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses for working people that allow you to fit your studies around work or other commitments.
See our short courses and CPD
Transform your business performance and build your team with our advanced, higher and degree apprenticeships.
Our courses are a cost-effective solution for all employers and learners to acquire the latest higher-level industry skills and knowledge.
Higher and degree apprenticeships
Research practice at the University of Sunderland is stitched into the fabric of the institution.
For almost 100 years, researchers at the University have been challenging themselves and their subject to improve society across all its facets – from the early days of pharmacy to the support for heavy industry at its height, through to today's new sciences and advanced technologies.
View our postgraduate research degrees
You may have just missed out on the grades you needed, done better than you expected, or decided university is for you at the last minute, but no matter the reason, joining us through Clearing is easy.
Clearing
Register your interest and we'll make sure you receive relevant information about the subject you're interested in, reminders about upcoming events that are relevant to you, student case studies, and more.
Register your interest

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/subject-areas:
Take a look through our subject areas or view our course list and explore the range of undergraduate, postgraduate, online and short courses we offer here at Sunderland.
Sport and Exercise Sciences with Integrated Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Sport and Exercise Sciences
Engineering Management
MSc
Pharmacy
MPharm
Midwifery Practice
Sport and Rehabilitation Therapy
Business and Events Management
BA (Hons)
Physiotherapy
Paramedic Science and Out of Hospital Care
Medicine
MBChB
Fashion Design and Promotion with Integrated Foundation Year
Fashion Journalism
Journalism
Sports Journalism
Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy
Certificate of Higher Education: Preparation for Social Work
Pharmaceutical Science with Integrated Foundation Year
Pharmaceutical Science
Digital Marketing and Analytics
Nursing
Nursing (Top-Up)
Leading Volunteers
Integrative Counselling
MA
Advanced Safeguarding Adults
Biomedical Science
Business and Management
Certificate of Proficiency in Hearing Aid Dispensing
Cardiac Physiology
University Certificate of Postgraduate Study in Strategic Leadership
MSc Professional People Practice (Apprenticeship)
Healthcare Science Practitioner – Audiology
Healthcare Science Practitioner – Cardiac Physiology
Data Scientist (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship)
Digital Technology Solutions Professional (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship)
Biomedical Science Practice
BSc (Hons) Podiatry (Apprenticeship)
Occupational Therapy (Apprenticeship)
Learning and Skills Teacher Apprenticeship
Community and Youth Work (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship)
Senior Leader
MBA
Advanced Clinical Practitioner
Engineering Practice
BEng (Hons)
Leadership and Change via Study Centres
PgCert
Childhood Studies
Asthma and COPD Management in Primary Care
Mass Communications (Top-Up)
Occupational Therapy Accelerated
Audiology
University Certificate of Postgraduate Study in Mentoring and Coaching
Supporting Social, Emotional and Mental Health Needs
Clinical Psychology
Forensic Psychology
Psychology
Psychology with Counselling
Biochemistry
Cosmetic Science
Adult Nursing Practice
Mental Health Nursing Practice
Registered Nursing Associate
FdSc
Sports Coaching and Physical Education
Biochemistry with Integrated Foundation Year
Cosmetic Science with Integrated Foundation Year
Psychology with Integrated Foundation Year
Clinical Psychology with Integrated Foundation Year
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling with Integrated Foundation Year
Forensic Psychology with Integrated Foundation Year
Biomedical Science with Integrated Foundation Year
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education with Integrated Foundation Year
Computer Science with Integrated Foundation Year
Sustainable Design Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Electronic and Electrical Engineering
Sustainable Design Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year
Electronic and Electrical Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year
Game Development
Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics
Computer Science
Game Development with Integrated Foundation Year
Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics with Integrated Foundation Year
Primary and SEND Education with QTS
Primary Education with QTS
Physical Education with QTS
Mathematics Education with QTS
Social Work
Professional Policing
Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society
Education Studies
Criminology
Professional Policing with Integrated Foundation Year
Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society with Integrated Foundation Year
Education Studies with Integrated Foundation Year
Criminology with Integrated Foundation Year
Childhood Studies with Integrated Foundation Year
Law
LLB (Hons)
Law with Integrated Foundation Year
Esports Event Management
International Tourism and Hospitality Management
Tourism and Aviation Management
Tourism and Aviation Management with Integrated Foundation Year
BSc
International Tourism and Hospitality Management with Integrated Foundation Year
Business and Human Resource Management
Business and Marketing Management
Business and Financial Management
Accounting and Finance (with Professional Exemptions)
Business and Marketing Management with Integrated Foundation Year
Business and Management with Integrated Foundation Year
Business and Human Resource Management with Integrated Foundation Year
Business and Financial Management with Integrated Foundation Year
Social Media Management
Screen Performance
Photography, Video and Digital Imaging
Performing Arts
Modern Music Industries
Media Production
Illustration and Design
Graphic Design
Fine Art
Film Production
Film and Media
English: Creative and Professional Writing
Animation and Games Art
Sports Journalism with Integrated Foundation Year
Social Media Management with Integrated Foundation Year
Screen Performance with Integrated Foundation Year
Performing Arts with Integrated Foundation Year
Photography, Video and Digital Imaging with Integrated Foundation Year
Media Production with Integrated Foundation Year
Journalism with Integrated Foundation Year
Illustration and Design with Integrated Foundation Year
Graphic Design with Integrated Foundation Year
Fine Art with Integrated Foundation Year
Film Production with Integrated Foundation Year
Film and Media with Integrated Foundation Year
Fashion Journalism with Integrated Foundation Year
English: Creative and Professional Writing with Integrated Foundation Year
Animation and Games Art with Integrated Foundation Year
Fashion Design and Promotion
Counselling Children and Young People
Intrapreneurial 5 Step Process Improvement
MSc Tourism Scheme Top-Up (DL)
MBA Top-Up (DL)
Shoot, Edit, Share
Creative Skills for Business
Audio Podcasting 101
Tourism and Events
Emotional Intelligence Masterclass
Marketing Strategy Masterclass
Authentic Leadership
Coaching for Leaders
Introduction to Leadership
Strategic Leadership for a Sustainable Future via Study Centres
Undergraduate/Postgraduate Certificate of Achievement in Developing Practice in Clinical Skills
Fostering Equity and Inclusivity in the Workplace
Introduction to Climate Change and Carbon Footprints for Businesses
Professional Dance (Top-Up)
International Business Management
Project Management
Advanced Paediatric Clinical Management Skills
Level 7
Foundations of Ophthalmic Nursing Practice
MNurse (Adult)
MNurse
Postgraduate Diploma of Medical Education
Digital Marketing
Introduction to Project Management
Inequality and Society
Master of Medical Education
MMedEd
Master of Medical Education (part-time)
Data Science
Cybersecurity
Computer Systems Engineering (Top-Up)
Advanced Safeguarding Children
Enhanced Clinical Management Skills in A Critical Care Response to Acute Deterioration
Master of Business Administration
MBA / PgCert
Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists
University Certificate of Postgraduate Study
Certificate of Higher Education - Health
Fd
Enhanced/Prescribing for Health Professionals
Level 6 and 7
Foundations of Diabetes
Undergraduate/Postgraduate Certificate of Achievement in Advancing Contraceptive Health
Advanced Clinical Management of Chronic Disease
Learning Disability Contemporary Practice
Neurodiversity Research Collective: Workshops
Education in Advanced Clinical Practice
Leadership in Advanced Clinical Practice
Advanced Clinical Management Skills
Facilitating Learning in Practice/Enhanced Facilitation of Learning in Practice
Coronary Heart Disease and Heart Failure
Undergraduate Certificate of Achievement in Managing Common Ear Conditions
Certificate of Achievement in the Assessment and Management of Minor Illness and Injury
Asthma and COPD in Adults
Academic Recognition of Continuing Professional Development
Undergraduate/Postgraduate Certificate of Achievement in Care of the Older Person
Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Programme
English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper-Intermediate Online
English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate Online
Foundation Certificate
English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate Online
English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper-Intermediate
English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate
English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate
Health Professions Postgraduate Certificate in Education
PGCE
Psychology (Conversion)
Animal Management
Pharmaceutical Sciences for the Overseas Pharmacist Assessment Programme
MSc/PgDip
Master of Business Administration (Sports Management)
MBA Top-Up
Master of Business Administration (Supply Chain Management)
Master of Business Administration (Marketing)
Master of Business Administration (Finance)
Master of Business Administration (HRM)
MBA Master of Business Administration (Sustainability)
Finance and Management
Human Resource Management (CIPD accredited)
PgCert/PgDip
Management Studies
Human Resource Management
Professional Advocate Programme
Professional Nurse Advocate/Professional Advocate
Practice Education for Social Work - Stage 1 and Stage 2
Community and Youth Work Studies with Integrated Foundation Year
Teacher Apprenticeship
Level 6
Specialist Community Practitioner District Nursing
Postgraduate Diploma Apprenticeship
iQTS (DL)
Professional Nurse Advocate
Education
Medical Education
Education (DL)
Early Years Teaching (DL)
Health and Social Care
Clinical Pharmacy
PgDip/MSc
PgCert in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement
Counselling
FdA
Children's and Young People's Nursing Practice
Business and Management (Stage 3)
Accounting and Financial Management (Top-Up)
International Tourism and Hospitality Management (Top-Up)
Sustainable Tourism
Sustainable Design and Manufacture
Advanced Engineering Design
Media Production (Film and Television)
Tourism and Hospitality
Tourism and Aviation
Computing
Public Health
Sports Coaching
Customised Awards Scheme
Computer Systems Engineering via Study Centres
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship
Higher Doctorate
Existing Published or Creative Work
PhD
Doctor of Philosophy
Master of Philosophy
MPhil
Applied Project Management
Applied Data Science
Applied Cybersecurity
Applied Computing
Professional Practice
Marketing (Professional Practice)
Master of Education (Health Professions)
MEd
Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion (DL)
Special Educational Needs and Disabilities: Leading Provision and Practice (DL)
Advancing Counselling Practice
Primary Education with QTS (School Based)
Secondary Education in History with QTS
Secondary Education in Computer Science with QTS
Secondary Education in Science with Physics with QTS
Secondary Education in Science with Chemistry with QTS
Secondary Education in Science with Biology with QTS
Secondary Education in English with QTS
Secondary Education in Mathematics with QTS
Master of Business Administration (Chinese)
Secondary Education in Geography with QTS
PGCE Further Education and Skills (FES)
Counselling (Top-Up)
Mechanical Engineering (Top-Up)
Automotive Engineering (Top-Up)
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Top-Up)
Engineering Technologies (Top-Up)
Network Systems Engineering (Top-Up)
Banking and Finance (Top-Up)
Business and Marketing Management (Stage 3)
Childhood and Society Studies (Top-Up)
Education Studies (In-service)
Policing Studies (Top-Up)
Music (Top-Up)
Media, Culture and Communication
Artist Designer Maker: Glass and Ceramics
Diploma in Healthcare Science (Apprenticeship)
PgCert Enhanced Clinical Practitioner (Apprenticeship)
Pharmaceutical and BioPharmaceutical Formulations
Drug Discovery and Development
Terrorism and Cyber Warfare
LLM
Commercial Law and International Trade
Criminal Law and Procedure
International Human Rights
Extended Award
MA/MBM/MSc
Marketing
Master of Education (Higher Education)
Radio, Audio and Podcasting
Public Relations
Journalism / Journalism (Sports)
Design
Visual Practice
Social Work (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship)
Professional Graduate Certificate in Education in PCET
ProfGCE
Post Compulsory Education and Training Pre-Service
Health Professions
LLM Advanced Legal Practice (SQE 1 and SQE 2)
MA Childhood and Youth Studies
Higher Education
Mentoring and Coaching (DL)
Post Compulsory Education and Training (PCET) In-service
International Education (DL)
Investigative Management
Leadership in Criminal Justice and Policing
Certificate in Post Compulsory Education and Training (PCET) In-service
Cert Ed
Preparation for Academic Study: Progression to Level 6
Explore Learning Responses within the PSIRF
Masterclass
University Advanced Diploma in Management and Coordination of Family Liaison
BSc (Hons) Professional Practice
PgCert Infection Prevention and Control
Advanced Diploma in Investigations of Rape and Serious Sexual Offences (RASSO)
University Advanced Diploma in Investigative Interviews with Vulnerable Victims and Witnesses
In-Sessional English for Academic Purposes
CoA
Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion
Applied Investigation
Assessment Only Route to QTS
Short course
Secondary Education in Modern Foreign Languages with QTS
Secondary Education in Religious Education with QTS
Secondary Education in Business with QTS
Sports Coaching and Physical Education via Study Centres
Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics via Study Centres
Doctor of Business Administration via Study Centres
DBA
Community and Youth Work
Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion via Study Centres
PgCert in Professional Development for International Early Career Teachers (DL)
Master of Business Administration (Marketing) via Study Centres
International Human Rights via Study Centres
Commercial Law and International Trade via Study Centres
Law via Study Centres
English via Study Centres
Film Production via Study Centres
Information Technology Management via Study Centres
Data Science via Study Centres
Mass Communications (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Network Systems Engineering (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Computer Systems Engineering (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Mobile and Web Technologies (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Applied Business Computing (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Information and Communication Technology (Top-up) via Study Centres
Computer Science via Study Centres
Cybersecurity via Study Centres
Graphic Design (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Automotive Engineering via Study Centres
Mechanical Engineering via Study Centres
Project Management via Study Centres
Engineering Management via Study Centres
Media, Culture and Communication via Study Centres
Manufacturing Engineering via Study Centres
Electronic Engineering via Study Centres
Electronic and Electrical Engineering via Study Centres
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Business and Marketing Management via Study Centres
Business and Human Resource Management via Study Centres
Business and Management via Study Centres
Business and Financial Management via Study Centres
Clinical Pharmacy via Study Centres
Banking and Finance (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Accounting and Financial Management (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Accounting and Finance (with Professional Exemptions) via Study Centres
Master of Business Administration (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Master of Business Administration via Study Centres
Global Business/General Management Dual Award via Study Centres
Master of Business Administration (Supply Chain Management) via Study Centres
Master of Business Administration (HRM) via Study Centres
Master of Business Administration (Hospitality Management) via Study Centres
Master of Business Administration (Finance) via Study Centres
Business Intelligence Data Analytics (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Business Technology Management via Study Centres
International Tourism and Hospitality Management (Top-Up) via Study Centres
International Tourism and Hospitality Management via Study Centres
Sustainable Tourism via Study Centres
Practice Development via Study Centres
Tourism and Hospitality via Study Centres
Education via Study Centres
Health and Social Care via Study Centres
Nursing (Top-Up) via Study Centres
Professional Doctorate via Study Centres
DProf
Fashion Product and Promotion via Study Centres
Advertising and Design via Study Centres
Animation and Games Art via Study Centres
Business and Human Resources via Study Centres
Business and Management – Extended Programme via Study Centres
Design via Study Centres
International Business Management via Study Centres
Criminal Law and Procedure via Study Centres
Psychology via Study Centres

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Join us and embark on a life-changing journey.
Our selection of career-focused courses will help nurture and develop your passions and the ever-developing city of Sunderland provides the perfect location for an exciting start to your student life.
Apply for Clearing
The University of Sunderland is for the makers, the doers, and those ready to make the most of our proud, supportive, and collaborative community.
From our state-of-the-art facilities and experienced, passionate lecturers to a practical, career-focused approach that sets you up for success, choosing to complete your undergraduate at Sunderland is where your journey begins.
With at least 10 great reasons to choose us , you’ll find everything you need to take the first step into your future.
And you’re not just choosing our university, you’re choosing our city by the sea.
With shops, restaurants, entertainment, and beautiful beaches just a short walk away, there are plenty of things to do in Sunderland .
Find the perfect balance of study and lifestyle, and learn why you should come to an undergraduate Open Day.
As an undergraduate student at Sunderland, you’ll belong to a vibrant community of 27,500 students across our North East, London, and Hong Kong campuses.
You'll be taught by warm and engaging academic staff whose main aim is to help you get somewhere after you’ve completed your degree with us.
We have everything in place to set you up for your dream career; ranging from careers and placement support to entrepreneurial and freelance facilities on campus to help you set up your own business .
For your downtime, you’ll be able to explore everything that the vibrant city of Sunderland has to offer.
There are plenty of independent bars and restaurants for you to sample and even a couple of sandy beaches to enjoy, whatever the weather!
The University of Sunderland is based in the North East of England, with excellent transport links to Scotland, Newcastle, Northumberland, and beyond, so it's perfect for students looking to explore the best of what the UK has to offer.
Find out more about living in Sunderland .
We have two campuses here, and our City Campus sits in the heart of Sunderland so you can reach the shopping centre, restaurants, and bars within minutes.
Our second location is the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's which has a wonderful riverside location perched on the banks of the River Wear.
St Peter's campus is also a short walk from both Roker and Seaburn beaches, with excellent walking routes and views of the coastline.
Find out more about life on campus .
An undergraduate degree is an academic qualification at Level 6.
Typically, undergraduate students possess A-level or equivalent qualifications and are taking the next step in their academic journey by going to university.
Undergraduate degrees come in different lengths and subjects.
A standard undergraduate bachelor's degree has a length of three years, or four years if you choose to participate in an industrial placement or study abroad.
Depending on your chosen course, the title of your bachelor's degree may vary slightly.
You'll find that some courses may be a Bachelor of Arts (BA Hons), a Bachelor of Science (BSc Hons) or a Bachelor of Engineering (BEng).
The entry requirements for undergraduate degrees vary, so it's always best to check the relevant course page for your chosen course to see what it requires.
Commonly, an undergraduate course will require an amount of UCAS points from A-levels or equivalent qualifications.
The UCAS website has a handy calculator for you to work out the points you hold or may be predicted to gain.
For students who don't hold formal qualifications, there are other pathways to undergraduate degrees and this may be based on work experience.
Our integrated foundation degrees are the ideal pathway for students who have missed the required grades or have valuable experience.
Want to kickstart your career?
Placements are now available to all of our undergraduate students.
This offers you the opportunity to put your skills and knowledge into practice by gaining professional, hands-on experience in your field of study.
Our students have completed placements with the likes of H&M, Sunderland AFC, Australian Open and many more.
Most placement years are paid, so you can earn some cash and enhance your career prospects before you have graduated.
Learn more about completing a placement year.
Choosing to go to university and pursue a degree is a significant investment in your future and we want to support you during your studies.
With the cost of living rising, we know that affordability is more important than ever.
For our undergraduate students, we offer a selection of scholarships and bursaries to make your time at university more affordable.
Learn more about our undergraduate scholarships and bursaries .
The University of Sunderland is a top 40 UK university
World-leading university
We're 1st in the North East for teaching quality.
invested in the next 10 years to transform our facilities
Our city by the sea has beautiful beaches and a modern city centre.
Your personal statement enables you to share what sets you apart from other applicants.
It’s your chance to talk about your experience outside of the classroom, your talents, and what makes you interested in the subject or course you’re applying for.
We’re taking a look at some of the things to consider when asking yourself the question: is university really worth it?
And if you do decide to go to university, how you can make the most out of the experience so it feels fully worthwhile to you.
Undergraduate Open Days are a great opportunity to find out more about your course, meet staff and students, and look around campus, but there are some other great reasons to come to our Open Days.
International Study
Help and Advice
University of Sunderland podcasts

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pg-study:
Take your next step with a postgraduate course.
Learn more about our first-class facilities, study options, support networks, and answer those important questions you might have about postgraduate study.
Book a Postgraduate Open Day
With cutting-edge facilities, expert academic staff, and a strong focus on real-world application, postgraduate study at Sunderland gives you the opportunity to specialise in your subject, deepen your knowledge, and refine the skills that set you apart.
Whether you're looking to advance your career, change direction, or explore your passion in greater depth, there are at least 10 great reasons to choose us and make Sunderland your next step.
Find the perfect balance of study and lifestyle, and learn why you should come to a postgraduate Open Day .
Our postgraduate courses are career-focused and professions-facing, ensuring you have a head start in the workplace when you graduate.
Many of our courses are co-designed by employers, affiliated with professional bodies and our lecturers are closely linked to their sectors.
We also offer conversion courses that enable you to embark on a new career.
Most of our courses start in September and October, but we also have early starts from January to April.
No courses
Engineering
CID158
CID1545
Nursing and Midwifery
CID1083
CID1587
Hospitality, Events, Aviation and Tourism
CID1542
CID1519
CID916
CID1280
CID133
CID1368
CID1562
Social Sciences
CID1330
CID1588
CID1359
CID1258
CID1267
CID116
CID1336
Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Sciences
CID1129
CID210
CID1035
CID1507
CID1340
CID1559
CID1029
CID1028
CID1030
CID1506
CID1167
CID125
CID1444
CID825
CID1358
CID1032
CID1208
CID138
CID1437
CID1528
CID1529
Media
CID212
CID918
CID1312
CID128
Allied Health Professions and Public Health
CID722
CID1535
CID1420
CID1371
CID1429
CID1432
CID1322
CID1369
CID1357
CID1496
CID1288
CID1503
G381/Z067
CID1196
F894
Y360
U160
S184
J248
Y434
S252
CID1543
F8X1
T304
CID1081
CID1101
CID995
CID1331
CID1505
CID1248
CID671
CID925
CID1252
CID1278
CID674
CID1361
CID718
CID352
Journalism and PR
CID986
CID921
CID156
Arts
CID1405
CID1256
CID1257
CID1356
CID1518
CID1349
CID1360
CID1348
CID161
CID1033
Crime, Policing, and Investigation
CID952
CID1421
CID1403
CID1191
X018
3FB5
N1X1
CID1533
CID1532
CID1269
CID1390
CID1388
CID1342
CID1125
CID1394
CID1364
CID1124
CID1222
CID1393
CID1391
CID1392
CID1243
CID904
CID1050
CID1217
CID1271
CID1272
CID1270
CID1268
CID1395
CID1497
CID1091
CID1526
CID1447
CID1334
CID1425
CID1389
CID1363
If you’re looking to further your skills and knowledge in your field, progress more quickly in your chosen career, earn a higher salary or choose a new career path, postgraduate study at Sunderland could be for you.
You may need a postgraduate qualification to work in a particular role, or to embark on a whole new career.
Or maybe you're coming to the end of your undergraduate studies and want to enhance your knowledge.
You can be assured of high-quality teaching across our postgraduate courses, as well as access to excellent facilities, including state-of-the-art teaching and learning spaces in the likes of the Northern Centre of Photography, Murray Health, the Living Lab, and Wearside View.
We are ranked as a Top 40 university in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Over 70% of our published research has been rated as either world-leading or internationally excellent in the latest Research Excellence Framework.
(Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Whether you choose to study a taught course or focus on one of our research degrees, you'll improve your critical thinking and analysis skills, as well as deepen your understanding of your chosen subject.
If you're a current undergraduate student at the University of Sunderland, we'd love you to stay with us.
As a University of Sunderland graduate (alumni), you could be awarded a generous tuition fee discount if you return to study a postgraduate course with us.
For most courses, graduates who enrol onto a full or part-time postgraduate course will receive 20% off tuition fees.
To make things easier for you to apply, you can complete a shorter version of our postgraduate application form for most of our postgraduate courses – head to your chosen course page, hit 'Apply now' and select the button for current undergraduate students.
A postgraduate degree increases your earning power and enhances your career prospects, but postgraduate study can be a significant investment, particularly as the cost of living is increasing.
Here's what you need to know about fees and funding:
Course tuition fees vary, depending on the course you are studying and whether you are a home or international student.
To find out how much your course costs, visit your chosen course page – the tuition fee is shown on the top information bar.
If you’re starting a master’s or PhD course, you may be entitled to a government-backed postgraduate loan from the Student Loans Company.
If you’ve lived in England for at least three years prior to starting your course, and are under 60 years of age, you could benefit from the postgraduate loan of up to £12,167 for a Master’s course, and up to £28,673 from August 2023 for a PhD.
There’s no need to start making repayments until you’re earning £21,000 or more.
For more information see the government’s website .
We offer financial support in the form of scholarships and bursaries , from tuition fee discounts to subject-specific cash scholarships to support your learning.
If you want to talk to someone confidentially about how to finance your postgraduate study, you can contact our Student Financial Guidance team.
They offer services such as guidance on available loans, grants, bursaries and scholarships; help with applying for funding support; and offer information on the student support system.
We provide a range of services that you may need while you study.
From the Disability Support team to our childcare service, we want to ensure you feel supported to reach your potential during your postgraduate journey.
Learn more about our student support services .
Join us at our next Postgraduate Open Day to see our excellent facilities, meet staff and current students and discover what postgraduate study at Sunderland could mean for you.
We also offer you to chance to book one of our regular campus tours , delivered by our Student Ambassadors or a member of our friendly student recruitment team.
If you can’t make it on campus, personalise your own Virtual Experience and explore the University from the comfort of your own home.
Are you applying for a postgraduate degree and feeling confused about student finance?
The funding process for postgraduate courses is different to undergraduate study – here's our guide on what you need to know.
'MSc' and 'MA' are abbreviations of postgraduate degree qualifications Master of Sciences and Master of Arts.
Typically, an MSc covers fields such as sciences, mathematics, medicine, and allied health professions, while an MA is usually in arts, humanities, social sciences, and business-related subjects.
Are you thinking about postgraduate study but not sure where to begin?
To help you get started, here are our top reasons to study a postgraduate degree.
Online distance learning is a flexible way of taking a course without the need to attend traditional lectures at a college or university, with all of the course material being delivered online.
Distance learners studying with the University of Sunderland benefit from lectures and support delivered through our Virtual Learning Environment, which is accessible from anywhere in the world.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/international:
The University of Sunderland is a highly-respected UK university that combines academic excellence with fantastic student support and pastoral care.
As you would expect from a university that has been providing education since 1901, we offer a rich and high-quality education and facilities.
We're proud to be an innovative, accessible, and inspirational university.
Request a prospectus
If you choose Sunderland, you'll be joining a global community of students from all over the world.
Over 40% of our students come from outside of the UK and each year we welcome new students from over 100 countries.
We're 10th in Europe and 2nd in the UK for International Student Diversity (QS World University Rankings Europe, 2025).
You'll gain an internationally-recognised qualification and also the skills, experience, and knowledge you need to develop a career wherever you choose to go in the world.
Having researched the University online, I instantly fell in love with what they had to offer.
I enjoy learning about professional development and have improved my language skills while studying.
Sunderland is a calm city perfect to study, and the facilities were simply fantastic.
Sunderland has the perfect combination of city and seaside living and is a friendly, diverse, and affordable place for you to live and study.
The city is establishing itself as a national centre for arts, heritage, and culture.
Find out even more about what the City of Sunderland has to offer by visiting the My Sunderland website , or explore the rest of the North East via the Visit North East England website .
Whether you’ve already checked us out at an Open Day and want to know more, or you’ve never even heard of Sunderland, we’re sharing our top 10 reasons why you should choose us when applying for university.
Attracting hundreds of thousands of international students every year, the UK is a fantastic country to live and study in.
Here, we’re exploring just a few of the benefits of studying in the UK.
We’re sharing some of our top tips on how to find a part-time job as a student in Sunderland, including how we can support you, where to find the best opportunities, and how to make your CV stand out.
We caught up with Environmental Psychologist, Dr Stephanie Wilke, whose research specialisms include how natural environments impact psychological behaviour, health, and wellbeing, for her take on this monumental right of passage.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/scholarships-discounts-and-specialised-grants:
We want everyone to be able to access higher education, regardless of their background or circumstances.
As the cost-of-living increases, we understand how important financial support is.
Our generous scholarships and bursaries are financial awards that do not have to be paid back.
Apply now
Through our scholarships, we reward the academic achievements of our students, or the promise they show in a specific subject area.
Through our bursaries we support students from groups underrepresented in higher education, who we identify as being in most financial need.
Whatever you’re eligible for, remember that this is financial support that does not need to be paid back.
Managing your money at university can be a challenge, and with the current cost of living crisis, we know it’s more difficult than ever.
Here, we share some of our student money saving tips to help you try and keep on top of your finances.
There’s a lot to think about when applying for a university scholarship or bursary, so we’ve put together some of our top tips to help you with your application.
Scholarships and bursaries are additional sources of financial support.
Unlike student loans, these don't need to be paid back, so applying is a no-brainer.
To help you with your application, we've put together a list of our most frequently asked questions about scholarships and bursaries.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/study-abroad:
We provide a range of opportunities for institutions wishing to partner with us.
Our Study Abroad programmes focus on cultural integration, experiential learning and extra-curricular activities.
They also encompass a broad range of subject areas and can include multi-centre locations.
South Shields FC Study Abroad
We welcome students from all over the globe, as individuals or as a group.
Choose from a wide selection of modules and create your own personal programme.
Our Study Abroad co-ordinators will support you every step of the way.
Inbound (fee paying)
Information for institutions and students on our established partner Erasmus and Exchange programmes.
Inbound Erasmus and Exchange
We encourage students at the University of Sunderland to take the opportunity to Study Abroad with our international Erasmus and Exchange partners.
Sunderland Abroad

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd:
We provide short courses and continuing professional development (CPD) to individuals and businesses in various sectors to meet their training needs and facilitate growth.
The aim of this short course is to recognise, give academic credit for and promote Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
The course will enable any healthcare professional to utilise their own clinical experience, to gain academic credit and development at Level 6.
It is suitable for all registered healthcare professionals to apply.
Develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions in relation to chronic disease management.
Discuss, debate and review alternative approaches to care delivery.
Meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice with teaching of ethical and moral principles embedded.
Work at an advanced level of clinical practice.
Develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions by discussing, debating and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery.
Meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice and have ethical and moral principles embedded throughout your learning.
This module is a core module embedded in clinical practice in preparation for a Paediatric Advanced Clinical Practitioner (ACP) role and will offer students the opportunity to develop their advanced communication, clinical assessment, examination and clinical decision making and management skills in their field of practice.
This comprehensive 16-week course is designed for Nurses and Allied Healthcare Professionals at Level 6 or Level 7.
It provides training in the assessment, management, and care of minor injuries and illnesses.
This short course will enable qualified healthcare practitioners to gain the knowledge and skills required to care for patients with common respiratory conditions, including asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
This programme has been developed to be innovative in approach and develop theoretical and practical skills relevant for practice whilst promoting a holistic, patient-centred approach to management.
Take your career to the next level by building on your health profession knowledge and skills in our state-of-the-art clinical and simulation facilities.
This is a clinically and strategically relevant course for those who work in delivering contraceptive services.
This course mirrors our Contraceptive Health course, but the credits gained are at level 7, the same as our postgraduate degrees.
This course is delivered 100% online and can be accessed from anywhere in the UK and around the world.
Designed with military personnel, their families and veterans in mind, the Certificate in Higher Education programme develops further skills to enable this body of people to undertake a course which will prepare them for studying a degree programme.
The Certificate of Proficiency in Hearing Aid Dispensing course is aimed primarily at suitably qualified Healthcare Science Practitioners practicing within the NHS Audiology who wish to gain employment in the private sector or work across both NHS and private sectors.
The course aims to build on the existing skills and knowledge of CCOT (Critical Care Outreach Team) registered practitioners by providing scaffolding around the National Critical Care Outreach Competency Enhanced Level.
This short course, which can be studied at either level 6 or level 7, will help you develop the knowledge and skills required to care for patients with coronary heart disease and heart failure, promoting a holistic, patient-centred approach to management.
Examine the competencies required to work effectively with children and young people in counselling practice.
Draw on current evidence bases, research, and professional guidelines to evaluate your training, and personal and professional development.
Establish the extent to which you meet current best practice guidelines and develop an action plan to address any gaps.
This short course enables you to develop skills and knowledge in applied education, evidence-based strategy, teaching and learning theories and methodologies, coaching, mentorship, supervision, and critical thinking in clinical practice.
The course is aimed at those working at Advanced Clinical Practitioner level or as a Trainee Advanced Clinical Practitioner, and those looking to self-credential with NHS England.
Prescribing is an essential component of specialist and advanced practice for health professionals.
In this level 6 course, you'll work in practice with an assigned practice assessor who is also a registered healthcare professional and experienced prescriber.
This masterclass is aimed at matrons, governance leads, managers, and those working in/leading a multidisciplinary team (NHS and independent) who are expected to facilitate systems-based learning responses.
The day provides an opportunity to network across the Integrated Care Board (ICB), share experiences, ideas, and learning since the inception of The Patient Safety Incident Response Framework.
This short course is aimed at healthcare practitioners, helping develop skills in planning and implementing effective teaching, learning, and assessment within clinical practice.
This short course is designed for healthcare professionals who manage patients with diabetes mellitus, to develop their knowledge and skills in this area.
The assessment for this module will reflect achievement at level 6.
This short course focuses on equipping clinicians at the frontline of patient assessment, diagnosis, and management with the prerequisite knowledge and skills to make evidence-based decisions on the most appropriate and effective treatment pathways for patients presenting with ophthalmological pathology.
Study the only Independent Prescribing course in the North East that is accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
Provide patients with improved access to medicines.
Take on new challenges and opportunities that are unavailable to non-prescribers.
This short course enables you to understand, use, and apply leadership theories to a range of advanced clinical practice roles to inform, lead, manage, and develop healthcare services.
This short course is designed for registered and non-registered clinicians who have studied at level 5 and above, who want to upskill their knowledge of caring for patients with learning disabilities.
This workshop is aimed at Local Authorities, Third Sector/Charities, particularly for social work/education/community work/health but also open to any organisation who would find the workshop beneficial.
Gain knowledge and critical understanding of quality improvement methodology and methods and their use in the wider political contexts within the NHS.
Explore leadership and management skills for roles in strategic, tactical and operational healthcare provision.
Improve the experience of service users, clients and their families/carers.
This short course, developed and aligned to the National Infection Prevention and Control Manual, will support you in gaining knowledge and understanding of core infection prevention and control (IPC) areas.
This accredited short course aims to support registered nurses to critically analyse the role of the Professional Nurse Advocate (PNA), helping you gain the skills and knowledge required to lead and deliver quality improvements and facilitate restorative clinical supervision.
This short course will help you develop the academic knowledge and skills required to progress to Level 6 study at the University of Sunderland.
This may include qualified healthcare professionals who've achieved a diploma in higher education or an equivalent to a UK diploma level award.
This short course aims to support registered Allied Health Care Professionals to critically analyse the role of the Professional  Advocate (PA) and recognise the role in the current strategic context.
This masterclass will provide qualified PNAs/PAs with an opportunity to network with others, share expertise, resources and showcase sustainable quality improvement projects whilst celebrating success across the region.
The course will cover the anatomy and physiology of cell biology and cancer, exploring how it develops in the body.
It will then examine many of the anti-cancer treatments available to patients, their uses and side effects, including cytotoxic chemotherapy/monoclonal antibodies/targeted therapy etc.
It will also include wider exploration of holistic care, and the impact of these treatments on the patients and their families.
Further your skills and develop your undergraduate knowledge on the Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Programme.
We'll support you with specialist training and provide opportunities for you to network with fellow trainee pharmacists.
In this short course, you will learn about how we age and the issues we face, including some of the common conditions seen in older people and health promotion to support ‘wellness’.
Cultural bias and personal values will also be explored.
This module aims to equip those whose work involves managing patients who may present with conditions involving the ear to develop their knowledge and skills in this area.
The course is taught at level 6.
This short course trains you to carry out an in-depth history and conduct systematic physical examinations of different areas of the body including the respiratory system, cardiovascular system and the central nervous system.
You will also learn best practice in documenting and communicating your findings.
Understand what makes effective leadership in the workplace.
Develop confidence and satisfaction in your role.
Realise your potential as a leader to further benefit your business.
Explore coaching in the context of business leadership.
Understand the coaching process and the importance of setting goals.
Develop your existing abilities and qualities that will make you a successful coach.
Develop your leadership skills.
Increase your knowledge and awareness.
Reflect on your professional practice through the lens of emotional intelligence.
Explore your strengths in the context of informal and formal leadership in the workplace.
Incorporate your personal values and social awareness into your work.
Understand what makes you effective as a leader and use what you learn to benefit you and your organisation.
Learn practical skills and strategies to lead volunteers effectively.
Make a positive impact in a variety of communities.
Build strong relationships, maintain motivation, and ensure volunteers have a rewarding experience.
Develop your knowledge as a strategic leader in your organisation.
Identify your development objectives and how to achieve those.
Understand how you can contribute to your organisation’s success and growth.
If you are an experienced graduate teacher and would like to complete a formal qualification to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which is a requirement for those who wish to teach in state-maintained schools in England and Wales, this route is one of the fastest ways to gain QTS.
Do you want to improve your English?
Do you have an IELTS score of 5.0?
This 10-week course could be for you.
You’ll have access to modern resources such as digital language laboratories and an open-access language laboratory for independent study.
The course will allow you to improve your English language skills by the University of Sunderland’s equivalent of 1 band of IELTS.
You’ll also visit local and national places of interest and put your English skills to the test.
This ten-week course is for anyone with an IELTS (or equivalent) score of 5.0 who wants to improve their English.
Our experienced and supportive teachers will help you bring your skills up to the level needed to study your chosen University course.
You'll develop skills like note-taking, speaking in seminars, making presentations, writing essays and much more.
Do you have an IELTS or equivalent score of 4.5?
This 12-week course could be for you.
Our supportive and experienced tutors will help you reach the correct level of English to study your chosen university course.
You’ll focus on academic skills such as note-taking, contributing to seminars, making presentations, and writing essays.
This 12-week course is for anyone with an IELTS (or equivalent) score of 4.5 who wants to improve their English.
Our experienced and supportive teachers will help you bring your skills up to the level needed to study your chosen university course.
You'll learn skills such as note-taking, speaking in seminars, making presentations, writing essays and much more.
Once you've completed the course, you'll get a Foundation Certificate Achievement in English for Academic Purposes and be able to study the University course you've chosen.
Do you need to increase your current IELTS score?
Then this 6-week course could be for you.
Increase your current level of English from an IELTS score of 5.5 to the University of Sunderland IELTS 6.0 or equivalent.
Develop academic skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in English.
Put your English skills to the test as you improve your knowledge and understanding of UK culture through visits to local and national places of interest, and receive a Foundation Certificate of Achievement in English for Academic Purposes on completion.
This eight-week online course is for anyone with an IELTS (or equivalent) score of 5.5 who wants to improve their English.
Improve your English with free classes for registered students whose first language is not English.
Develop academic skills in reading and writing, speaking and listening, dissertation writing, discussion skills, and grammar.
Choose courses in general Academic English or English for Business Studies.
Get support with your main studies from our experienced and supportive tutors.
This Level 7 course is ideal for teachers or other educational professionals who want to develop their careers with a Mentoring and Coaching qualification.
You will gain knowledge, understanding and intellectual skills that you can apply to your own teaching position to enhance your career.
This short course is ideal for teachers, SENCOs, or other educational and care professionals who want to develop their knowledge of how to support children and families in maintaining good mental health.
Develop your creative thinking ability.
Develop a range of problem-solving techniques.
Address organisational issues and problems.
Develop effective digital marketing skills.
Understand your objective and create a focused plan for content creation.
Implement your knowledge to help your organisation and progress your career.
In today's diverse and interconnected world, fostering inclusive spaces that celebrate and support all individuals is essential.
This half-day training course aims to provide participants with a foundational understanding of equity and inclusivity in the workplace.
Given the continuing economic challenges organisations face, and the deficit of key skills for transformation improvement, this 12-week short course will target a cross-section of employees to identify organisational, departmental, and behavioural challenges and propose viable solutions.
Understand how your business is affecting climate change and how you can address it.
Consider the emissions your business produces and learn how to begin reducing your carbon footprint and operational costs.
Develop your knowledge and understanding of project management.
Understand the roles of good communication skills and timing.
Learn to apply project management techniques to build and enhance effectiveness in your workplace.
Learn how to develop an effective marketing strategy.
Understand how to research and plan what you need to implement your strategy.
Deliver a return on investment for your organisation and achieve your goals.
The course is designed for graduates from looking to pursue careers as digital marketers and business data analysts, managers who have already gained marketing and computing business experience and seek to further their careers as highly qualified digital marketers.
They are tailored to those wanting more flexible learning pathways or wishing to pursue part-time study.
The Certificate and Diploma in Human Resources Management, level 7 course has been designed to develop relevant and essential knowledge and skills in people management and learning and development and are a route into professional membership of the CIPD.
We'll prepare you for a future career in HR and support those currently in the early stages of an HRM career to attain a postgraduate qualification.
The Certificate and Diploma in Management Studies Level 7 short courses have been developed to provide you with a critical understanding of strategic management and provide a pathway to achievement of an MBA.
The short courses enable you to develop key competencies in management through a varied programme of lectures and applied learning through seminars, workshops and corporate engagement.
The PgCert/PgDip courses are particularly suited to those in the workplace, looking for more flexible learning pathways or wishing to study on a part-time basis.
This short course will help you to develop an advanced understanding of social work practice in the area of adult safeguarding.
Successful completion of the module will help you to evidence development along the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF) for social work (BASW, 2018), from Newly Qualified Social Worker to Experienced Social Worker.
Aimed at current practitioners, this short course will help you to develop an advanced understanding of social work practice in the area of child safeguarding.
This short course has been designed to enable employees with our partner agencies who would like to become social workers to develop the required academic skills to progress to the full professional qualifying BA (Hons) Social Work (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) course.
Practice Education for Social Work is an important area of career development for experienced social workers and demonstrates that social workers are practicing at the experienced social work level of the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF).
This qualification will prepare registered social workers for a role as a Practice Educator for pre-qualifying Social Work students.
It will enable registered social workers to demonstrate that they are working to the requirements of the Practice Educator Professional Standards for Social Work (PEPS).
This module will focus on the development of an investigative mindset to improve the management of Rape and Serious Sexual Offences (RASSO) investigations.
Reflect on your own workplace practice and consider how to improve investigation outcomes.
This module focuses on the management and coordination of family liaison for serious and complex investigations or major incidents.
You'll explore the roles and responsibilities of the family liaison coordinator and develop your existing skills and knowledge to enhance your own practice.
This module will focus on planning and conducting investigative interviews with vulnerable victims and witnesses.
Reflect on experiences from your own workplace practice and gain the skills needed to facilitate access to justice.
Master the building blocks of storytelling through podcasts.
Learn to sculpt using music, audio branding, and sound effects.
Understand your audience and build your own brand.
Create professional, shareable video content using just a smartphone.
Develop skills crucial for small business owners, sole traders, freelancers and professionals in marketing, communications, social media, or content creation roles.
Learn how to create high-quality video content in-house.
We offer short courses spanning across a range of subject specialisms, that support continuing professional development, allowing you to top up your knowledge or learn something new while fitting studies around work or other commitments.
We are committed to lifelong learning and upskilling to allow you to progress and achieve your potential.
We offer both accredited and non-accredited courses enabling individuals to use academic credits towards further study within five years.
As a University we are internationally recognised for the quality of our teaching and research.
We're an ambitious professions facing university with a global reach.
We provide uniquely tailored solutions for individuals wanting to upskill, as well as employers wanting to achieve their business goals and gain the maximum value from investing in short courses and continuing professional development (CPD).
By studying with us, you can:
Some of our courses and masterclasses can be accessed fully funded for Sunderland-based businesses and organisations through the Sunderland Skills and Inclusion Programme.
Find out more information and view available courses .
In today’s ever-changing climate, it’s becoming increasingly important for investigators to continue their own professional development to carry out their roles effectively.
Explore the progression routes in investigation available and how they can help your career.
CPD case studies
Student support

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships:
Our apprenticeship provision has been rated good by Ofsted (July 2024).
We offer higher and degree apprenticeships integrating academic study with practical application in the workplace, which can lead to a higher education certificate, diploma, degree, and/or professional accreditation or membership.
Higher and degree apprenticeships offer a combination of studying for a recognised qualification and valuable work-based learning, giving you the opportunity to earn while you learn.
For all our apprenticeships, you'll study with the University for the equivalent of a minimum of six hours per week, with the remainder of your time being spent at work.
Higher apprenticeships are Level 4 and 5 qualifications.
Level 4 apprenticeships are equivalent to the first year of undergraduate degree study or a Higher National Certificate (HNC), while Level 5 apprenticeships are equivalent to a foundation degree or Higher National Diploma (HND).
Degree apprenticeships are Level 6 and Level 7 qualifications, the equivalent of a bachelor's or master's degree, respectively.
If you're 16 or over, live or spend over 50% of your working time in England, and aren't in full-time education, you can apply for an apprenticeship.
You may have recently left school or college and want to enter employment straight away while working towards a qualification, or you might already be established within your field and wish to advance your career further by developing your skills and knowledge.
Our higher and degree apprenticeships offer modules that enhance your skills to effectively carry out the tasks you're responsible for, allowing you to progress and implement learning effectively into both your studies and your profession.
Specific entry requirements will vary depending on the applicant, employer, and apprenticeship you're applying for.
View a full list of our apprenticeships .
There are several benefits of undertaking an apprenticeship, and higher and degree apprenticeships are increasingly becoming a popular choice as they allow you to:
To apply for a higher or degree apprenticeship, you must either have an employer in place to support you or have applied for an apprenticeship vacancy with an organisation that's recruiting apprentices.
If you're interested in applying for one of our apprenticeships and have an employer, please email apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk , and we'll provide you with the relevant application link.
To search for apprenticeships offered by employers in your area, visit the gov.uk website .
Our apprenticeships team may also be able to signpost you to employers in our region who are currently recruiting.
We've strengthened our commitment to skills and workforce development through the acquisition of Access Training, an award-winning provider based in Team Valley, Gateshead.
This partnership enables us to offer a more seamless and comprehensive progression route for both employers and learners, combining practical, work-based training with academic excellence.
Access Training has been delivering high-quality training programmes to businesses and individuals across the north-east for over 40 years.
They offer a wide variety of apprenticeship programmes across a range of sectors, including accountancy, business and management, fire and security, and digital.
To find out more about the apprenticeships available, please get in touch with our team.
The Advanced Clinical Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship is a dynamic work-based learning programme that will develop the core capabilities and advanced skills, knowledge and behaviours required for advanced clinical practice across a range of disciplines.
This programme runs predominantly as a higher-level clinical apprenticeship.
Practitioners who are not accessing an apprenticeship are also welcomed.
The BA (Hons) Community and Youth Work (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) will allow you to develop your practice in the workplace and learn off the job in order to qualify as a professional (JNC) youth worker.
The course has been designed to focus on engaging professional development and you will undertake specific experience to enable your learning needs and demonstrate the necessary skills required by the apprenticeship standard.
This Biomedical Science apprenticeship will give you knowledge, understanding, and intellectual skills while gaining valuable on-the-job experience as a biomedical scientist in a healthcare setting.
The BSc (Hons) Healthcare Science Practitioner – Audiology degree apprenticeship will prepare you for a role as a healthcare science practitioner in NHS Audiology.
The BSc (Hons) Healthcare Science Practitioner – Cardiac Physiology Degree Apprenticeship will prepare you for a role as a Healthcare Science Practitioner in the Cardiac Physiology specialism.
This is an apprenticeship version of our popular BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy course.
The course content reflects current practice and has been collaboratively designed with service users, local health and social care providers and academics, with support and guidance from national bodies such as the professional body, the Royal College of Occupational Therapists, and the regulatory body the Health and Care Professions Council.
This apprenticeship is aimed at people who are assisting Podiatrists as foot care technicians or assistants, who would like to become a Podiatrist.
You will be employed in either the National Health Service or in Private Practice and will need to have the agreement of your employer in order to apply.
This five year undergraduate apprenticeship programme was designed and developed in collaboration with NHS Trusts and people who have lived experience of mental illness through the PCPI initiative, to ensure compassionate and competent person-centred care is in the hearts and minds of future registrants.
The Data Scientist Apprenticeship is designed to develop the technical and analytical skills required for a career in data science.
The three-year apprenticeship combines academic study with practical, work-based learning, enabling apprentices to gain valuable real-world experience while earning a degree.
Our IT Consultancy apprenticeship route is part of the Digital Technology Solutions Professional degree apprenticeship standard and has been developed in partnership with regional employers to support the enhancement of digital knowledge, skills and behaviours.
This apprenticeship is ideal for those that are working in a digital role within an organisation and looking to progress their skills and knowledge.
The Engineering Degree Apprenticeship suite consists of three pathways, Manufacturing Engineering Practice or Electronic and Electrical Engineering Practice.
The suite of programmes to support the degree apprenticeship standards, offer a mix of technical skills commonly found on engineering programmes across the sector.
This unique apprenticeship will teach you everything you need to know about managing people while gaining a triple award; Level 7 Apprenticeship, MSc HRM, and a CIPD Advanced Diploma in People Management.
Develop Enhanced Clinical Practitioner competencies aligned to the knowledge, skills and behaviours identified in the occupational standard.
Gain the skills and knowledge needed to work as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Work within an area of enhanced practice.
This postgraduate apprenticeship is delivered in partnership with local employers and has been designed to develop registered nurses (adult nursing) who wish to specialise in community district nursing practice.
This apprenticeship combines a masters degree, apprenticeship and the option to achieve Chartered Manager or Chartered Fellow professional recognition.
It is designed for any individual moving into a senior or strategic management role.
With our Social Work Degree Apprenticeship, you'll study for a degree whilst also gaining invaluable 'on the job' experience.
Choose from two level 6 pathways depending on your prior learning – the BA (Hons) or the PgDip.
Social workers improve the lives of a huge range of people.
You could work with people with learning difficulties, children and families, older people, people who have problems with drug and alcohol misuse, people who experience mental health problems, or disabled people.
This Level 6 Teacher Apprenticeship integrates practical experience with academic studies, including the theory of teaching and learning.
It is aimed at anyone who currently works in, or plans to work in primary or secondary school education.
This Level 5 Learning and Skills Teacher Apprenticeship integrates practical experience with academic studies, including the theory surrounding teaching and learning.
It is aimed at anyone who currently works in, or plans to work, in the post-compulsory education sector delivering vocational education and training.
Designed specifically for laboratory life scientists, the two year Healthcare Science Associate apprenticeship has been designed to enhance the skills and knowledge of individuals progressing to a band 4 healthcare science associate role.
Two apprentices who have graduated from the University of Sunderland have been recognised for their work at the North East Apprenticeship Awards.
Read more about the story
The University of Sunderland’s apprenticeship programmes have been rated ‘Good’ with one ‘Outstanding’ feature by Ofsted.
The first students to attend the state-of-the-art Northumbria Health and Care Academy have started their learning journeys.
A brand-new apprenticeship has been launched by the University of Sunderland to train the next generation of podiatrists.
During National Apprenticeship Week, one of the region’s charity champions has praised her University of Sunderland apprenticeship for helping grow her charity into the success it is today.
It was a real celebration of community spirit as the University of Sunderland gathered together to recognise their apprentices who have gone above and beyond to make an exceptional contribution to their communities.
To find out more information about our apprenticeships, please get in touch by emailing us at apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk or calling us on 0191 515 3361.
Worrying about your workload can bring on stress and anxiety so it’s important to know how to manage it.
Everyone does it differently, and here, we're offering you our advice on the best ways to deal with your university workload.
Apprentice case studies
Apprenticeship information for employers
Open Days
Student experience

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/independent-distance-learning:
Study an online distance learning course from anywhere in the world.
Learn alongside an existing job or commitment, or use the increased flexibility to pursue personal interests.
Benefit from our high-quality teaching and support without the need to come onto campus.
Our online and distance learning courses offer a truly flexible means of studying, as they allow you to learn from anywhere in the world that has internet access.
We offer a range of courses taught by this method, all of which benefit from high-quality resources and great support throughout.
Learning materials will consist of e-books, online journal papers, and other online resources, so there is never a requirement to come onto campus.
You’ll interact with other students in online discussion forums and your tutors will guide and support you via email, phone, and the University’s e-learning portal, Canvas.
An online distance learning degree is a qualification that's recognised internationally, and you'll develop the skills, experience, and knowledge you need to pursue a career wherever you choose to go in the world.
You can share and benefit from being a member of a global ‘community of learning and educational practice’ in each of your modules.
Our Education courses are at the forefront of our distance learning provision, having initially commenced over 20 years ago with the PGCE Education course in Dubai.
We now operate in over 60 countries across the world with a wide range of courses.
All of our courses enable you to share and benefit from being a member of a global community of learning and educational practice.
You're able to study in a flexible, independent, and well-supported manner, allowing you to achieve a recognised professional and academic qualification.
Find out more about the benefits of studying one of our distance learning courses in Education .
My study has been entirely online and I consider the experience one of the best decisions I’ve made.
The way the University dealt with distance learners made me feel like I was actually near them.
You never feel like you're doing it on your own; there is a lot of support from your personal tutor.
Take a look below to find the right course for you.
The 100% online BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies Top-Up has been specifically designed for ambitious registered nurses who want to top up their existing academic qualification to a BSc with Honours degree, unlocking progression into more senior roles and higher pay bands.
The course has been designed for individuals who want to launch a rewarding career in nursing and make a real difference to people’s lives, every day.
You will learn the knowledge and skills required of a Registered Nurse, and your learning will be directly aligned with the needs of the NHS and other health care employers.
The MBA degree is one of the most prestigious and sought-after postgraduate degrees in the field of management and leadership.
The applied nature of our MBA course will build on your previous managerial experience while moving you forward on a journey of practical professional development.
Do you want to gain an academic teaching qualification from a respected UK university?
The University of Sunderland has been training teachers for over 100 years.
Take advantage of our teaching expertise as we equip you with the skills to improve your teaching, while working towards a Certificate in Education (PGCE).
Do you want to develop a specialism in teaching young children up to the age of five without leaving your home country?
Then this course is for you.
We’ve been teaching education for over 100 years, and this course builds on the University of Sunderland’s expertise in teacher training.
You’ll explore how to assess development and how to lead Early Years provision, while working toward a PGCE in Early Years Teaching.
Qualify as a teacher with iQTS from anywhere in the world with this DfE (UK) recognised International Initial Teacher Training course.
Develop the skills and knowledge you need to lead colleagues in meeting needs of children and young people with special educational needs and disabilities.
This independent distance learning course can be studied from anywhere in the world.
Study from anywhere in the world.
Enhance learning and teaching for children with special educational needs and disabilities.
Develop your communication with colleagues, other professionals, parents and carers.
Study for the MA SEND from anywhere in the world and explore issues surrounding Special Educational Needs and/or Disabilities via flexible distance learning.
Do you want to open yourself up to career opportunities around the world?
Then this 18-month course is for you.
Teachers with a qualification in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) are in high demand.
You’ll combine theory with practice as you study various topics, including ‘Principles and Practice of English Language Teaching’ and you’ll teach a lesson at an institution in your own country.
Are you a Teacher or Educationalist?
Do you want to develop your professional practice?
This distance learning programme provides the opportunity to continue your professional development and acquire advanced research and study skills whether you are in the UK or Overseas.
Combine study with paid work or family commitments, and enhance your skills and understanding to equip you for various roles including teaching and educational management.
Are you a teacher in an international school?
Would you like to develop your professional practice?
If so, this distance learning programme is for you.
We will support your career development with a tight focus on the international school system and its challenges and opportunities.
Enhance your employability, while working towards a masters qualification.
This Postgraduate Certificate will help you develop your professional skills, knowledge, and pedagogy to make an effective transition from novice to expert teacher.
Study from anywhere in the world via flexible distance learning and accelerate your career and expertise.
Our BPS-accredited 100% online MSc Psychology course is designed for professionals seeking career advancement and individuals without a psychology background looking to embark on a career in this fascinating field.
The course offers a unique, integrated approach to core topics, applying a 360-degree psychological perspective to real-world issues.
This MSc Management course will help you to shape your leadership and management skills to become an effective manager and leader in the 21st century business environment.You will gain a deep understanding of the core business subjects, enabling you to put theory and contemporary thinking into practice.
It is delivered entirely online, with a flexible learning model that delivers academic content on demand.
This MSc Management with Marketing course helps you to develop your leadership and management skills, examining how aspiring marketing leaders can become effective managers and leaders in the modern world of work.
With a focus on leadership in marketing, you will gain a deep understanding of international marketing, marketing management, and global integrated marketing communications.
This course enables you to benefit from an entirely flexible online format.
Our online MSc Management with Finance course has been specifically built to provide busy working professionals with the opportunity to learn how to successfully manage, lead, strategise and innovate within the Finance discipline – without having to give up the day job.
The course is delivered entirely online with a flexible learning model.
With a specific focus on the organisational and people aspects of business and management, you will gain a deep understanding of international human resource management, organisational development, resourcing and talent management.
The course’s flexible learning model delivers academic content on demand, meaning that you can study for your Masters degree from anywhere in the world, on mobile or desktop, and can fit your studies around your work and family life.
This MBA equips you for strategic, cross-cultural and international roles in organisations where decision-making involves evaluation and analysis of challenging and fast-changing environments and the exploration of opportunities to implement change at a strategic level.
Lead the way in hospitality management with our 100% online MBA with Hospitality Management.
Delivering projects on time, on budget and in line with stakeholder expectations requires effective management across the project lifecycle.
The 100% online MBA with Project Management provides you with the tools to do so, developing skills in scoping, planning, resource management and project delivery.
The MBA with Healthcare Management will help grow your confidence as a leader, develop your data analysis, problem solving and innovation skills, and equip you to guide strategic direction in the healthcare sector.
You'll explore leadership in national and global health and social care settings with a critical appreciation of the issues, trends and ethical and diversity perspectives that impact on decision making.
The 100% online MBA with Supply Chain Management has been created for ambitious professionals who want to advance into and succeed in senior and strategic positions in supply chain and logistics.
It provides you with an in-depth understanding of global logistics and supply chain management and the design of sustainable integrated supply chains, in addition to developing enhanced leadership skills.
This 100% online MSc Computer Science has been designed for ambitious individuals who aren’t from a computer science background and who want to launch a new career in computer science or want to incorporate computer science expertise and knowledge into their current field as a means of accelerating their career progression.
This online Computer Masters is also open to professionals who work in computer science roles and want to gain an academic qualification to enhance their credentials and career prospects.
100% online MSc Computer Science with Data Science is ideal for professionals who want to develop data science skills to apply to their current role as a means of progressing their career and is open to professionals who work in computer science roles and want to gain an academic qualification to enhance their credentials and career prospects.
Studying the course, you will gain the knowledge and skills required to succeed in one of the numerous and high demand data scientist roles in today’s employment market.
This 100% online MSc Computer Science with Cybersecurity has been designed to provide individuals who don’t have an academic or professional background in IT or cybersecurity with the specialist knowledge and skills to launch an exciting new career in cybersecurity.
The course represents an excellent opportunity for you to develop cyber skills to apply to your current role as a means of progressing your career.
You'll learn to effectively specify, design, implement and support secure computing systems in the real world.
This 100% online LLM has been designed for lawyers and non-lawyers alike to provide a comprehensive legal education that can help you to succeed in legal practice, academia or a wide range of business and management career paths.
Whether you want to learn the legal skills to support your pathway to becoming a lawyer, are currently practicing law and are looking to specialise, or are looking to develop a legal profile in a role to accelerate your career progression, this course will provide you with the knowledge, insights and skills to help you achieve your goals.
This 100% online LLM Commercial Law has been created for both lawyers and non-lawyers at all stages of their careers who have an interest in the commercial dimension of international legal issues and who want to gain a robust legal understanding of the global business environment.
Whether you want to learn commercial legal skills, are currently practicing and looking to specialise in commercial or trade law, or are looking to develop a legal profile in the business world, this online LLM provides you with the knowledge, insights and skills to help you achieve your goals.
This 100% online LLM International Law is ideally suited to professionals wanting to specialise in public international law and provides you with a firm foundation in the fundamentals of the international legal system and international relations.
Open to both lawyers and non-lawyers, this online course develops a comprehensive understanding of international law that will prepare you for, or further your career in a wide range of sectors both nationally and internationally, including government, trade, law firms, businesses, industry associations and non-governmental organisations.
The 100% online MSc Nursing Studies has been designed to equip ambitious healthcare practitioners in the UK and across the world with the knowledge, skills and network to succeed in senior Nursing, midwifery and healthcare roles and to advance to higher pay bands, or develop greater depth and understanding within their current roles and scope of practice.
Designers work to enhance and enrich a wide variety of projects, enhancing the appeal and function of objects, processes, and systems.
Release your inner creative and help businesses engage their users with our 100% online MDes Design.
Animators use the power of motion to inspire audiences and breathe life into a wide variety of design projects.
Help businesses take their creative outputs to the next level and realise your imaginative ambitions with our 100% online MDes Design with Animation.
Graphic designers combine colour, shape, and form to convey meaning and create designs that motivate, inspire, and engage.
Use your imagination and creativity to help employers develop and deliver their brands to a wide range of audiences with our 100% online MDes Design with Graphic Design.
Careers in fashion combine art, aesthetics, and versatility to support the creative world around what we wear.
Put your business nous and artistic flair to good use in this exciting and enduring industry with our 100% online MDes Design with Fashion Design.
Developed for military personnel, their families and veterans.
Use the skills and knowledge you acquire to progress onto a health-related honours degree of your choice.
Study a DL PGCE and learn to teach from anywhere in the world
Virtual Experience
Student and graduate case studies
Chat to our staff and students

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/late-applicants:
Is it too late to apply to university?
If you've missed the 2025 UCAS deadline, don't worry – it's not too late to apply and there are still plenty of options available to you.
Come see us at an Open Day
Details of how to apply for each course can be found by clicking the red 'apply now' button on the top right-hand side of the course page.
Why wait?
Find out more about how to submit your undergraduate application as well as some key UCAS dates below.
How to apply for university
It’s important to consider if the university experience is right for you, and if it aligns with your learning style and career goals.
Luckily for you we've written an article to help you decide.
Is university worth it?
We're proud of our career-focused courses.
Take a look through our subject areas and discover the range of undergraduate degrees you can study here at Sunderland.
Browse our subject areas and courses
We understand that going to university can be a big financial decision.
That's why we offer a range of generous scholarships and bursaries – money which doesn't have to be paid back.
Check if you're eligible for a scholarship or bursary
Coming to university has been an incredible personal journey.
My experiences so far have been amazing.
The University is a terrific place to laugh, learn and live.
While moving away to a new city can be exciting, there are still plenty of reasons why living at home to study is also a fantastic option.
Discover more about why you should consider living at home for university.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/register-interest:
We'd like to keep you informed about studying with us.
Register your interest and we'll make sure you receive relevant information about the subject you're interested in, reminders about upcoming events that are relevant to you, student and graduate case studies, and more.
If you are a parent/guardian or supporter of someone looking to study, please complete our parents and supporters form .
If you are a teacher, please complete our teachers form .
Moving to a new city can be a daunting experience, so to help you settle into your new home, we’ve compiled a list of some of the best things to do in Sunderland when you want to take a break from studying.
From shopping and entertainment to exploring the outdoors and local culture, find out more about some of our favourite places to visit both in Sunderland and nearby.
In 2023, Sunderland City Council confirmed that over £400 million would be invested in the city over the next four years.
We’ve highlighted some of the top developments you can look forward to if you choose to join us as a student at the University of Sunderland.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/prospectus:
If you are a prospective student looking to study, please complete the form below to request a digital copy of our prospectus.
If you are the parent/guardian or supporter of someone looking to study, please complete our parents form .
Using your personal information
For information on cookies used on this page, please visit the Cookies Policy page .
After you have submitted this online form you will receive an email confirming your request.
We will add your details to our database so that we can provide you with the latest information on the areas you have requested, plus University news and events.
By submitting this form you are agreeing to receive email, postal and telephone communication from the University of Sunderland based on the preferences you have previously selected.
Further information on how your data is stored and used can be found in our Privacy notice - marketing .
The data may also be shared with the Higher Education Access Tracker service subscribers for the tracking of final destinations as part of the UK Government’s policy to widen participation in higher education and to develop future policy.
You may choose to unsubscribe from these communications or change your preferences of communication at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link which will appear on the emails you receive or by contacting the Student Helpline on the details below, providing your first and last name and date of birth and how you would prefer to be contacted.
Email: student.helpline@sunderland.ac.uk Telephone: +44(0)191 515 3000
You also have the right to a copy of the data held about you.
Requests should be made in writing to:
The Data Protection Officer 4th Floor, Edinburgh Building Chester Road Sunderland SR1 3SD
Alternatively, email dataprotection@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/open-days:
The University of Sunderland is for the makers, the doers, and those who are willing to make the most of our proud, supportive, and collaborative community .
Visit us at one of our Open Days or other events throughout the year to see for yourself what Sunderland really has to offer.
We’re the University of Sunderland, and we make it happen.
For international students, we also offer webinars and events in your country.
View all upcoming international events and explore Sunderland online with our virtual tour .
Join our Open Day to explore our fantastic campus.
This event is for anyone interested in undergraduate study in 
Crime, Policing and Investigation, Law, Social Sciences, and Teacher Training and Education.
Learn more about your chosen course, speak to current students, and explore your future university.
This event is for anyone interested in undergraduate study in 
Animation, Art and Design, English, Journalism and PR, Media, Performance, and Photography.
This event is for anyone interested in undergraduate study in 
Business, Computer Science, Engineering, Hospitality, Events, Aviation and Tourism.
This event is for anyone interested in undergraduate study in 
Allied Health Professions, Healthcare Sciences, Medicine, Nursing and Midwifery, Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Science, Psychology, and Sport and Exercise Sciences.
We recognise that everyone has different accessibility needs which is why we have partnered with AccessAble, the UK’s leading provider of detailed disabled access information.
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for support with planning your journey to visit the University.
Learn more about our achievements .
Friday, September 19, 2025 - Friday, September 19, 2025
9:30 AM - 3:30 PM
Thursday, October 2, 2025 - Thursday, October 2, 2025
5:00 PM - 6:00 PM
Thursday, November 27, 2025 - Thursday, November 27, 2025
6:00 PM - 7:30 PM
Monday, December 1, 2025 - Monday, December 1, 2025
5:00 PM - 6:30 PM
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 - Tuesday, September 30, 2025
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 - Tuesday, September 9, 2025
5:00 PM - 6:15 PM
Wednesday, November 19, 2025 - Wednesday, November 19, 2025
9:30 AM - 3:00 PM
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 - Wednesday, October 22, 2025
Thursday, September 25, 2025 - Thursday, September 25, 2025
9:45 AM - 3:00 PM
Sunday, October 12, 2025 - Sunday, October 12, 2025
10:00 AM - 4:00 PM
Friday, October 17, 2025 - Friday, October 17, 2025
10:00 AM - 1:00 PM
Find out how university could be the best option for you, and h ow to make the most of your higher education experience.
Read more about Learn more about the benefits of university
Undergraduate Open Days are a great opportunity to find out more about your course, meet staff and students, and look around campus, but there are some other great reasons to come to our Open Days – here are just a few.
Read more about our Undergraduate Open Days
Our Postgraduate Open Days are a great opportunity to learn more about the courses we offer, meet academic staff, and speak to experts about student finance and accommodation options.
Read more about our Postgraduate Open Days

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/events:
Our University of Sunderland events programme offers something for everyone, from art exhibitions and performances to training workshops and public lectures.
Here you will also find information about our recruitment events and opportunities to explore our modern facilities.
If you’re interested in hosting an event at one of our campuses or commercial venues then please visit Venue Sunderland for more information.
Topic - Schools and Colleges
Our Medicine Masterclass is ideal for sixth form and college students , teachers, advisers, parents, supporters, and postgraduate degree holders interested in studying or learning more about MBChB Medicine for a 2026/27 intake if Year 13 or 2027/28 for those in Year 12.
Topic - Talks and Lectures
This event focuses on research in governance and governing in the education sector.
Join our Nursing Admissions Tutors who will delve into what will make your personal statement stand out from the crowd.
Monday, September 22, 2025 - Monday, September 22, 2025
5:30 PM - 6:30 PM
Topic - Open Events, Schools and Colleges
National Manufacturing Day takes place this year on Thursday 25 September.
Join us at the University of Sunderland, a pledged employer and participant, in this fantastic opportunity to engage in interactive workshops relating to sustainable design engineering.
Topic - Talks and Lectures, Schools and Colleges
Join us for this online session to discover more about our Performing Arts and Screen Performance courses, and the different opportunities and routes into industry they provide upon graduation.
Join us for this online session to discover more about our Film and Media courses, and the different opportunities and routes into industry they provide upon graduation.
Topic - Exhibitions and Performances
In celebration of World Anatomy Day, the University of Sunderland alongside Teesside, Durham and Newcastle universities are hosting a fun-filled anatomy event at The Fire Station, Sunderland, on 12 October 2025.
Join academics from our Physiotherapy and Sport and Rehabilitation Therapy courses as they celebrate National Bone and Joint Week with this interactive event.
A powerful screening and discussion of The Sound of Freedom film, through a criminological lens.
Join us for a day celebrating the 30th anniversary of Toy Story, a film that not only revolutionised animation but captured the imagination of children and adults around the world.
Topic - Online
You’ve met us at a higher education fair or in your school or college, now it’s time to really get to know Sunderland.
Your adventure starts here!
Wednesday, November 26, 2025 - Wednesday, November 26, 2025
Join us for an informative session with our nursing admissions tutors who will help you to optimise your interview performance.
Master your Physiotherapy interview, level up your interview skills.
Master your Occupational Therapy interview, level up your interview skills.
Join us for an overview of the interview process for BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science and Out of Hospital Care and what you can expect on the day.
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 - Wednesday, December 3, 2025
Can't visit us?
Find out more about the University from the comfort of your own home.
Tailor your experience and explore 360-degree images of our campuses and facilities.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/open-days/applicant-experience:
Offer holder and applicant events are your chance to get a taste of what life here at the University of Sunderland is really like.
They are a fantastic opportunity to speak to our staff and students, view our facilities, learn about your course, and much much more.
Offer holder and applicant events are invite-only, so keep checking your inbox for further information.
We understand how important it is that you have all the information you need to make an informed decision about your application.
To show you why Sunderland is such a great place to study, we host a series of events and activities for offer holders and applicants throughout the year.
These events will give you the opportunity to:
You'll be invited to an event for your chosen course via email.
If you apply for a course that requires an interview, your application will be reviewed by our admissions team as part of a shortlisting process.
You'll then receive an email from us with your next steps, such as how to book and prepare for your interview, so keep an eye on your inbox.
For any queries regarding the status of your offer please contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk .
For any queries regarding your interview please contact applicant.interviews@sunderland.ac.uk .
Please note, some courses may not hold offer holder and applicant events.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/open-days/tours:
Unable to make it to an Open Day?
Our campus tours are a brilliant way for you to see what we offer before you join us.
On your tour, you'll get the chance to look around the campus that your course of interest is based at, including the general facilities such as study spaces, social areas, and the library.
Our expert student ambassadors will be on hand to answer any questions you may have, providing you with the inside scoop on student life at Sunderland.
Our campus tours are available Tuesday to Friday, 9am to 4:30pm, and last approximately 45 minutes.
Accommodation tours may be available upon request and are subject to availability.
Please include your preferred date and time when submitting your campus tour request form.
If you live outside of the United Kingdom, please contact international.office@sunderland.ac.uk to arrange a tour.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/graduationlive:
The ceremony is a celebration of all of our graduating students' achievements – a truly unforgettable day.
Students and their guests visit the Stadium of Light for the ceremony as students receive their awards.
Watch our graduation ceremonies live
Anyone unable to live stream the graduation ceremonies they will be availble on demand here.
You can view past graduations here .
Your graduation ceremony marks the culmination of all your hard work as you are formally presented with your certificates and awards.
The ceremony is a celebration of all of our graduating students’ achievements and we aim to make it an unforgettable day for you and your family.
Graduation ceremonies are currently held at the Stadium of Light.
Summer ceremonies take place outside in the West Stand.
Starting in January 2026, our ceremonies will be moving to The Fire Station, at the centre of the city's cultural transformation.
All ceremonies are presided over by the University Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor.
They follow the procession party out at the start of each ceremony and personally congratulate every graduation student on the stage.
Once you graduate you automatically become a member of the University’s Alumni Association and will have access to a whole range of benefits and services.
Join our online community .
Our winter ceremonies take place 12–16 January 2026 at The Fire Station, Sunderland.
The University is partnered with MyGraduationClip who offer a video of the moment you cross the stage and receive your award, which you can buy and share with family and friends.
Your personalised video will feature your name, graduation date and degree award.
After your ceremony you will receive an email from MyGraduationClip.
If you would like to order your video you can click on a link in the email which will take you to an option to buy it for £9.99.
The video will be made available to you immediately, and you are free to download it, share it on social media, and so on.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/fees-funding-support:
Find your course costs, learn about financial support (including scholarships and bursaries), and explore our tips on managing the cost of living as a student in Sunderland.
Find out how much your course costs, how to apply for and repay a tuition fee loan, and how we use your fees to improve your student experience.
Tuition fees and student loans
As the cost of living increases, we understand how important financial support is.
We can help you in various ways, including guidance and advice, student support funds, and more.
Financial support
Whatever you’re eligible for, this is financial support that does not need to be paid back.
Scholarships and bursaries
Explore all you need to know as a student about working during and after university, including information around placement years, part-time job opportunities, and more.
Placements and job opportunities
The north-east of England is one of the most affordable areas of the UK to live and Sunderland is one of the cheapest cities.
Explore all you need to know about the cost of living in Sunderland including our top budgeting tips, part-time jobs support, scholarship information, student discounts, and more.
Cost of living

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/fees-funding-support/tuition-fees:
Tuition fees vary depending on whether you are a UK, EU or international student.
Learn more about your course costs .
You may be able to apply for a tuition fee loan to help pay your tuition fees, or you can pay your tuition fees easily and securely online.
Learn more about paying your fees .
You'll start repaying your student loan after you have graduated, usually the first April after you leave your course.
Learn more about repaying your student loans .
We invest heavily in the student experience, providing a supportive and empowering learning environment.
Find out how we invest your fees .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/fees-funding-support/financial-support:
We can help you in various ways, including offering guidance and advice, student support funds, and more.
Our Student Financial Guidance team can help you with anything from budgeting, to guidance on loans and grants and helping you apply for funding support.
You can get expert help before you even apply for university.
The service is free, confidential, impartial and non-judgemental.
For support, contact the team at studentfinancialguidance@sunderland.ac.uk or on 0191 515 2284.
You may be eligible to apply for the Student Support Fund.
This is a discretionary fund that provides students with a non-repayable award to support them with unforeseen costs or changes to their financial situation.
This isn't a scholarship or bursary and can't provide large sums to those who haven't made realistic provisions e.g.
debt owed to the University, tuition fees, or visa and immigration-related expenses.
If you have any questions or would like to apply for the fund, please email us at studentsupportfund@sunderland.ac.uk .
Managing a student budget can be challenging.
Here are some ways we can support you that you might not know about:
Scam and fraud is becoming more common in England and Wales.
It's particularly prevalent among students who may be away from home or in need of financial support, as well as those who are new to the country and may not yet have a UK bank account, like international students.
Although, anyone can be subject to these crimes.
We've put together some tips on what to look out for, how to protect yourself and how to keep your money safe .
In addition to the scholarships and bursaries we offer, you may be entitled to financial support from grants.
You'll need to make an application directly with the Government or service.
Financial support to cover university fees and maintenance costs.
The aim of this scheme to give the children of those who died in service and whose death was attributable to service, a scholarship to help cover some of the costs incurred in obtaining a university degree.
Up to £14,200 to cover tuition and maintenance fees.
You can apply via the Government website.
The application must be received by 31 January in the academic year for which the scholarship is to apply.
Applications submitted after this deadline will be considered on a case-by-case basis and may be approved in exceptional circumstances.
Scholarships will be paid to either the parent or guardian or directly to the bereaved child.
Three payments will be made each year by 31 October, 31 January and 30 April or as soon as confirmation has been received from the University of Sunderland that you have registered and are attending the specific course.
For full details of scholarship rates, terms and conditions, and how to apply, see the Government website .
ELCAS stands for the Enhanced Learning Credits Administrations Services.
It is a scheme that allows for members of the Armed Forces access to lifelong learning through financial support.
ELCAS funding is available for military personnel, veterans and reservists, and is open to both currently serving personnel and those who have left.
The ELCAS scheme provides financial support in the form of a single upfront payment in each of a maximum of three separate financial years.
You can make a total of three ELCAS claims in total, but only one per financial year.
To find more information on how much you’re eligible for visit the ELCAS website.
You can apply by setting up an account on the ELCAS website and following the process.
There are several stages to the ELC process.
Full information is set out in Joint Service Publications (JSP) 822.
If applying for the University of Sunderland you will need to mention our Learning Provider Reference number, which is 1290.
You can apply throughout the year.
You'll need to apply for ELCAS funding at least five weeks before the start of your course.
It depends on the financial support you apply for.
Full details will be available once you create an account on the ELCAS website.
If you have a disability or a specific learning condition such as dyslexia, you can get a Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) to help to pay for any equipment and support you need.
Full-time and part-time undergraduates and postgraduates are eligible for the DSA on top of any other loans, grants and bursaries.
Full details of what you may be entitled to can be found on the gov.uk website.
Apply via the gov.uk website and you can apply at any time.
Money is paid either into your bank account or directly to the organisation providing the service or equipment.
You’ll get confirmation of whether your application is successful within six weeks.
It can take up to 14 weeks to get your DSA support in place as this is done separately.
Full details of what you may be entitled to, terms and conditions, and how to apply can be found on the Government's website .
Support with your learning costs if you're a parent.
Full-time students with children under 15.
You could get up to 85% of your childcare costs covered.
You can apply online as part of your main student finance application.
Details of when to apply should be available on your student finance portal.
You'll need to create an online account with the Childcare Grant Payment Service (CCGPS).
You’ll get an email telling you how to set one up.
Your grant will be paid into this account.
See the gov.uk website for details.
For full details, terms and conditions, and how to apply, see the Government's website .
A non-repayable payment of £5,000 to eligible home students each academic year.
Additional payments worth up to a total of £3,000 per academic year for students in specialisms or regions struggling to recruit or to help students cover childcare costs.
Full-time, undergraduate students on the following courses: Nursing (Adult, Mental Health, Children's and Young People's, and MNurse), Midwifery Practice, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy and Paramedic Science.
Up to £8,000, depending on where you are located.
You apply online through the NHS Business Services Authority website.
You can apply from the March prior to your academic year starting.
For current students, you can apply from the April prior to your next academic year.
All applications must be submitted within six months of the start of the academic year.
Full details of how you'll be paid can be found on the NHS Business Services Authority website.
Payments will be scheduled over the academic year in three instalments.
Full details about the NHS Learning Support Fund Training Grant can be found on the NHS Business Services Authority website .
Here are some other ways we can support you financially including travel expenses and teacher training funding.
If you've attended a placement as part of your course, you may be able to claim back:
This is for Nursing and Allied Health Professional course students who receive the NHS Learning Support Fund.
You have to receive the NHS Learning Support Training Grant before you can claim.
To claim, please follow the instructions on the NHS Business Services Authority Website .
You may be able to get additional funding if you are training to be a teacher.
For example, each year the Government makes a range of generous teaching bursaries and scholarships available for those looking to study a PGCE in subjects where teachers are in short supply.
In fact, some subjects have increased their teacher training bursary amounts again for the 2025/26 academic year.
Maths , physics , chemistry and computing trainee teachers will attract a £29,000 bursary.
Eligible PGCE Biology , PGCE Geography , and PGCE Modern Foreign Languages students will receive £26,000, and PGCE Religious Education and PGCE English students will get £10,000 and £5,000 respectively.
You can find all of the information you need on how we can support you financially throughout your teacher training .
We've put together some useful resources you can use that may support you with your finances:
Sunderland and the north-east offer a perfect blend of coast, countryside, and vibrant city life.
Find out how you can get around using efficient modes of transport while considering your carbon footprint and how much you spend.
Navigating the student finance process can be complex for both students and their families.
This article will explore how household income affects student funding and what parents or partners can do to support a student's application.
Sustainable shopping isn't just good for the planet – it’ll also benefit your health and your wallet, which is particularly important for students during the current cost of living crisis.
Read our eight top tips on sustainable shopping on a budget.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/fees-funding-support/placements-jobs:
A placement year offers you an exciting opportunity to immerse yourself in a professional environment after your penultimate year of study.
Explore all the information about the placement opportunities we can offer.
Find out more about placement years .
Having a part-time job is an excellent way to earn extra money as a student, while gaining valuable work experience to enhance your CV and prepare for your career after graduation.
Read more about how we can support you in finding a part-time job while studying.
Find out more about part-time jobs .
Discover what you need to know about working once you've graduated from university, including the support we can offer at the Centre for Graduate Prospects to help you take the next step with your career.
Find out more about working after university .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/fees-funding-support/cost-of-living:
Book an Open Day
Sunderland is a fantastic option to consider for university, offering a significantly lower than average cost of living than other parts of the UK:
We've broken down some of the typical costs you'll need to consider as a student living in Sunderland, including accommodation, travel, food, socialising and more.
Read our cost of living in Sunderland article .
Browse our range of useful cost of living resources, designed to support you with managing your money when you're living and studying in Sunderland.
Listen to Kim as she shares her experiences of the cost of living in Sunderland, breaking down what she spends on a monthly basis.
Lynn and Carly, our Opportunities Coordinators at the Centre for Graduate Prospects, tell us all about the job and volunteering opportunities available to students.
Follow Jack as he shares valuable tips on how to save money and be more environmentally sustainable as a student.
Hear from our students as they share their own experiences of budgeting at university, as well as some of their top tips.
Join Afsina as she talks about everything you need to know about having a part-time job while studying.
Sunderland is a great option to consider for university if you want to live comfortably on a budget.
Here, we’ve outlined some typical costs for a student living in Sunderland to help you work out your own budget.
Read more about the cost of living in Sunderland
It’s no secret that managing your money at university can be a challenge.
We’re sharing some useful student money saving tips to help you try and keep on top of your finances.
Read more about managing your money at university
Read more about working while studying
Bearing the current cost of living crisis in mind, we know our students will be looking for ways to save money wherever possible, so we’ve put together a guide to food shopping as a student.
Read more about food shopping on a student budget
Read more about applying for a scholarship or bursary
With a few simple changes you can be eco-friendly without breaking the bank.
Here are our eight top tips for sustainable shopping on a budget.
Read more about shopping sustainably on a budget
In this guide, we’re exploring everything you need to know about student discounts, including how to get them, where you can use them, and some of our other top tips.
Read more about student discounts
Find out how you can get around Sunderland and the north-east while on a budget and considering your carbon footprint.
Read more about cheap and sustainable travel
While moving away to a new city can be exciting and offers you a whole new level of independence, we're exploring why considering living at home for university could be a good idea.
Read more about living at home for university
Here, we’re exploring some practical tips on how you can be a more sustainable student.
By making conscious choices, you can contribute to a healthier planet while also saving some money along the way.
Read more about being a sustainable student
Read more about scholarships and bursaries
University can be overwhelming as you're juggling your studies, social life, finances, and everything in between.
Knowing how to prioritise and manage your wellbeing is essential.
We've put together eight of our top tips on how you can improve your wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience:
The University of Sunderland is ranked as a Top 40 UK university in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Explore our fantastic north-east location, see what's on around campus, and learn more about how we support our students on their university journey.
We welcome students from all corners of the globe and you can be confident you'll always feel at home here in the North East if you choose to come and study with us.
Discover everything you need to know about what it's like to live as a student in Sunderland.
We're proud of what our city and university have to offer in the way of student life.
When you join us, you're joining a friendly and diverse community, supporting you all the way through your student journey.
Sunderland is diverse and inclusive, with students from a wide range of countries and cultures.
Student life here is amazing as there are many student societies and activities you can join.
Instantly, I was amazed by how warm and inclusive the atmosphere was at Sunderland.
Sunderland has the perfect combination of city and seaside living and is a friendly, diverse and affordable place for you to live and study.
Find out more about our wonderful location and everything else the North East has to offer.
Discover our location
Take a closer look at what goes on at our two fantastic campuses, from exploring our first-class sports facilities to scoping out the best places to grab a coffee between lectures.
Explore what's on campus
We provide a wide range of university support services including general enquiries, wellbeing support, help around student finance, disability support and more.
Our friendly teams are always on hand to offer you any guidance during your studying.
Find out more about student support
You'll find a great choice of accommodation within easy reach of both our campuses.
Discover more about the locations, what's included and how we can help you to settle in.
See our accommodation
Your Sunderland Students' Union is run by students, for students, and is somewhere you can join societies, find support, and enhance your student experience during your time at university.
Explore our SU
Want to find out more about what it's like to study at and live in Sunderland first-hand?
Our students, ambassadors and staff are here to answer all your questions.
Chat to our students
University is often considered to be one of the best times of your life, where you'll make memories that last forever.
Your experience will be even more special with new friends by your side, so meeting some new people should be pretty high on your to-do list when you arrive.
Here are some of our top tips on how to make friends at university.
For many students, moving away to university will be the first time living without their families, which can be an incredibly daunting prospect.
It’s natural to feel homesick, and we’ve compiled some of our top tips on how to deal with homesickness at university to help ease any anxiety you might be experiencing.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/living-in-sunderland:
If you choose Sunderland, you're not just choosing a course, but a home away from home too.
Find out everything you need to know about how friendly, diverse and affordable it is to live in the North East and get ready to explore city, coast and countryside from your doorstep.
Sunderland is located within the county of Tyne and Wear, in the North East of England.
Providing the perfect fusion of city and seaside living, it's a fantastic part of the country and a great choice for somewhere to live and study.
Nestled by the River Wear's mouth to the North Sea, Sunderland's population of around 175,000 strengthens our reputation as a small and friendly city, but you'll also be just a stone's throw from Newcastle upon Tyne and Durham.
We're also advancing when it comes to technology as Sunderland is about to become one of the first 5G-enabled universities in the UK.
There's something to suit all tastes and budgets when it comes to food and drink options in Sunderland, with the city offering a blend of familiar chains and independent eateries to discover, from a wide range of cuisines.
Whether you're looking for a cosy café for brunch, a pub for a quick pint or somewhere to grab your Friday night takeaway, we've got it all here.
If you fancy indulging in some retail therapy, Sunderland's shopping scene comprises your typical high street names with quirky boutiques and independent retailers.
The Bridges Shopping Centre serves as the main shopping hub within the city centre and houses over 90 stores, plus several food outlets if you want to grab a bite to eat while you shop.
A short drive or bus journey away, you've got Dalton Park and The Galleries which are home to an even wider range of retail outlets.
You've also got Gateshead's Metrocentre and Newcastle's extensive choice of shops, just a train ride away if you want to plan a day trip.
Over £400 million is being invested in Sunderland over the next four years
Sunderland is the 7th cheapest UK city for student accommodation
By 2030, Sunderland will have attracted £2.1 billion of public and private investment resulting in more than 17,000 new jobs
Sunderland has a vibrant cultural heritage and it's well worth taking a break from your studying to spend a weekend exploring what we have to offer.
There's something for everyone, whether you're looking for art galleries and museums, historical attractions or theatre and cinema.
Read more about our favourite things to do in Sunderland .
When it comes to nightlife, the city's large student population means that there's something going on every night of the week on Sunderland's social scene, from themed nights to classic club nights, plus lots of student-friendly drinks offers to take advantage of.
If you prefer a more relaxed night out over the partying lifestyle, Sunderland isn't short of craft ale pubs and cocktail bars, perfect for winding down with friends.
Gig-goers will love what the city delivers in the way of live music.
Not only does this include a thriving independent offering, but some of the world's biggest artists and bands have performed at our very own Stadium of Light.
I chose Sunderland for its great location, how affordable it is and the feel of a smaller community.
The city of Sunderland is rich in culture and to top it off, the locals are friendly to visitors.
You're only a short distance to beaches, other cities, shops and nightlife.
What's not to like?
We love our central city location, but one of the great things about living here is that you're never far away from the great outdoors, with the coast and countryside right within your reach.
It goes without saying that one thing our students love is the beaches.
With the endless sands and miles of beautiful coastline, Seaburn and Roker Beaches are ideal for walks and spending summer days with friends.
We've also got plenty of green spaces close by, with parks like Mowbray and Roker just a stone's throw from campus, plus beautiful countryside escapes like Herrington Country Park a short drive away.
While Sunderland itself has plenty to offer, you'll find there's so much more of the North East to discover while you're a student here.
Head just 15 miles north west of Sunderland and you've got the buzzing city of Newcastle and its many attractions, shops, bars, and restaurants to explore.
You've also got the historic city of Durham nearby, with its scenic riverside location dominated by its castle and cathedral.
A little further afield, you've got one of the UK's most beautiful counties, Northumberland , capturing the ultimate of the North East's rugged natural beauty.
Noted for its stunning beaches, remarkable castles, and spectacular national park, the opportunities for days out are endless.
Being a smaller city makes it simple to navigate Sunderland on foot and you'll find a lot within walking distance from our campuses and accommodation, including the beach which is only a 20-minute stroll from St Peter's.
Our two campuses are just over a mile apart from each other, making it easy to travel between the two.
The city centre is largely accessible and there are plenty of walking and cycling routes nearby, including lots of green spaces and coastal walks to enjoy.
The Tyne and Wear Metro is a rail service connecting Sunderland to other areas of the North East, including Newcastle and Gateshead.
You'll find several Metro stations dotted around Sunderland, with one in close proximity to both campuses, as well as our halls of residence.
It takes around half an hour from the University station next to City Campus to get to the centre of Newcastle.
There are several discounted tickets available for travelling as a student on the Metro , making it an affordable and convenient way to explore further afield.
Sunderland's train station will keep you well-connected with other parts of the country, including London, Newcastle, and York.
The station is located within the city centre and both Northern Rail and Grand Central operate from here.
It's also currently undergoing a huge makeover, with an estimated £26m being spent on the refurbishment.
Sunderland boasts a fantastic bus network, making it easy to access the local area and other nearby locations.
The Nexus website is the best place to find out more about planning your journeys.
The Sunderland Connect service, provided by Go North East, allows students to travel for free by simply showing their student ID card.
This service operates between both campuses, plus other stops along the way within the vicinity of our accommodation and key areas of the city.
We also have our own Students' Union circular minibus, which picks up and drops off around our campuses and halls of residence.
The Campus Circular service operates from Monday to Friday, between 8am and 8pm.
There's also an Evening Circular service in operation during term time.
If you're bringing a car to university, the easiest way to get to Sunderland will be via the A1(M), whether you're travelling from the North or South.
You can get here from Newcastle via the A184, Durham via the A690, and Middlesbrough via the A19.
Parking is available at both campuses and you can get a discount as a student by applying for a permit.
If you're living in University accommodation and wish to use the car park, you must apply online for your permit, which can be done in advance of arrival if you're already aware of your allocated room.
The nearest airports to Sunderland are Newcastle International and Teesside International, which are less than an hour's drive away from the city centre.
Newcastle Airport has its own Metro station within the terminal, so you can also travel by this method which is just under an hour's journey from Sunderland.
Travelling in and around Sunderland is both easy and affordable for students due to the city and region's excellent transport links.
Whether you're planning to travel locally or are venturing further away, you'll find planning any journey hassle-free.
There are so many great places to eat and drink in Sunderland.
From restaurants and cafés to takeaways and street food vendors, there’s something for everyone at all times of the day.
We’re exploring everything you need to know about student discounts, including how to get them, where you can use them, and some of our other top tips.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/on-campus:
You'll find a lively and supportive atmosphere on our two campuses in Sunderland, ensuring you have the best student experience possible during your time with us.
Make the most of our brilliant facilities, get involved in a range of sports and societies and discover some tasty food and drink options at both City Campus and The Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
We have two outstanding campuses in Sunderland, each just a short 20 minute walk from each other and both offering a buzzing student environment.
As its name suggests, City Campus is located right in the heart of the city centre and houses our main support services, sports facilities at CitySpace, as well as the Murray Library, lecture halls and classroom spaces.
City Campus is also home to our Art, Design and Performance facilities and our main Health, Sciences and Wellbeing provision.
The Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's benefits from a stunning riverside location and is within easy reach of both the city centre and our glorious beaches.
Facilities include the David Puttnam Media Centre, Northern Centre of Photography, St Peter's Library, and David Goldman Technology Centre.
It was also recently announced that a 5G test lab will be developed at St Peter's, allowing Sunderland to become one of the first 5G-enabled universities in the country.
This technological advancement puts us at the forefront of of smart education and will undoubtedly improve the overall student experience on campus.
If you want to get involved with sports when you join us at Sunderland, there are over 30 clubs and teams you can choose from.
With over 700 members, there's something for everyone, from football and basketball to cheerleading and archery.
More than 20 of our sports teams compete in BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) leagues every Wednesday, as well as other competitions throughout the year.
We provide first class sports and fitness facilities over at CitySpace, including a fully-equipped gym, sports hall and 7m climbing wall, plus rooms to hold exercise classes.
Our dedicated team of exercise professionals will always be on hand for your health and fitness needs.
Depending on which sports club you join, you'll also have access to the aquatic centre with a 50m pool, a dry ski slope, an athletics track, rugby and cricket grounds, and a marina and watersports centre on the beach.
Team Sunderland is our friendly university support service when it comes to overseeing our sports provision and will help you get the most out of your sporting life here.
As well as our sports teams, we've got plenty more to offer to our students with over 50 clubs and societies .
Whether your interests lie in the arts, fundraising, religion, or you want to get more involved with the academic side of things, you're sure to find something suitable in our wide range of groups .
Or, if you have an idea for a new society which doesn't already exist, you'll have full support from the Students' Union to set one up, helping you to access funding and organise any training.
Joining a society is not only the perfect opportunity to pursue a new hobby or continue with an existing one, but it's also an excellent way of making new friends when you come to university and enjoying student life outside of your course.
When you join us, you're joining a community of 19,000 fellow students, and our Students' Union will make sure your university experience is a brilliant one from start to finish.
Run by students, for our students, whatever you want to get out of your time at university, the SU makes sure they do all they can to make that happen.
In fact, we were crowned Students' Union of the Year in 2020, recognising the hard work and ongoing success of our team.
The Students' Union is a place to make your voice heard, seek advice and support, join societies, and so much more during your time at university.
To find out more about the fantastic work they do and how you can get involved, visit our SU website .
Whether you're grabbing lunch between classes or catching up with a friend for coffee, you'll find plenty of places on campus serving both hot and cold food and drink options.
We've teamed up with provider, Elior , who have a proven track record of delivering excellent service, using locally-sourced and sustainable ingredients, as well as offering vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free alternatives.
The Studio is our main food venue at City Campus and over at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, you'll discover our other main eatery, The Riverside.
Both provide modern and spacious seating areas and serve up a wide range of mouthwatering food, as well as a plentiful offering of alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
As well our two main outlets, you've got several smaller cafés at both campuses, which are all great for a quick bite to eat when you're on the go.
See a full list of our food and drink outlets and their opening times.
The University has a number of support services available to help you study and socialise in a safe environment.
Our free campus bus provides safe and reliable transport between our two campuses and student accommodation, and a night service ensures safe travel to some popular social spots.
Campus Security hold regular security awareness events throughout the year.
Look out for events and drop by to meet the team or email them at security.dutymanagers@sunderland.ac.uk .
We're proud of our inclusivity and the University does not tolerate any form of hate crime, on or off campus.
We have strong links with ARCH, an organisation that supports the victims of racism, homophobia, transphobia, religious hate incidents or disability hate incidents.
Find out more about how we strive to make sure you feel safe as a student in Sunderland.
The University is a safe and friendly space to learn and I feel comfortable and relaxed on campus.
The campus is by far the best I've seen.
It's close to the city centre and by the beautiful seaside.
I knew that Sunderland campus has fantastic, modern facilities, plus a wide range of support.
If you’re interested in media or film production and getting hands-on with the latest technology, look no further than the University of Sunderland.
In addition to our established equipment, you’ll have access to new and upgraded facilities, including our 4K-UHD virtual studio, broadcast standard HD TV studio, and our refreshed Spark Sunderland radio studio.
Explore our Living Lab and Helen McArdle House, home to state of the art facilities and equipment for our Nursing, Midwifery, and Paramedic Science students.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/chat-to-students-staff:
Want to know more about studying and student life here at the University of Sunderland?
Our students are happy to talk to you about their experiences.
Choose if you'd like to speak to a student, choose a course, look for a particular topic, explore the FAQs, or simply click 'Chat to me' on a friendly face!
It couldn't be easier.
There's no need to panic if you missed the UCAS application deadline.
Even though it's best to sort out your application before the UCAS deadline, you still have a chance to land a place.
Here are the options available to you after the deadline has passed.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/accommodation:
We offer a great choice of accommodation within a short distance of our two campuses and the city centre.
Choose from three University-managed residences, all in an excellent location to cater to your needs.
For further information about our accommodation, or to arrange a visit, contact the team on 0191 515 2943 or accommodation@sunderland.ac.uk .
We’re in the top ten cheapest UK cities for student accommodation (Student Crowd, Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table, 2025) with prices starting at £88 a week.
Our three university-managed residences include Panns Bank and Scotia Quay, both with riverside views, and The Precinct, which is within walking distance of City Campus.
Located less than a mile away from our two campuses and the city centre, all three residences offer free transport, so you'll be in easy reach when you need to get to class.
All our accommodation is self-catered with fully equipped kitchens and onsite laundry facilities, and we offer options for you to choose to live with friends, in a single-gender flat, or a single-culture flat.
We also have family and couples' accommodation available if you’re coming to the University with your partner and/or children (space for two adults and a maximum of two children).
We offer an accommodation guarantee for eligible first year students which has been extended to 31 August to cater for Clearing applicants.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/explore:
Meet the wonderful students of the University, one story at a time with our Sunderland Stories video series, listen to our academic experts discuss topical issues, or find out what it's like to embark on a life-changing journey at Sunderland from our students themselves with our student blogs.
Explore the University of Sunderland
Student vlogs – watch on YouTube
Sunderland Stories is a video series with a simple goal – to meet and discover the wonderful students of the University, one story at a time.
Bethany Cassap is an Animation and Games Art student who, with the support of the University and her group of like-minded friends, was able to manage her anxiety and embrace her interests.
Since her diagnosis of Asperger's Syndrome at the age of two, Beth Terrance had faced her fair share of stigma and discrimination.
It wasn't until beginning her studies that things began to change.
Lauren Robinson knew how important food banks had become in feeding those who are fighting to get by.
What came next was an idea that would go even further and provide toiletries and hygiene products to those in need.
Introducing the Valentine's edition of our Sunderland Stories series – we were overwhelmed by the response of those who met at our University.
MA Radio graduate Peter ‘Jordy’ Cernik shares his remarkable story, including a near-death experience and a medical procedure that left him without the ability to experience fear.
Sophie Dishman, a thriving Media student, tell us the story of how she overcame a number of health-related challenges to achieve her dream of becoming a journalist.
Meet Andy Parkin, a mature student who had a rather unconventional start into the world of Fine Art.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/student-case-studies:
Don’t just take our word for it, hear what it’s like to study at the University of Sunderland from our current students, and find out where our life-changing degrees have taken our graduates.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/student-support:
Making sure our students feel supported on their university journey is paramount to us, and we're proud to be in the UK top 10 universities for student support services (Daily Mail University Guide 2026).
As well as receiving all the support you need academically, we provide a range of services to ensure you're happy, feel included, and reach your full potential.
We have a range of student services available to support you throughout your time at university.
Many of these services are delivered to you by Student Journey.
Find out more about the support we offer below.
Providing wellbeing support and resources for everyone, including mental health, disability, faith and chaplaincy, LGBTQI+ and more.
Here to help international students with any immigration and welfare queries you may have.
Our cost of living page offers top tips on budgeting, part-time jobs, support with scholarships, and more.
A student-led organisation offering amazing opportunities to help you grow, achieve and have fun while studying with us.
Providing you with expert support, safe spaces and top quality resources for your academic success.
Here to help you in various ways, including offering guidance and advice, student support funds, and more.
On hand to help you with any technical issues or concerns you have during your studies.
Our friendly and enthusiastic team of professionals, here to support you with your participation in sport and exercise.
Gateway is our hub for all student enquiries and the team is here to support and advise you no matter how big or small your issue is.
We have an enquiry desk at each campus ready to help you when you need it, as well as online support.
City Campus, Gateway Building Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, Prospect Building
Enquiry desk opening hours:
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday: 8:30am-5pm Wednesday: 10am-5pm
We successfully achieved the University Mental Health Charter (UMHC) Award, making us one of just 17 institutions to be recognised by Student Minds, an independent voice for university mental health.
Read more about our commitment to creating an environment that promotes positive mental health and wellbeing .
Fees and Funding
Student Stories
Your university experience
Preparing for university
Wellbeing Referral Form

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/research:
We have challenged ourselves to improve society for over 100 years – from the early days of pharmacy to today's new sciences and advanced artificial technologies.
"We are committed to developing and leading pioneering research, innovation, and knowledge exchange.
Our signature research capabilities are focused on addressing global challenges by leveraging niche expertise to make the most significant impact regionally, nationally, and internationally.
Our interdisciplinary approach cultivates a deeply collaborative research environment, enabling us to develop unique solutions that benefit our communities, the economy and global society.
By fostering a culture of innovation and excellence, we empower our researchers and students to push the boundaries of knowledge and contribute significantly to sustainable development worldwide.”
Professor Milan Radosavljevic, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Commercial)
"At Sunderland, we are a life-changing University, and our research activity reflects this, be it through interventions in drug development, economic and social inclusion, or creative industries.
We are focused on applied research that has impact beyond the campus boundary.
We are therefore committed to investing in our staff and the research environment, that facilitates outputs that have global reach and do change lives."
Professor Jo Crotty, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research & Global Engagement)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about:
The University of Sunderland is a truly life-changing university.
We've been providing higher education in the city since 1901, and we're proud to be an innovative, accessible, and inspirational university.
About the University
The University of Sunderland is a global institution.
We offer life-changing opportunities to thousands of students worldwide, in our partner colleges and our four main sites at Sunderland, London, and Hong Kong.
We are research active, with real-world research that is taught in your lecture halls and labs.
Sunderland will put you, our student, at the heart of everything we do.
Our campuses
Choosing a university isn't always easy, but here are just a few reasons why choosing the University of Sunderland could be a life-changing decision.
Living in a student-friendly city like Sunderland is an amazing experience.
We know moving away to university is one of the biggest and most exciting decisions you’ll ever make, and you’ll find a home from home at Sunderland.
Accommodation
We know university is a big investment.
Don't worry – Sunderland is a great choice and we've got you covered.
We have a dedicated, friendly team to help you with all aspects of student finance and our support doesn't end when you graduate.
You'll receive a tuition fee discount if you choose to continue your life-changing academic journey and study a postgraduate course with us.
We're internationally known for the quality of our teaching and research, and all of our research-active staff also teach, meaning you benefit from cutting-edge research at every stage of your degree.
Find out more about the staff teaching you on your course.
Academic staff profiles

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/about-the-university:
Named as one of the UK’s Top 40 universities in the Guardian University Guide 2025, t he life-changing University of Sunderland has 25,600 students based in campuses on the north-east coast, in London, Hong Kong, and at its global partnerships with learning institutions in 15 countries.
We have been rooted in the city of Sunderland since the establishment of Sunderland Technical College in 1901.
We're known for our long-established commitment to widening participation, our world-leading research, and public and private sector collaborations.
We also have a track-record for providing quality student experiences that result in graduates who are the tomorrow-makers of our societies and economies.
The University is focused on ensuring our graduates leave equipped with the knowledge, skills, confidence, and connections to make a positive difference in the wider world.
Total number of students at the University: 18,326
The percentage of our undergraduate students are:
The percentage of our postgraduate students are:
The total percentage of our students are:
Total number of nationalities: 123
The University of Sunderland is integral to the city and our region.
Our Strategic Plan 2020-25 sets out our “Life-Changing” mission, through transformative experiences for our students, career-focused and professions-facing teaching, and the positive difference we aim to make to society.
All of these have a distinct local and regional impact.
Among our achievements , Sunderland is recognised internationally as a leading university, receiving five stars for teaching, inclusiveness, employability and facilities in the QS World University Rankings 2023.
Our We Care Team also won the prestigious Social Mobility Project Award at the 2022 Inclusive Awards.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/our-campuses:
We offer life-changing opportunities to thousands of students across the world, in our partner colleges and in our four main sites at Sunderland, London and Hong Kong.
We are research active, with ten areas of 'world-leading’ research – real-world research that is taught in your lecture halls and labs.
Sunderland will put you, our student, at the heart of everything that we do.
City Campus is at the centre of our modern city, and is home to our main administration and support services, library, lecture halls, and our excellent sport facilities at CitySpace.
It is also the centre for the University’s Arts and Design courses and home to our main Sciences provision, housing our world-famous Pharmacy facilities, our Living Labs, School of Nursing and the newly-established School of Medicine.
The riverside is also home to the Northern Centre of Photography, the National Glass Centre, as well as The David Goldman Technology Centre, a high-tech computing environment with strong links to software companies and a constant exchange of ideas and people.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/our-achievements:
We're proud of our achievements.
We also know they can help you make informed choices about university and course options.
(Research Excellence Framework 2021)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/staff:
We're internationally known for the quality of our teaching and research, and all of our research-active staff also teach, which means that you benefit from cutting-edge research at every stage of your degree.
Find out more about the staff who will be teaching you on your course.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/100-years-of-pharmacy:
In September 1921 Hope Constance Monica Winch arrived in Sunderland with an ambitious plan to establish the finest pharmacy department in the north-east of England.
She started with just three fee-paying students and 25 ex-servicemen in a teaching space equipped with only one double-sided bench.
Now, 100 years later we have produced tens of thousands of pharmacy graduates or as we like to call them heroes, who have gone on to offer expertise, support and assistance to people in all corners of the world.
You can find our graduates working in industry, hospital or community pharmacy, you may have even met one of them.
Today, pharmacy at the University of Sunderland continues to be at the heart of our growing health sciences and wellbeing provision, which now includes – among other subjects – nursing, paramedic science and medicine.
This year we will be celebrating 100 years by sharing our history, remembering our heroes and hosting events with our alumni – why don’t you come and join our celebrations!
From humble beginnings to international recognition, join us as we recall a century of the study and education of Pharmacy at the University of Sunderland.
Hope Constance Monica Winch was born in 1894.
She was educated at the Clergy Daughters’ School at Casterton and in 1912 went on to spend a year at the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle, training as a pharmacy dispenser.
Miss Winch next attended the PSGB's School of Pharmacy in London and registered as a Chemist and Druggist on 30 June 1917.
She then went on to attend the next session of the Major course, registering as a Pharmaceutical Chemist on 5 April 1918.
During that time, she was awarded the Pereira Medal, making her only the fifth woman to be presented with this.
In September 1921 she finally came to Sunderland and became our first full-time pharmacy lecturer, having transferred from Rutherford College in Newcastle.
With approval from the Pharmaceutical Society all pharmacy teaching was then transferred from Newcastle to Sunderland.
Tragically, Hope Winch died in a climbing accident on 8 April 1944.
Today her memory is honoured through a society for former students which bears her name and the awarding of the Hope Winch Memorial Prize to the most outstanding student in the first two years of the course.
To celebrate 100 years of Pharmacy at Sunderland, members of the university singing group After Dusk worked with English National Opera star Valerie Reid and arranger Tim Jasper on a light-hearted musical mash up to celebrate the centenary of Pharmacy in Sunderland.
"This job really is a dream come true; I always wanted to go into hospital pharmacy."
"I chose to study at Sunderland because it is a well-established university."
"We apply what we learn in lectures to real-life scenarios."

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
We’re a 2:2 class university in People and Planet’s University League 24/25 and have risen by 14 places since last year.
This reflects the excellent work we're doing as a university to improve our sustainability.
From our environment on campus to the resources we use and the courses we deliver, we're taking action to ensure we're committed to a sustainable future.
We are dedicated to sustainable practices in all that we do.
We proactively seek ways to make positive changes to our environment by reusing, recycling, and reducing and helping natural habitats develop and thrive across our estate.
We are also working closely with partners, including Sunderland City Council, on our longer-term commitments to environmental sustainability.
We are bringing all of this activity into revitalising our comprehensive Environmental Sustainability and Carbon Reduction Plans.
These plans are to guide future direction, but in the meantime, we have plenty of sustainability initiatives underway.
Read our Environmental Sustainability Annual Report 2023/24 (.pdf) and find out more about the targets and actions we're committed to taking in the year ahead.
We are committed to the responsible use of energy throughout the University to ensure that we achieve a Net Zero Carbon Campus by no later than 2040.
We are committed to decreasing waste and increasing reuse and recycling where possible.
We are committed to reducing carbon emissions by encouraging more sustainable ways to travel to and from the University.
We are committed to ensuring we increase the biodiversity on campus while working with local partners to ensure our green spaces are maximising impact in Sunderland.
We are committed to embedding sustainability into our faculties and services to ensure students graduate with environmental and social impact knowledge.
We are committed to ensuring that the emissions from the goods and services we purchase from our stakeholders are net zero by 2050.
We have a number of policies and plans to support our commitment to applying sustainable principles, and how we will achieve this.
Find out more information about our Environmental Sustainability Plan and other supporting policies and plans.
Read our policy and plans.
There are lots of different ways you can take part in helping us create a greener future.
Whether that be joining one of our sustainability groups, getting involved in events or volunteering or following some of our top tips and tricks to becoming more sustainable in your every day life.
Find out how you can get involved in sustainability at the University .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-inclusion:
Inclusivity is a value at the heart of the University strategy, expressing our commitment to Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI).
EDI is intrinsic to everything we do as a University and to every aspect of our student and staff experience, including who we attract to study and work here, their experiences and opportunities to achieve and the impact they have in the future.
The University believes that everybody should be treated with equality and dignity and it is our civic duty to have practices that add value beyond compliance with equality legislation.
We welcome feedback on equality, diversity, and inclusion.
Please contact our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion team, inclusion@sunderland.ac.uk or the Students' Union at yoursu@sunderland.ac.uk .
Explore how and where to find disability support at the University of Sunderland, with the Head of Disability Services, Ben Hodgson.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/30th-anniversary:
In 2022, the University of Sunderland is proud to celebrate its 30-year anniversary.
In 1992, HM The Queen granted Sunderland city status to mark the 40th anniversary of her accession to the throne, and Sunderland Polytechnic became the University of Sunderland.
Dr Anne Wright, who had been the Rector of the Polytechnic, became the first Vice-Chancellor of the University – and one of the very first female VCs.
Thirty years on, the University is proud to be changing the lives of students – many of whom are from Sunderland and the surrounding area – and to be working with businesses and organisations to play a positive part in supporting the social and economic ambitions of the city.
The anniversary celebrations will be taking place throughout September with an opportunity for both past and current staff and students to get involved.
We will also be linking up with the wider community as part of events celebrating 30 years of Sunderland receiving city status.
The University will also be highlighting many of the memories of students who were studying in 1992 when official university-status was granted.
"The University was building St Peter’s campus – there were a lot of big leaps forward."
“I loved my time at the University and living in the city.
I remember it really fondly."
"I had fun, made friends for life and went on to a successful career."
View an accessible version of this timeline .
When Rebecca Ivinson was looking for a University her priority was that it was in the North.
When she came for her interview in December 2019 she loved the University and the city, as well as how welcoming the staff and other students are.
Read more about why Rebecca chose Sunderland.
Dawn Spearman chose the University of Sunderland after noticing friends on social media discussing our nursing programmes.
She now feels very supported and has developed a close circle of friends on her course.
Read more about why Dawn chose Sunderland.
Yan Ying Khoo chose to study Pharmacy at the University of Sunderland for many reasons, including our 100 years of history in the subject, the well-designed course structures, and the overall 5-star experience.
Read more about why Ying chose Sunderland.
Come together and celebrate everything we have achieved so far with your former classmates.
Reconnect with old friends and rewind back to your university days at the class of 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 reunion!
Register for the Alumni Reunion on Friday 16 th September 2022 .
Don’t forget to keep us up to date with the best way to contact you – update your details or get back in touch with your Alumni Association .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/universities-for-north-east-england:
Universities for North East England is the unified place-informed voice of Higher Education in North East England.
Advocating for evidence-based policy development, investment and widening access and participation in Higher Education.
Universities for North East England is a collaboration between the Universities of Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria, Sunderland and Teesside, working alongside the Tees Valley and North East Combined Authorities.
Speaking in a unified, place-informed voice to make higher education accessible for study, business, innovation, and investment and offering regional insight to help inform national Higher Education policy.
"Through Universities for North East England, we can strengthen our existing close partnerships and collaborations and act as a strong unified voice for the higher education sector and the North East region."
- The Vice-Chancellors from the five North East England Universities
Advocacy for the five Regional Universities and for the North East
The voice of the sector and the region, positioning North East universities to advocate for evidence-based policy development.
Working with industry in the UK and internationally to promote North East England as an attractive place to invest in business, infrastructure and innovation.
Enabling access to Higher Education through our collective widening participation efforts, supporting global social mobility and through our civic responsibilities.
Work in this area is through our collective partnerships with the North East Raising Aspirations Partnership, Outreach North East and through our partnership work overseas.
Our global ambition is to position the North East universities collectively as anchor institutions.
We will ensure that the universities’ shared commitment to the economic, social and cultural success of the North East is fully understood by our audiences.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help:
Contact details for the University of Sunderland and how to find us.
No matter what your concern, we're here to help.
Find out about the many helpful support services available to you.
Information for all overseas students, including requirements for your visa application, Immigration Compliance checks you need to pass before receiving a CAS, fees and funding and other support.
Learn more about our generous scholarships and the great range of financial support and guidance available to help you manage your finances at university.
Information on what to expect when you start your course and what it’s like to study at university.
Helpful tips and advice on everything involved in securing your place at university.
More information on our School of Medicine including how to apply, our entry qualifications, MMI, roles and responsibilities form and much more.
Every year the University produces a series of corporate documents.
Held here are some of the most recent publications.
The University of Sunderland's policies and procedures relating to student harassment and sexual misconduct.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/parents:
A young person thinking about going to university is taking a big step towards independence and adulthood.
As a parent or supporter of a prospective student, you have an important role to play in supporting them as they embark on this journey.
Sign up to our newsletter
Shortlisted for University of the Year by the Times Higher Education Awards!
The following guidance is for everyone involved in providing support to a prospective student during this period of change and opportunity.
In this area you’ll find helpful guides, resources, videos and tips specifically designed to help parents and supporters in this vital role.
Sign up for our parents and supporters' newsletter.
We'll email you a downloadable copy of our Guide for Parents and Supporters and provide updates about our open days, deadline reminders and advice on how you can best provide support.
We're proud...
to be a rising top 40 UK university (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Read the full story
We're always happy to speak to parents.
Give our Student Helpline a call on 0191 515 3000, ask us a question on Live Chat (available from 9am - 5pm on our website), drop us an email, look us up on Facebook or Twitter, or sign up for an Open Day.
Contact us
Information for new students
Student stories

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/mature:
What is a mature student?
If you're over 21 when you commence your studies, UCAS considers you to be at mature student age.
The University of Sunderland is in the top 20 UK universities for mature students (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024).
We know age is just a number and we'll be with you every step of the way with whatever support you may need.
Find out more about what you can expect when you join us as a mature student, or why not join us for one of our upcoming open days?
We can't wait to meet you.
Find out more about our subject areas and courses available for mature students and take the next step to getting a career to be proud of.
Many of our courses are available on a part-time basis, giving you more flexibility to study around work and family commitments.
Learn more about mature student courses
We know finance is a big consideration when making the decision to return to education.
This is why we offer our mature students studying eligible courses the opportunity to apply for a range of scholarships and bursaries to support them during their studies.
View our scholarships and bursaries
Got more questions about being a mature student at Sunderland?
Join our group chat where you can find out everything you need to know from our friendly Student Ambassadors.
Join the mature students group chat
Grace McKenzie decided to come and study at the University of Sunderland when she was 25 years old.
Hear her experiences of leaving full-time employment and where to find information on funding.
There’s a lot to consider when applying for university, so we’ve broken down the undergraduate application process into a step-by-step guide.
Find out more about applying as an undergraduate for university
Find out why you should come to our next Undergraduate Open Day
As a mature student, you'll be fully supported during your studying.
We offer a number of support services at Sunderland including wellbeing, financial, disability, and many more that you can take advantage of when you come to study with us.
If I can achieve this at the age of 60 then no matter what age you are, I am sure you can.
I realised there were benefits to returning to studying and I was keen to progress my career.
I would thoroughly recommend the University; from day one I was supported by all the lecturers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/care-experienced-support:
At the University of Sunderland, we aim to make sure that anyone leaving care has the same full, immersive and enjoyable time studying at university as any other student.
Our We Care Team are here to help you as and when you need us, starting right now.
The We Care Team have helped me more than pretty much anyone in my whole life.
The financial support I've received from the We Care Team has massively helped me.
Had the We Care support not been available, I wouldn't have been able to complete my PGCE.
We understand that as a care-experienced person, you may have additional questions and concerns so we have a dedicated We Care Team who can offer individual, bespoke support to any care-experienced person considering higher education.
All contact with the team is kept confidential and your choices are respected at all times.
We can provide personalised support based on your individual needs.
This could include the following:
We offer support with the following:
97.8% of students who received support from the We Care Team* rate our support as good or very good.
*Data from 46 respondents to the We Care Survey 2024.
Building on past success, the University of Sunderland has once again been recognised for how it supports care-experienced and estranged students by a leading national charity.
Read more about the renewed National Network for the Education of Care Leavers (NNECL) Quality Mark.
It’s the third time the University of Sunderland’s We Care Team has won a national Stand Alone Pledge Award for its pioneering approach to caring for some of its most vulnerable students – but this year it’s extra special.
Read more about the Stand Alone Pledge Award.
The University's 'We Care' team has won the prestigious Social Mobility Project Award at the 2022 Inclusive Awards.
Read more about the Social Mobility Project Award.
At the University of Sunderland, we use the broader definition of ‘care-experienced,’ as this term is inclusive of the range of care settings someone may have experienced.
Our definition of care-experienced is someone who, at any stage of their life, and for any length of time, has been in care in the UK e.g.
looked after by the local authority.
This includes the following:
We respect your confidentiality.
Our small team is the only people who will contact you about being care-experienced.
No one else within the University will be informed unless you choose to tell them.
If you are care-experienced, but your personal circumstances do not match any of the criteria outlined above, please contact the We Care Team at care.contact@sunderland.ac.uk or call 0191 515 2216 for further guidance.
According to the We Care Annual Student Survey 2024.
I lead the We Care Team and our personalised support for care-experienced students.
The We Care team can support you from your very first enquiry to graduation and beyond.
I have almost 20 years of experience in supporting students to enter and succeed in Higher Education.
I’m committed to ensuring that the support we provide exceeds the expectations of our students, so please let me know if there’s anything you think we can do to improve your student experience.
I look forward to meeting you and welcoming you to the University of Sunderland and our We Care student community.
Hi, I’m Nicola and I work primarily in the We Care Team overseeing support to a wide range of applicants and current students from underrepresented groups.
I’ve worked in widening participation and student recruitment for the last 15 years and I am passionate about ensuring everyone has the same opportunities to access higher education.
Hi, I’m Safeenah and I assist the We Care Team’s bespoke support for care-experienced students.
I am keen to ensure students have a positive experience through higher education and are allowed to achieve the highest of their ability.
We can have regular catch-ups and discuss how your studies are going or support you with any needs you may have before, during, or after your time studying with us.
Studying at university can be challenging but rewarding, so we know that you may experience feeling overwhelmed from time to time during your studies.
We can help you throughout any particularly stressful or difficult times by:
Our support doesn’t end when you graduate.
We’re here to help with your next steps including everything from interview preparation to finding accommodation if you need it.
Just get in touch and we’ll be there to help you every step of the way.
Graduation
We can offer you support in the run up to and on the day of your graduation ceremony.
Just let us know how we can help.
We will cover the cost of your graduation gown and photo package, and even attend your academic awards ceremony to see you graduate, if you would like us to.
We’ll also contact you a few weeks before your graduation to check whether you need any support from us.
Dedicated Careers and Employability Support
The Careers, Enterprise and Employability Support Team is here to support you with careers and employability advice.
Whether you are looking for graduate opportunities or a part-time job over the summer, get in touch and we can refer you for one-to-one support from the team.
One of the main reasons I chose Sunderland was the support from the We Care Team.
Care leavers can access opportunities and feel comfortable, stable and supported.
If it wasn’t for the We Care Team at the University, I would have quit.
We understand that some students may encounter money worries at some point during their studies, but you’re not alone.
You may be entitled to:
If you are care-experienced and either a UK full-time undergraduate student or a student studying a full-time taught postgraduate course, then you could be eligible for the We Care Bursary of £2,500, based on progression to the next level of your course.
This will be paid in four instalments of £625 throughout the year, for each year you study with us.
Your status is kept confidential and you apply via the e:Vision portal.
For students who apply to Sunderland directly, or via Clearing, if you inform us during online enrolment that you are care-experienced or estranged, we will send you further details outlining how to apply.
You can apply at any point in the year, contact us to find out more.
You can apply at any point in the year.
For further information please contact the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or email care.contact@sunderland.ac.uk .
We have a range of scholarships available, so get in touch if you need any help or advice in understanding what you may be entitled to.
Find out more about what scholarships and bursaries we offer.
For further information or advice, please contact our Scholarships and Bursaries Team on 0191 515 2865 or by email at scholarships@sunderland.ac.uk .
If you are supported by your local authority then they can provide you with a minimum support package of £2,000 for the duration of your higher education course.
Many local authorities will provide you with more support – it can be useful to ensure you have this agreed in writing.
This is the University’s hardship fund to help students who face unexpected costs, higher than expected costs, or serious financial problems for other reasons.
The fund is open to UK, EU, and international students, and applications can be made once you have enrolled.
You will need to provide supporting evidence for your application to be considered for an award.
Priority groups of students for assistance from the fund include students with children, students who are unable to work, and final-year students experiencing financial difficulties.
Find more information on the fund (and the application form) .
For further information and guidance on your finances, please contact our Student Financial Guidance Team on 0191 515 2284 or email studentfinancialguidance @sunderland.ac.uk .
NNECL is a national charity, established by higher education institutions and national organisations committed to the progression and support of care leavers in higher education (HE).
NNECL’s website aims to provide information on the range of activities taking place across the country to inspire and inform care leavers about HE.
It can help those who are starting to consider further education and want to find out more.
Find out more about NNECL or visit their X (formerly Twitter) page .
In 2022, the University achieved the NNECL Quality Mark, a developmental accreditation process that supports higher and further education institutions to achieve the best outcomes for their care-experienced students.
It highlights any areas of enhanced or exceptional practice, with a strong focus on mental health and wellbeing.
The University was rated as 'exceptional' in all seven areas of the Quality Mark assessment – the highest possible rating.
Become is a voice for young people in care.
Everything they do is designed to improve the day-to-day experience of children and young people in care – and their future lives.
Become also host the Propel website which has details of support for care leavers available at all UK universities and FE colleges which offer higher education provision.
It’s free and will provide a wealth of information at your fingertips.
Find out more about Become or visit their X (formerly Twitter) page .
The Care Leaver Covenant is a promise made by the private, public, and voluntary sectors to provide support for care leavers aged 16-25 to help them live independently.
The aim is to provide additional support for those leaving care, making available support and expertise to aid care leavers to successfully move forward to the next phase of their lives.
Find out more about the Care Leaver Covenant or visit their X (formerly Twitter) page .
Coram Voice will help you with any questions if you are in care, leaving care, have, or need a social worker.
They can assist in ensuring care-experienced people know their rights.
Find out more about Coram Voice or visit their X (formerly Twitter) page .
Estranged and Care Experienced Students (EaCES) provide a space that signposts to support and guidance that is accessible to our community in all areas of their lives, with a particular focus on supporting access to further and higher education.
They are a p eer support platform for students who are estranged, care-experienced, care leavers, orphaned, and at risk of/wishing to become estranged.
Find out more about EaCES or visit their X (formerly Twitter) page .
The CLA works with care leavers over the age of 16 and is run by care leavers for care leavers.
Their work includes user-led support such as mentoring, projects for young people, training and assessment, advice and information, signposting, research, policy, and campaigns.
Find out more about the CLA or visit their X (formerly Twitter) page .
We are working with higher education providers, local authorities, and charities across the country to raise the profile of care-experienced students and ensure we offer the best support possible.
You can contact Wendy and the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or by email at care.contact@sunderland.ac.uk .
When it comes to things to pack for university, strategy and streamlining are key.
Here are our top tips for your university packing list.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/estranged-support:
Starting university is an exciting time for all students, but we understand that it can be daunting if you don’t have the support of your family.
If you are an estranged student who does not have any contact with your parents/carers, our We Care team are here to support you every step of the way.
The support I’ve received has ranged from financial support to encouragement to one-to-one support.
I decided to come to Sunderland as I wanted to expand my available possibilities for the future.
The support from the University has been central to me making it through the last year.
Every one of our students is different and unique.
That’s why we’ll work with you to create a personalised support package.
We aim to support you in making informed choices, settle in quickly at university, enjoy your student experience, and achieve your potential.
We can also support you if you are just thinking of applying to university by assisting you with all aspects of the application process from course choices, feedback on a personal statement to interview tips and hints.
We can accompany you to university Open Days, arrange an individual tour, or simply meet up for a chat.
Wendy Price, Head of Widening Access and Participation, is our dedicated contact for estranged students and is assisted by Nicola, Safeenah, and Jess.
The We Care Team can offer individual, bespoke support whenever you need it.
Any contact is kept confidential and your choices are respected at all times.
If you have any questions about studying at the University of Sunderland, or the support available, please contact the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or email estranged.contact@sunderland.ac.uk .
The University of Sunderland has achieved the NNECL (National Network for the Education of Care Leavers) Quality Mark, an award which supports higher and further education institutions to achieve the best outcomes for their care-experienced students.
Read more about the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers Quality Mark.
If you are a UK ‘home’ student and irreconcilably estranged from both parents/carers, our We Care team can offer you individual, bespoke support whenever you need it.
The term ‘estranged student’ is used to refer to students who are studying without the support of a family network.
We have a support package in place to assist you if you are:
By 'irreconcilably estranged' we mean that either:
For estrangement cases that cannot be confirmed by SFE, proof of evidence of ‘genuine estrangement’ would need to be supplied to the University.
All applications of estrangement are assessed on an individual basis.
Please note, you will not be considered estranged simply on the basis that you live separately from your parents, have recently fallen out with your parents, or your parents are unwilling to complete income assessment forms or contribute towards your student finance.
If you are unsure whether you are an estranged student, or what you may be eligible for, please contact the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or email estranged.contact@sunderland.ac.uk .
I lead the We Care team and our personalised support for estranged students.
The We Care Team can support you from your very first enquiry to graduation and beyond.
Hi, I’m Safeenah and I assist the We Care Team’s bespoke support for estranged students.
We can have regular catch-ups and discuss how your studies are going or I can support you with any needs you may have before, during, or after your time studying with us.
The Employability and Enterprise Hub is here to support you with careers and employability advice.
They supported me like the family I have never had, but always wanted.
The We Care team has always been there for me when I felt alone.
If you are care experienced and either a full-time undergraduate student or a student studying a full-time taught postgraduate course, then you could be eligible for the We Care bursary of £2,500 based on progression to the next level of your course.
This will be paid in four instalments of £625 throughout the year, for each year you progress through your course with us.
Your status is kept confidential and you apply directly through the We Care Team for this bursary.
You can apply at any point in the year, so contact us to find out more.
For further information, please contact the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or email care.contact@sunderland.ac.uk .
We have a range of scholarships and bursaries available, so get in touch if you need any help or advice in understanding what you may be entitled to.
They are a peer support platform for students who are estranged, care-experienced, care leavers, orphaned, and at risk of/wishing to become estranged.
Find out more about EaCES or visit their X (Twitter) page .
Estranged Students' Network (ESN) is a UK-wide, student-led network, aiming to support and assist estranged students navigating academia.
Find out more about ESN by visiting their Instagram page .
The Helena Kennedy Foundation (HKF) exists to overcome social injustice by providing financial bursaries, mentoring, and support to disadvantaged students who are progressing from further or adult education sectors, enabling them to complete their studies in higher education and successfully move into employment.
HKF Awards are bursaries of up to £2,250 that are available to students currently studying at a further education college or sixth form and applying to university in September.
Applications are usually accepted between January and early April.
Recipients for an HKF Award can also access free training sessions, to improve their skills throughout university, and apply for work placements and shadowing opportunities.
Find out more about Helena Kennedy Foundation or visit their X (Twitter) page .
We are working with higher education providers, local authorities, and charities across the country to raise the profile of estranged students and ensure we offer the best support possible.
You can contact Wendy and the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or by email at estranged.contact@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/armed-forces-support:
The University of Sunderland aims to provide you with a programme of support to ensure your transition to university is a successful one.
Transfer the skills you've developed in the Armed Forces to enhance your career prospects.
Nicola Hopper is the dedicated Armed Forces Contact, here to support those students beginning their journey at the University of Sunderland from the Armed Forces.
Nicola’s role is to ensure that you receive the best possible service from the University, offering a robust structure of support to ensure your transition to university is a successful one.
You can contact Nicola on 0191 515 2216 or by email at armed.forces@sunderland.ac.uk .
At the University of Sunderland we are committed to ensuring that service personnel are supported as they transition into life at university.
The support we provide for full-time, home, undergraduate and taught postgraduate students includes:
If you are looking to pursue a career in teaching, you may be eligible for a bursary worth up to £40,000 to get into teaching related to STEM.
Find out more information on the Troops to Teachers bursary .
This scheme provides university scholarships for children of those who lost their lives in the line of duty.
Find out more about the Armed Forces Bereavement Scholarship Scheme .
This University of Sunderland is a registered learning provider with the Ministry of Defence's ELCAS scheme.
The scheme provides financial support to British Armed Forces personnel to support their studies at University.
To apply for the ELCAS scheme, visit the ELCAS website to find out if you match the criteria for funding.
The website has everything you need to submit your funding application.
You will need to apply at least 5 weeks before the start of your course.
After your application for funding, once you make your application for your course, you will need to mention our Learning Provider Reference number: 1290.
This scheme pays the tuition fees for ex-service people who have not previously studied at higher education level.
Find out more information about Publicly Funded Further Education/Higher Education (PF FE/HE) .
If you are currently serving, or have recently served, in the British Armed Forces and are looking to enhance your education, you could be eligible to receive help with funding your studies.
Whether you are starting your career after the forces or looking to develop your existing qualifications while still serving, we have a range of course options for current and former military personnel.
We will also consider your previous training and experience as part of your application, to ensure you find the best entry level to higher education.
These courses are particularly popular with ex-military personnel.
If you don't see what you're looking for, you can browse our full range of courses .
We are extremely proud to be holders of the Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award .
This demonstrates our commitment to ensuring that service personnel are supported as they transition into life at university.
Gold Award holders proactively advocate and support Defence, communicating their commitment both internally to employees and externally to the wider community.
With established policies, you know you will be supported at the University of Sunderland and will be working with an organisation that understands your needs.
We’re here to help with your next steps including everything from interview preparation to options for further study.
Our Careers, Employability and Enterprise team are here to support you with careers and employability advice.
Jayne Donaghue MBE graduated at the Stadium of Light and shared the proud moment with a very special guest.
Read more about Jayne's story.
Lecturer Terry McDermott-Moses spent more than 20 years juggling her career as a nurse with her role as an Army Reservist.
Read more about Terry's story.
Students at the University of Sunderland have led a veterans’ mental wellbeing day in collaboration with SSAFA, the Armed Forces charity as part of their placement.
Read more about the event.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/gtrsb-support:
At the University of Sunderland we aim to make sure that all students have the same full, immersive and enjoyable time while studying at university.
We also understand that as a Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showman or Boater (GTRSB) student, you may have specific questions about university, so we have a dedicated We Care Team to provide support.
If you identify as a Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showman or Boater (GTRSB) student, our We Care Team can offer individual, bespoke support whenever you need it.
The We Care Team provides personalised support for all Home GTRSB students.
Wendy Price, Head of Widening Access and Participation, is our dedicated contact for GTRSB students and is assisted by Nicola and Safeenah.
The We Care Team can offer personalised support based on your individual needs.
Meetings are confidential, and your choices are always respected.
The We Care Team can help you throughout your student journey, from accommodation to finance, as well as being a central point of contact for support throughout your studies.
They’re happy to accompany you to university events, Open Days, Applicant Days, interviews, and graduation, supporting you wherever and whenever it’s needed.
If you are unsure what you may be eligible for, please contact the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or email GTRSB@sunderland.ac.uk .
As part of a national initiative, the University will make a firm commitment to take steps to support GTRSB students into and within Higher Education.
Read more about how the university supports GTRSB students.
As part of the University’s Gypsy, Roma and Traveller History Month Event Series, Richard O'Neill and George Hoyle have shared their unique insights into gypsy culture through story-telling and song.
Read more about how the University of Sunderland celebrated Gypsy, Roma and Traveller History Month.
The University of Sunderland has welcomed back award-winning storyteller, author, and playwright Richard O’Neill, and professional musician and songwriter George Hoyle, as part of its GRT History Month celebrations.
Read more about the online interactive ‘Story Into Song’ masterclass, which was streamed to schools across the country
We aim to support you to make informed choices, settle in quickly at university, enjoy your student experience and achieve your potential.
I lead the We Care Team and our personalised support for GTRSB students.
Hi, I’m Safeenah and I assist the We Care Team’s bespoke support for GTRSB students at the University.
I am keen to ensure students have a positive experience through higher education and are supported to achieve their full potential.
The University of Sunderland was among the first five universities nationally to sign the Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showmen and Boater into Higher Education Pledge in January 2021.
Signing the pledge demonstrates the University’s commitment to support GTRSB students into and through Higher Education.
Read more about the University of Sunderland signing the pledge .
Find out more by visiting the GTRSB into Higher Education website .
When you enrol online as part of the University registration process, we will ask if you identify as a Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showman or Boater student.
This helps us to identify students who may need our support.
The GTRSB Support Team are the only people who have access to this information.
We respect your confidentiality and no one else in the University will be informed unless you choose to tell them.
If you choose not to share this information during enrolment then you can contact Wendy Price, or another member of the GTRSB Team on 0191 515 2216 or via email at GTRSB@sunderland.ac.uk to let us know that you are a GTRSB student.
A degree is challenging but rewarding, so we know that you may experience feeling overwhelmed from time to time during your studies.
We can offer you support in the run-up to and on the day of your graduation ceremony.
We will cover the cost of your graduation gown and photo package, and even attend your academic awards ceremony to see you graduate if you would like us to.
As a Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showman or Boater (GTRSB) student, you may be eligible for the University of Sunderland Bursary of £3,000.
To find out if you are eligible and information on how to apply please see the University of Sunderland Bursary .
If you have any questions or need any further guidance you can contact Wendy and the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or by email at GTRSB@sunderland.ac.uk .
Friends, Families and Travellers is a charity working on behalf of all Gypsies, Travellers and Roma offering advice and consultancy, promoting health and wellbeing, contributing to research and policy making and delivery training..
Find out more about Friends, Families and Travellers or visit their Twitter page .
The Traveller Movement is a charity promoting the inclusion of Gypsies, Roma and Travellers through community engagement, advocating their human rights and leading on research to shape policy.
Find out more about The Traveller Movement or visit their Twitter page .
ACERT is a charity that works for Gypsy, Roma and Travellers to end discrimination and ensure they have: Equal access to education Safe and secure accommodation Equal access to health and other community services Good community relations Find out more about ACERT or visit their Twitter page .
ACERT is a charity that works for Gypsy, Roma and Travellers to end discrimination and ensure they have:
Find out more about ACERT or visit their Twitter page .
There is lots of useful information available for Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showmen and Boater (GTRSB) students who are considering university.
These websites may be useful to find out more about how they can be supported to make their application and transition to higher education.
You can contact Wendy and the We Care Team on 0191 515 2216 or email GTRSB@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more:
Keep up-to-date with all the latest news from the University.
News and Media Resources
For almost one hundred years, researchers at the University have been challenging themselves and their subject in order to improve society across all its facets.
Research
Through working with the University of Sunderland, your business can access a variety of services and benefits, such as research, training, business advice, graduate and student interns, and world-class facilities.
Business services
In a globally connected world, it is great to stay in touch with the institution that has played an influential role in your life.
Hear more about our events, reunions and alumni news.
Join our Alumni community
Our outreach in schools and colleges aims to offer both pupils and teachers access to a wide range of pre and post-16 events, activities and helpful resources, designed to support pupils from all backgrounds, raise aspirations and give them the information they need to make clear choices about their future.
Information for schools and colleges
The University of Sunderland Childcare Service is open to students, staff and the general public, who can all take advantage of the excellent staff and facilities at St Mary’s on Chester Road.
St Mary's Childcare Centre

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/schools-colleges:
Find out more about the ways we can support schools and colleges in inspiring and preparing pupils for university life and beyond, via outreach events, useful resources and more.
Sign up for our newsletter
Here at the University of Sunderland, our outreach in schools and colleges aims to offer both pupils and teachers access to a wide range of events, activities, and helpful resources, tailored to different needs.
We provide a variety of pre and post-16 activities and events, designed to support pupils from all backgrounds, raise aspirations, and give them the information they need to make clear choices about their future.
Our team has considerable experience in higher education and is passionate about delivering engaging and inspiring activities to pupils, as well as offering encouragement towards their journey into university.
Primary school children in Sunderland will be delving into space thanks to a new partnership with the Aldrin Family Foundation.
A school pupil whose engineering talents were discovered at the University in Sunderland has gone on to win a top prize for her children’s hospital invention at a prestigious national award ceremony in London.
The University of Sunderland is part of a new £1m three-year programme to use arts and culture to help transform the lives of children and young people living in poverty in Sunderland which will launch next year.
North-east schoolchildren experience the world of engineering at the University of Sunderland and meet the next generation driving the industry forward.
Children from Fulwell Junior School got the red carpet treatment and "felt like movie stars" for the night after showcasing a big screen premiere of a production of their film at the Sir Tom Cowie Lecture Theatre.
Stitch by stitch, a University of Sunderland academic wants to make a difference and provide a voice to an underserved section of society – children and young people who have been excluded from school.
Hi, my name is Ashleigh, and I am the Head of Post-16 Outreach and Recruitment Events.
I have 10 years experience working within Higher Education and I lead the post-16 team in delivering off and on campus events to prospective students and promoting the University in regional and national areas across the UK, including our First Choice Progression Scheme.
Our aim is to inspire students across the country to apply to the University of Sunderland.
Hi, I’m Paul, and I coordinate student recruitment activity for schools and colleges outside of the north-east region.
I am passionate about providing guidance to adults as well as younger sixth-form and college students about their options in higher education.
I have over 20 years of experience working in education and enjoy building links with local schools and colleges to help support and raise the aspirations of their students.
Hi, my name is Scott, and I coordinate our First Choice Progression Scheme.
I’ll be in touch throughout the year about the great range of events and activities we can offer you and your pupils.
I didn’t access university via the ‘traditional route’ so I strive to support everyone to access university at any age.
Hi, I’m Louise, and I work in the Access to Higher Education team.
Having studied at the University myself I'm keen to share my experience with others.
In my role, I coordinate the Student Ambassador Scheme and also help to plan outreach activities for secondary school pupils.
Hi, I’m Chris, the Student Recruitment Manager, looking after post-16 school and college liaison.
I oversee our relationships with further education providers, ensuring we deliver high-quality and impactful interventions supporting university progression.
I have over 10 years of experience working in all aspects of Student Recruitment, and I am passionate about promoting our excellent offer here at Sunderland, being a former student myself.
Hi, I’m Caroline, and I manage the relationships, recruitment, and outreach activity with key institutions in the north-east.
I have provided support and outreach activity at the University for over 20 years and it has been so rewarding to see students achieve their goals during this time.
Hello, I'm Chloe, and I support Caroline in our Student Recruitment team.
I'm responsible for engaging with local schools and colleges across the north-east to raise aspirations of prospective students and encourage applications to the University.
I also support the wider recruitment team with outreach, open days, and events.
Hi, my name is Stu, and I'm responsible for the coordination and implementation of outreach events to specific Further Education institutions in the North East region and developing the evaluative processes in partnership with the Student Recruitment Officer.
Hi, I’m Sammi, and I work with our First Choice students, supporting them to engage and encouraging them to complete the First Choice progression scheme.
As a graduate and former student ambassador from the University, I love to share my experience with students to help them with their own journey.
Hi, I’m Jane, and I work with our First Choice students – supporting them to engage and encouraging them to complete the First Choice progression scheme.
I am a graduate of the University and a previous ambassador, and I want to share my experiences with students looking to study here as I believe everyone should have access to Higher Education.
Hi, I’m Brandon, and I work with our First Choice students – supporting them to engage and encouraging them to complete the First Choice progression scheme.
I love to share my own experience of university to help students on their journey.
Hello, I'm Kelly.
I'm responsible for working with local schools and colleges across the north-east to raise aspirations and encourage applications to the University.
In addition to my outreach work, I also support the wider student recruitment team with events and activities that promote higher education opportunities here at the University.
Hi, I’m Sara, and I’m part of the First Choice Team.
I support students on their path to higher education, ensuring they have a smooth transition into university life.
My role involves delivering a variety of activities that help students develop key skills, gain a deeper understanding of university, and successfully complete the First Choice Scheme.
By doing so, I help them unlock valuable benefits and pave the way for a successful university experience.
Hi, I'm Darcy, and I work closely with our First Choice students, supporting their engagement as they advance through our progression scheme.
I'm passionate about creating opportunities, such as visits and tasters, to help students make informed choices about their future and ensure they are well-equipped for their transition to higher education.
Hi, I’m Emma, and I’m part of the First Choice Team.
Hi, I’m Hannah and I'm responsible for building and enhancing relationships with schools and colleges in key defined target areas across the UK.
My current priority areas include Cumbria, Yorkshire, and the East Midlands.
My responsibilities include developing and managing relationships that enable the University to widen its reach and engage more effectively with schools and colleges outside the north-east and organising bespoke student recruitment activity to meet their needs.
Hello, my name is Abbie, and I provide a range of essential administrative support to the student recruitment team, stakeholders, and further education institutions.
Hi, I’m Alan, and I'm the Scholarships and Bursaries Officer.
I'm responsible for coordinating the planning, promotion, and reporting of the University’s scholarship and bursary offer.
I was the first person in my family to enter Higher Education and using my knowledge and experiences, I aim to inspire all to access it, no matter their background or personal circumstances.
Hi, I’m Wendy, and I lead the pre-16 team to deliver targeted outreach provision for local primary and secondary schools.
Encouraging participation of under-represented groups is an important part of my role including care experienced and estranged young people and other widening participation cohorts.
I work with schools across the region to provide bespoke support which aims to inspire young people to progress to Further and Higher Education.
Hi, my name is Safeenah and I'm an Assistant in the Widening Access and Participation team.
I aid the bespoke support offered to estranged and care-experienced students to ensure they get the best out of higher education.
My academic experience and personal interest in social inequality drive my passion for equal opportunity, particularly in education.
As a care-experienced person myself, my personal experience encourages me to work towards making university accessible for everyone.
Hi, I’m Katharine and I’m the Widening Access and Participation Manager.
I’ve been developing and delivering activities for young people to raise their aspirations and facilitate their transition into post-16 routes for over 20 years.
Through my work, I aim to inspire young people to make informed choices about higher education and beyond.
Hi, I’m Carolyn, and I work within the pre-16 team coordinating access to Higher Education activities for primary and secondary schools.
I oversee the development and delivery of sessions and events designed to increase participation of a wide range of students from diverse backgrounds.
I also promote the University’s scholarships and bursaries offer.
Hi, I’m Danny, and I currently support the Home Student Recruitment team with all things evaluation.
I have a background in education and science and a love of data and spreadsheets, and I’m currently working towards a PgCert in Access and Outreach.
In my role, I help to evaluate and report on the impact of our incredibly important work across a wide range of events and activities, helping the department better plan for successful events in the future while looking after all the service’s outreach data.
Hi, I’m Jess, the STEMM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Maths, and Medicine) Outreach Coordinator.
I work in the Widening Access and Participation Team to promote pathways to higher education with a STEMM focus.
I also coordinate the University’s partnership with the Aldrin Family Foundation to deliver exciting and innovative space education to local schools.
Hi, I’m Aimee, and I’m the Widening Access and Participation Apprentice.
I support the team with the administration, delivery, and planning of pre-16 outreach activities, interventions and the promotion of the institutional scholarship and bursary offer to increase participation of a wide range of pupils and applications from diverse backgrounds.
Hello, I’m Louise and I’m the Uni Connect Project Coordinator.
I coordinate events and projects that take place as part of the North East Uni Connect Programme such as a tutoring programme focused on English skills for Year 8 and a suite of masterclasses hosted across the region by HE and FE institutions.
I also coordinate campus visits and the delivery of higher education ambassador sessions for Year 11-13 students more widely within our 108 target schools across the north-east.
Subject areas and courses
Fees and funding support

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/enterprise-innovation:
We recognise the increasing challenges facing organisations to innovate to maintain a competitive edge.
The role of Business Services is to act as an agent of change.
Working with partners, we'll respond to their challenges, discover new opportunities to provide support, develop new partnerships, and deliver projects with real impact.
We have a strong track record of working with local, national, and international business and public and third sector organisations.
We can support organisations to develop new knowledge and skills, access funding and expertise, and work with student and academic experts .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/childcare-centre:
The St Mary's Childcare Centre based at City Campus will close permanently on 23 July 2025 .
The University remains fully committed to providing the highest level of care and support during this transition period.
No new applications will be accepted before its closure.
The Childcare Centre will continue to operate until the closure date, and the team will work closely with parents to ensure a smooth transition for their children.
The team will also provide information about alternative childcare providers and local resources to help parents make other arrangements.
More information on alternative childcare providers in the city can be found on Sunderland Information Point .
Our childcare service is registered and inspected regularly by Ofsted, who awarded us the ultimate recognition of 'Good' with Outstanding Behaviours and Attitudes.
All meals are prepared on site – where we have a 5-star hygiene rating – by a qualified professional cook, and dietary requirements can be catered for upon discussion with a child’s keyworker.
Our staff are all professionally qualified, skilled, and experienced.
A comprehensive external, University and service staff development programme provides opportunities to continually update and enhance our knowledge.
Find out more about our childcare centre .
Our staff are highly experienced and possess a wide range of skills and knowledge.
They undergo all necessary clearances from the Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) and a health check, prior to starting employment.
All staff have their DBS check renewed every three years, are paediatric first-aid trained, and safeguarding trained, so you can relax in the knowledge that your child is in the care of staff who you can trust and rely on.
At St Mary’s, you’ll find a healthy, safe, and secure environment.
Your child will engage in an exciting and educational curriculum which is led by our two early years teachers, following the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS).
This promotes teaching and learning to ensure children are ready for school and gives them the broad range of knowledge and skills that provide the right foundation for future progress through school and life.
Keyworkers will track children’s learning and development during their journey with us using a variety of methods, including planning and observation, as well as birth to five trackers.
Children can enjoy activities such as jiggle wiggle, outdoor play, sensory play, and creative time, which will ensure they thoroughly enjoy their time with us.
Once that time is up, we’ll celebrate how far they've come with a graduation ceremony, just like our neighbours at the University.
"I couldn't be happier with St Mary's.
The staff have supported my little girl from small baby to confident toddler.
The children learn so much through play and activities and I can clearly see how much my daughter progresses every day she's there.
She's made some firm friends and her language, social skills, and imagination are developing so much."
Rachel, parent
"The staff at the nursery are amazing – each and every one of them!
They're professional, polite, and passionate about caring for babies and young children.
They do a wonderful job and I would wholeheartedly recommend St Mary’s to any parent.
My children love the nursery and they've been well prepared for the years ahead."
Nicola, parent
"The childcare service provided at St Mary's is second to none!
I've used other providers and they don't come close.
Staff go above and beyond to provide adjusted care for my daughter who has additional medical needs and it gives me peace of mind that she's being well looked after.
The educational and personal development support is exceptional."
Fiona, parent
If you'd like to speak to us regarding availability or to arrange a visit, please get in touch:
0191 515 2286 childcare@sunderland.ac.uk
St Mary's Childcare Centre City Campus Chester Road Sunderland SR1 3SD

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/news:
Published on 21 August 2025
Published on 20 August 2025
Follow us on X (Twitter) for the latest University news, events and updates from our academic experts.
The Head of the School of Medicine at the University of Sunderland has been elected to the Executive Board of the Medical Schools Council (MSC)
A University member of staff – and popular podcaster – is helping create a French connection through a shared love of football
Published on 19 August 2025
A medical student from the University of Sunderland has been recognised at the UK’s largest conference for the professional kidney community
Published on 18 August 2025
John Paul Green is raising money for a charity close to his heart following the loss of his beloved teenage stepson
A local charity have visited City Campus to strengthen the partnership with the University of Sunderland – and to brush up on their climbing skills.
Published on 14 August 2025
Sunderland scores top marks for student support and teaching in new University Guide
Published on 11 August 2025
Making the process easy and getting ready to welcome hundreds of new students to the University community
Aimed at LEGO fans of all ages, Sunderland Brick Festival took place at the University of Sunderland's City Campus
Published on 8 August 2025
Ahlberg is best known for creating and publishing a host of bestselling nursery classics including Peepo!, Funny Bones and Each Peach Pear and Plum

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing is open.
Call us on 0191 515 3000 or apply online.
Apply online
Call us on 0191 515 3000 or complete our online Clearing self-apply form .
Sign up for support and you’ll be matched with a dedicated member of staff, who’ll be your main point of contact over the coming weeks.
They’ll be on hand to offer you tailored one-to-one support, guidance and information throughout the Clearing process.
You can apply through Clearing if:
Search the range of courses that have places available during Clearing.
C601
B720
P507
P500
P505
F101
F100
Health and Clinical Sciences
B940
NN2C
X310
C842
C816
C800
C8BX
C700
B3R5
B7S7
B7S5
B745
C612
C702
B3R6
C802
C845
C843
C817
B941
C613
I102
H110
H3W2
H601
H111
H302
H603
GG46
FG45
G401
I601
I160
X124
X122
P1X1
XG12
L500
P1P2, P1P3
L510
L9N8
M930
P1P1
L512
L9N9
L311
X300
M100
M101
NN1S
NN28
NN29
N831
N830
NN1P
NN1N
NN1H
NN41
N102
N101
N100
B103
P508
W600
W651
W430
W315
HP63
W215
W214
W100
W615
PW36
English
Q300
W221
P504
P509
W601
W470
W655
P310
P502
W225
W240
W105
P315
P303
W230
Q301
W228
CID1298
CID1534
Use our points calculator to find out which courses you could be eligible to apply for.
To assess your eligibility you will need to know:
If you're unsure what tariff points you have, you can find out here UCAS tariff .
Please note, the UCAS Tariff Calculator may not have every known qualification in their list.
If your qualification isn't available and you're unsure, please call us directly on 0191 515 3000 .
21 August: GCSE results day
27 September: Undergraduate Open Day
20 October: Final date to add 2025 entry Clearing choices
Join us on campus at one of our upcoming Open Days:
Saturday 27 September, 10am – 2pm
This is a split site event with activities running at both our campuses.
You’ll need to book your place at the campus where your chosen course is based.
This event is for anyone interested in:
Book your place at the City Campus Undergraduate Open Day on Saturday 27 September.
Book your place at the St Peter's Campus Undergraduate Open Day on Saturday 16 August.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/fees-funding-support/cost-of-living/commuting:
Want to stay at home whilst studying?
Whether you want to save some cash or just love your home comforts, don't worry we can support you when commuting to university.
Sunderland has great public transport links, with a free campus shuttle bus to get around and lots of opportunities to meet new people.
To save money, Jake lives at home with his parents and drives to the nearest Metro station, where he gets off at St Peter's and takes the short walk to the Uni.
"I was worried I might miss out on socialising as a commuting student, but this has not been the case.
I frequently participate in the weekly CineClub events at the Media Centre cinema with my friends, and we run an extra-curricular podcast together".
Read more about Jake's commuting journey .
Laura wanted to commute to university to save money.
She lives a 30-minute drive away from campus and likes to recharge her social battery at home after a long day of lectures and socialising.
"I make the most of my time on campus by having lunch and coffee with my friends and meeting friends on weekends in the city centre or at the beach in Roker".
Read more about Laura's commuting journey .
Ever considered commuting to uni sustainably?
We encourage our students to reduce carbon emissions by travelling by public transport, walking, cycling or even car sharing.
We know this isn't possible for all commuters, but it's a great practice to carry into everyday life too!
Living in Sunderland

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/early-starts:
Want to start university but don't want to wait?
We have a diverse range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses that typically start in January to April each year.
Browse the below courses to find one you're interested in, or register your interest for more information about studying at Sunderland.
Take a huge step towards becoming a qualified accountant.
Gain exemptions from nine exams from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Graduate from a course that will ensure you meet the needs of professional companies.
Top-up your HND (or similar) to a full honours degree.
Develop your expertise in business problem-solving and decision-making.
Enhance skills in a variety of areas.
Leave the course a highly employable graduate with a variety of skills and expertise.
Effective Human Resource Management is essential to the success of any organisation.
Study a CIPD accredited course highly relevant to modern workplaces.
Undertake a year-long placement and put your learning into practice.
Gain sought-after skills and knowledge for a rewarding career in HRM.
Combining industry led experience with cutting-edge teaching, this innovative, employability focused course enables you to develop strong skills and knowledge in all areas of business.
Top up your HND (or similar) to a full honours degree.
Build on your existing knowledge.
Take advantage of our MAPS programmes to make yourself a complete candidate.
Become a part of an industry that can affect the lives of millions.
Hone your organisation skills and gain hands-on management experience.
Put theory into practice through practical work and placements.
Enhance your skills with our industry-standard software to build a range of software systems, hone your talents in project management, and put your knowledge to the test to find solutions to real-life problems, all while working towards a BSc Honours degree.
Immerse yourself in Esports culture on this degree and be at the forefront of a rapidly growing industry.
Gain the contextual knowledge and skills to flourish and work in dynamic interdisciplinary teams within the world of Esports and live streaming.
Carve out your path to a career in a booming sector.
Develop research skills alongside our ‘world-leading’ research team.
Study the areas you’re passionate about with flexible modules.
Graduate as a unique candidate.
Top-up your Higher National Diploma or Travel, Tourism or Hospitality degree to a full degree with this one year course.
Fully prepare yourself for a career in this fast-paced industry.
This course will give you both academic and practical insight into the fascinating sectors of tourism and aviation and will help to prepare you for a range of related careers.
Cover key concept areas including marketing, global tourism, aviation safety and security, the environment and hospitality.
Start your career in Law and study on a recognised course.
Challenge and push yourself to new limits.
Work in real-world environments and gain crucial experience.
Earn the qualification that can open the door to professional training.
Develop your own specialist area of interest such as crime, health or political journalism.
Cover media ethics and law, reporting and public affairs, shorthand and sub-editing and production.
Research and write like a journalist.
Produce a series of in-depth articles or your own newspaper.
Hone your craft in the mediaHUB, our bustling multimedia newsroom.
Improve your knowledge, build your resume and be involved in high-quality media content, with technical skills that are in demand across the TV and Film industries.
Cover areas of 360 commissioning, workflow, moving camera, advanced editing techniques and production management.
Cybersecurity is a fast developing and exciting subject.
There is an unprecedented rise in cybercrime, cyber attacks and cyber threats to individuals, businesses and society.
Resilient cybersecurity systems and infrastructures attempt to prevent attack and protect individuals and businesses from such attacks.
Learn the technical and practical skills to analyse big data that is key to success in future business, digital media and science.
Study industry-specific topics and specialise in areas such as data mining, machine learning, data analytics and visualisation, and security of big data.
Be the type of person who can lead a technical team to deliver on time and on budget.
Build on your technical background while adding business and management skills, including project control, supply chain management, risk management and quality optimisation.
Higher qualifications are required for promotion in the nursing profession.
Take on roles like nurse team manager and nurse consultant by earning this degree.
Continue your professional development and make a significant contribution to people’s health and wellbeing.
Based on the NHS Leadership Framework, you’ll learn to manage people, work within teams, make decisions, evaluate impact and facilitate transformation.
Study for a career in a rapidly expanding sector.
Develop your project management skills in your specific discipline.
Gain insight with practical and theoretical work.
Graduate with experience and knowledge suited for a range of environments.
Are you committed to the goal of improving people’s health?
Undertake specialist training for you to make a real difference.
Cover three key domains, including health improvement, improving services and health protection.
Analyse global and national policy, and its practical implications in an environment that encourages interdisciplinary learning.
Delve into the contemporary issues surrounding the sustainability of regions, cultures and attractions of interest.
Identify different theoretical approaches and consider what is best practice.
Graduate with a wealth of specialist knowledge and employability skills.
Develop your theoretical and practical learning.
Examine hospitality as a global industry.
Create an independent piece of work and apply the skills and knowledge you’ve acquired on a course that is a member of the Institute of Hospitality’s Education Membership Scheme.
Qualify as a teacher with the PGCE iQTS from anywhere in the world, a DfE (UK) recognised International Initial Teacher Training course.
Improve your current Nursing qualification.
Enhance your career prospects.
Top-up your current diploma to an honours degree in only one year.
Join many of our graduates who have gone on to secure senior positions in nursing.
Grasp the opportunity to demonstrate business skills and knowledge in the workplace.
Take advantage of a 12-month taught course followed by a 12-month work placement, facilitated by the University.
An MBA is an internationally respected business qualification.
In one year, you'll develop a strategic understanding of all aspects of managing a successful business.
This Master of Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on marketing, allowing you to specialise in the marketing aspects of senior management.
The course prepares you for senior roles and our aim is to accelerate your progress towards well-paid positions of leadership.
When choosing an MBA, career enhancement is the main driver; the Sunderland MBA is designed with this in mind.
Management and leadership knowledge gained throughout the programme will support your future managerial, functional and sector specific career aspirations.
Gain expert insight into sports venue management.
Study business in a way that interests you.
Fast track your way to promotion.
The two year taught MBA route with enables you undertake a postgraduate certificate to develop sought-after specialist skills in digital marketing and analytics or skills in people management and learning and development.
Develop a mastery of international business contexts and start a global career in management.
Graduate as an in-demand candidate with international appeal.
The Certificate and Diploma in Human Resources Management, Level 7 course has been designed to develop relevant and essential knowledge and skills in People Management and Learning and Development and are a route into professional membership of the CIPD.
We'll prepare you for a future career in HR, and support those who are currently in the early stages of an HRM career to attain a postgraduate qualification.
The courses are particularly suited to those in the workplace, looking for more flexible learning pathways or wishing to pursue part-time study.
Build on your professional skills and educational leadership.
Learn advanced research and study skills while acquiring Masters-level knowledge that is shaped by your personal interests and career aspirations.
This degree fulfils the requirements to become a paramedic with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
This new programme will not only give you the professional knowledge and clinical assessment skills you need to become a confident, autonomous paramedic working within the emergency environment, but also provide the advanced skills required to work in out of hospital care.
On successful completion of this MNurse course, you will be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Registered Nurse (Adult).
The course meets Nursing and Midwifery Standards and will be delivered 50/50 between theory and clinical practice.
It has been developed with a blended learning curriculum which will enable you to study at home as well as on campus and on placement.
While many of our courses begin in September, some of our undergraduate healthcare degrees also have intakes in April, meaning you can start studying sooner.
In this article, we're exploring why it can be beneficial to start your healthcare course in April.
View our courses
Take our Virtual Experience
Scholarships
Postgraduate loans
International students
Mature students
Chat to students and staff

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/student-experience/student-case-studies/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/curtis-noon:
Middlesbrough, UK
BSc (Hons) Biopharmaceutical Science
Curtis Noon had always wanted to become a scientist, and after learning about the pharmaceutical industry and making life-saving drugs he decided to pursue a degree in pharmaceutical sciences.
Curtis joined the University of Sunderland through Clearing and has said yes to all the opportunities that have come his way, including a placement year in industry and becoming course rep.
Watch video
For as long as I can remember I’ve always wanted to grow up and become a ‘scientist’ and going to university to study a science course was a way to do that.
It wasn’t until A Levels that I became interested in the pharmaceutical industry and making life-saving drugs – from then I knew university was a natural route to work within the industry.
I got into Sunderland through Clearing after getting my A-Level results during the first year of Covid.
After searching for courses and universities that I would like to attend I came across the University of Sunderland's Biopharmaceutical Science course.
It was essentially everything I was interested in at A Level, and it included a potential placement year which is what I wanted to pursue.
My favourite part of the course has been the biology-focused modules.
I especially like learning about genetics and the roles genes play in all of us and specifically the role they play in diseases.
Learning about this really hooked me and led me to go away and research more into disease and in particular neurodegenerative disease.
Exploring the world of neuroscience really heightened my already existing interests and I researched further the genetics of neuroscience.
Those modules led me to what I researched for my dissertation so the biology modules are definitely my favourite part!
My career prospects have definitely progressed to a level I didn't expect to achieve.
The placement year I completed helped me get a really good insight into a small but important pharmaceutical company, from which I learned so much from so many people.
The year's experience allowed me to make valuable connections which has helped me a lot in my final year!
In the future I would like to stay within the industry and potentially even open my own pharmaceutical company one day!
My number one piece of advice to any prospective students is to get involved in any way you can.
Ask a lecturer if you can stay back a little longer to work on a lab skill to boost your CV, ask to be a course rep and represent your peers in the SU, ask to volunteer!
Likewise, if anyone asks you to help with anything just say yes!
This will definitely improve your character and CV so it’s a good way to grow as a person.
I’ve helped with so many things and asked loads of questions and without doing that I wouldn’t be the person I am today.
So, ask questions and say yes!
The University has had such a massive impact on my life.
It has allowed me to gain so many excellent qualities which I’ll carry with me for my entire life.
I’ve grown in confidence and the opportunities Sunderland has provided allowed for this growth to happen.
Of course, it’s been challenging, but I wouldn’t change anything as I’ve grown into a person I’m proud of.”
Published 14 June 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/news/university-news/2025/sunderland-university-national-student-survey-2025:
Published on 10, July, 2025
Delighted students have heaped praise on courses at the University of Sunderland in this year’s National Student Survey (NSS).
A diverse range of programmes across all the University’s faculties and the University of Sunderland in London have received 100% positivity scores from students.
Results from this year’s Survey show the University is improving in almost all areas measured, including teaching, support for students, and developing skills for the future.
The results also revealed that in every theme and question where students were asked to give feedback, the University scored above the average for the higher education sector.
The NSS is the biggest survey of final-year students’ views in the UK.
The main questionnaire provides widely published data that informs university league tables.
And this year’s results proved a big win for Sunderland.
The survey revealed 100% positivity ratings for the academic support available on programmes including Physiotherapy, Childhood Studies, and Primary Education with SEND (Special Educational Needs and Disabilities), while the ‘Freedom of Expression’ question also scored top results on courses including Midwifery Practice, Manufacturing Engineering Practice, and Game Development.
Overall, students praised the University’s student-focused teaching, with 87.1% reacting positively on the theme of Assessment and Feedback – 6.2% above the higher education sector average.
The University’s professions-facing strategy – which aims to get our students job-ready – also struck gold with 90.1% reacting positively when asked how well their course developed the knowledge and skills for the future, 4.9% above the sector average.
Many other areas also proved successful, with students giving ‘Learning opportunities’ at the University an 87.8% positivity rate – 3.5% above the national average.
In addition, 81.8% praised the University’s efforts in the ‘Student Voices’ theme – 4.4% above the sector average.
Sunderland’s commitment to putting students at the heart of everything it does also proved popular, scoring a 91.3% positivity score when it came to students expressing their ideas, options and beliefs.
Sir David Bell, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of the University, said: “For the University of Sunderland, the National Student Survey is one important indicator as it gives us direct insight into the views and experience of students – and we are very pleased with this year’s results.
“While surveys cannot give us all the information we need, they are important in providing feedback from students which will help us to identify what we do well and highlight areas where we could make improvements.” Sunderland Students’ Union was also highlighted for representing the academic interests of the student community, coming in with an 80.8% positivity rating – 4.8% above the sector average.
Ade Adeoye, President at Sunderland Students’ Union, said: “The results of this year’s NSS are very positive.
We have made excellent progress as an organisation in many areas over the past 12 months, and we’re always keen to develop further.
“We look forward to continuing to make the student experience the best it can be, working to achieve this aim alongside the University.
“At the Students’ Union, we are passionate about helping to positively and meaningfully shape students’ lives for the future, empowering them to make their time at the University as successful as possible, and ensuring that their feedback is heard, valued and addressed.” >
“While surveys cannot give us all the information we need, they are important in providing feedback from students which will help us to identify what we do well and highlight areas where we could make improvements.”
Sunderland Students’ Union was also highlighted for representing the academic interests of the student community, coming in with an 80.8% positivity rating – 4.8% above the sector average.
“At the Students’ Union, we are passionate about helping to positively and meaningfully shape students’ lives for the future, empowering them to make their time at the University as successful as possible, and ensuring that their feedback is heard, valued and addressed.”
>
BSc (Hons) Midwifery Practice
BSc (Hons) Game Development
Back to more news

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/news/university-news/2025/womens-rugby-world-cup-2025:
Published on 21, August, 2025
With the Women's Rugby World Cup 2025 set to kick-off on Wearside, the University of Sunderland is celebrating the opening match alongside the rest of the city.
In the build up to the England vs USA match at the Stadium of Light on Friday 22 August, the University will be involved in a range of activities.
Team Sunderland joined the Newcastle Rugby Foundation for its Seaburn Beach Festival on Wednesday 20 August.
Over the course of the day, teams from across the city competed in touch rugby matches organised in partnership with the North East Combined Authority.
Sean Percival, Sport Performance and Activities Development Manager at Team Sunderland, said: “This is a fantastic opportunity to support the city on a historic week as we prepare for the opening game of the Women’s Rugby World Cup.
“We’re looking forward to showcasing the best of the University of Sunderland and Team Sunderland on the day of the opening match.” England’s Red Roses will be taking on the USA, with England favourites to win the tournament after last winning the World Cup in 2014.
Sunderland will be welcoming tens of thousands of fans over the weekend after selling over 40,000 tickets for the opening match.
On match day, Team Sunderland will also join others at the Fan Village in Keel Square, which will open from 9am.
The Fan Village will offer a range of food, drink, interactive walkabout characters and rugby-themed activities, including pass speed and accuracy challenges, jump height tests, and a reaction wall for the public.
All car parking will be charged at £4 per car on the University's city centre and St Peter's sites, with all funds raised going to support Rotary Club charities and the University’s Futures Fund scholarship programme.
University Ambassadors will also be on site from 3pm to 5pm to signpost and support visitors to the City.
> University Alumna Katy Daley-McLean MBE, former England Women rugby captain, will also be at the Stadium of Light as part of the BBC coverage of the opening match.
Celebrations will continue on Saturday 23 August, as Sunderland BIDs is set to relocate the Sunniside Food Market to Keel Square for a day-long festival of music, entertainment and family-friendly activities.
Councillor Michael Mordey, Leader of Sunderland City Council, said: "It's such a proud moment for our city to be hosting the opener for the biggest ever Women's Rugby World Cup and we can't wait to give a warm Sunderland welcome to the many thousands of fans from home and abroad who are coming here for the match.
"It's a brilliant opportunity to showcase Sunderland on the international stage and we're aiming to create a real carnival atmosphere in the city centre that week with exciting events in the lead up to and after the match as we continue to work with our partners, businesses and communities to make this both a fantastic and memorable event.
"Attracting events of this scale is not only good for our city but for the north-east as a whole, with the opening match expected to bring with an estimated £20m economic boost to the region.”
“We’re looking forward to showcasing the best of the University of Sunderland and Team Sunderland on the day of the opening match.”
England’s Red Roses will be taking on the USA, with England favourites to win the tournament after last winning the World Cup in 2014.
University Alumna Katy Daley-McLean MBE, former England Women rugby captain, will also be at the Stadium of Light as part of the BBC coverage of the opening match.
University staff and students are feeling the buzz for the Women’s Rugby
Has the status of women’s sport changed for the better?

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/news/university-news/2025/team-sunderland-bbc-one-show-rugby:
Published on 20, August, 2025
Rugby Union teams from the University of Sunderland have featured on BBC1’s The One Show ahead of the opening fixture of the Women’s Rugby World Cup.
Representatives from both Team Sunderland's men’s and women’s squads were filmed being put through their paces at the new rugby pitch next to the University’s St Peter’s Campus.
Students were interviewed by 2024 Britain’s Got Talent winner Sydnie Christmas, who asked about the impact of women’s sport and the Women's Rugby World Cup.
Laura Hockaday, Team Sunderland Sport Development Assistant Manager, said: “This was a fantastic opportunity to showcase our rugby programme and the best of the University of Sunderland.
“We’re very proud of our students and the way they embraced this challenge.” England’s Red Roses will be taking on the USA at the Stadium of Light tonight (Friday 22 August), with England favourites to win the tournament after last winning the World Cup in 2014.
Team Sunderland offers a wide range of sporting opportunities cross the University and supports students with their participation in sport and exercise.
Find out more here .
For more information about Rugby Union at the University of Sunderland contact team@sunderland.ac.uk Watch last night's (21 August) episode of The One Show here .
“We’re very proud of our students and the way they embraced this challenge.”
England’s Red Roses will be taking on the USA at the Stadium of Light tonight (Friday 22 August), with England favourites to win the tournament after last winning the World Cup in 2014.
For more information about Rugby Union at the University of Sunderland contact team@sunderland.ac.uk
Watch last night's (21 August) episode of The One Show here .
Celebrating rugby in Sunderland ahead of the Women's World Cup

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/news/comment-and-opinion/2025/the-profile-of-womens-sport:
Dr Paul Davis , Senior Lecturer in the Sociology of Sport and Exercise at University of Sunderland, has shared his insights into the status of women’s sports in the aftermath of the Lionesses’ Euro Cup win and ahead of the Women’s Rugby World Cup.
"The Lionesses’ second successive Euro triumph was the most watched television moment of 2025 across all TV broadcasters, with a peak live audience of 12.2 million across all BBC platforms.
This illustrates the dramatic improvement in the status of women’s football.
When women’s football resumed in Britain in 1972 with a match between England and Scotland, the contest figured on Scottish Television’s Friday sport preview only as a moment of comic relief, a player having only just discovered her pregnancy and therefore having to withdraw from consideration.
Five decades later, elite female footballers are now household names and front-page material for the same, serious reasons as their male counterparts.
Opportunity, practice, coaching and investment has resulted in a vastly improved standard of player and team.
Olivia Smith provides illustration as the first million pounds female player.
> Dr Paul Davis The above progress consolidates the status of women and girls as physically and mentally able and dynamic.
Again, female strength and competence do not carry the social connotations of mannishness and lesbianism to the extent they once did.
Similarly, the historical tendencies towards sexualisation and infantilisation of sportswomen (and females in general) are substantially declining.
At the same time, few doubt that there remains a way to go.
Coverage of women’s football (and sport) remains less than that of male football (and sport).
There is substantially less money in the women’s game, graphically illustrated by the fact that the first million pounds UK male transfer (Trevor Francis) was in 1979, and by the consequences of the Covid pandemic.
And, as the case of Lauren James illustrates, a more visible women’s game is not invulnerable to the spite and poison that historically disfigures the fan culture of the male game.
Again, however, there is the opportunity for the female game to be an engine of cultural change.
The sharp proximity and English hosting of the Women’s Rugby World Cup provides a rare opportunity to consolidate the profile of female sport in England (and Britain).
While there is no guarantee of further English glory, the tournament will (like the football Euros) luminously illustrate female capacities thought barely credible half a century ago.
While the deficits yet suffered by women’s football (investment and coverage, for example) are paralleled in women’s rugby, the material and cultural trajectory of the latter gives equivalent ground for hope."
The above progress consolidates the status of women and girls as physically and mentally able and dynamic.
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Sciences

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-inclusion/networks:
The University has a wide range of networks open for both staff and students to join.
The aim of the groups are to:
If you wish to join any of these staff networks or wish to have a discussion about creating one then please contact justine.gillespie@sunderland.ac.uk , Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Manager.
The full-time University Chaplain is the Reverend Chris Howson.
He is based within Student Support Services, 1st Floor Edinburgh, City Campus or at the Interfaith Chaplaincy Centre, St Peters Campus SR6 0AN.
Chris can be reached at chris.howson@sunderland.ac.uk .
The University is also supported by associate chaplains of different faiths, find out more on Student wellbeing pages.
Launched in June 2005, ECU’s Athena SWAN Charter evolved from work between the Athena Project and the Scientific Women’s Academic Network (SWAN).
The Athena SWAN Charter is a scheme which recognises and celebrates good employment practice for women working in science, technology, engineering, medicine and mathematics (STEMM) in higher education and research.
In May 2015 the charter was expanded to recognise work undertaken in arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law (AHSSBL), and in professional and support roles, and for trans staff and students.
The charter now recognises work undertaken to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.
As a university which remains committed to the principles of Athena SWAN, the University of Sunderland was one of the first, groundbreaking universities that was awarded Bronze Award status for the advancement and promotion of careers of women in SET.
Subsequently, we have continued to make significant progress and practical changes that address gender equality, and we successfully renewed our Bronze Award status in April 2019.
We are also delighted that our psychology team achieved a bronze award in April 2021.
This is a network for students and academics at the University who have research interests in gender and sexuality.
Their aims are:
Subscribe to their email list , or contact angela.smith@sunderland.ac.uk for more information.
The Race, Class and Ethnicity (RaCE) Interdisciplinary Research Network was inaugurated in October 2018.
It was developed as a response to the current and historic realities woven into the lived experiences of race, class, and ethnicity in everyday locations.
The fundamental logics of the network are that societal concerns related to economy, poverty and racisms retain their power as influencing factors in everyday places and spaces.
How these three intersecting social constructs are understood and materialise are of central concern to the Equality Act 2010 and to the requirements of public bodies to develop anti-discriminatory and inclusive practices.
More information is available in our Research section.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/contact-us:
Contact details for the University switchboard and helpline.
We'd love to hear from you.
Find out where we are and how you can find us.
Learn more about our campuses and the services that they offer.
Find information on staff and student car parking and the various permits that are available.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/contact-us/parking:
There are car parks at both of our Sunderland campuses, but due to the location of the campuses...
Parking costs £1.60 per hour or £6 per day.
If you’re living in University accommodation, you must register your vehicle.
By registering your vehicle with the University parking scheme you will be entitled to parking at a reduced rate.
The City Campus Travel Hub offers a drop-off area.
Reserved parking is available for corporate and VIP visitors to the University on a first come, first served basis...
If you need to change the details of your registered vehicle because you have moved house or changed your car for example, please email parkingservices@sunderland.ac.uk
Motorcycles can be parked for free but must not be parked in parking bays – there are various areas...

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/contact-us/getting-here:
The postcode varies depending on your destination...
Useful information for those travelling to the University of Sunderland by Metro.
The University is serviced by a number of bus services and bus stops...
Useful information for those travelling to the university by coach.
Sunderland central train station has connections to a range of major cities, including London, York and Newcastle...
There is secure cycle storage and cycle racks located around campus.
The Sunderland campuses are located just over a mile apart, and are within walking distance of each other...
Yes - you can download campus maps from our website.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/about/about-the-university/how-university-managed:
The University of Sunderland's vision is to be bold and inspirational in providing education, research and creative practice, which offers transformative experiences to students, staff, communities and business partners in the UK and across the world.
Learn more about how the University is managed, from the structure of our Executive Team, to our Strategic Plan.
The University has a leadership structure that ensures progress is being made against the objectives set out in the Strategic Plan.
Learn more about the University's leadership
The University has set out its ambitions and how it plans to develop over the next five-year period in its Strategic Plan 2020 – 2025.
Strategic plan
The University of Sunderland publishes and maintains information on its legal statements and other related documents.
See our legal statements

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/more/celt:
CELT provides inspirational and supportive leadership, services and resources for all staff involved in teaching.
We also aim to drive learning enhancement and pedagogic research, share good practice through inclusive networks, facilitate staff recognition and excellence awards, support innovative curriculum development, and promote technologies and skills for eLearning.
With expertise across a wide range of disciplines and pedagogical methods, the CELT team are available to help, support, and advise individual academic staff or teams to transform their teaching and learning practices.
Through our Recognition, Award and Reward activities, we support the professional development of teaching staff, providing mentorship, advice, and ongoing specialist support to staff via the Learning and Teaching Academy.
CELT organise a wide range of continuing professional development (CPD) courses which are open to all staff.
Staff from London and Hong Kong can either join via a webinar or we can provide bespoke training onsite.
We're happy to tailor any course to meet the needs of specific teams.
My role involves supporting the achievement of key learning and teaching enhancement objectives across the University as well as engaging and developing our academic community undertaking the PGCE and Masters in Higher Education.
I have over 25 years' experience in organisational leadership and development and 14 years' experience in higher education.
My role is about supporting academic teaching staff who deliver University programms in our three campuses and in our collaborative partners.
I produce online and face-to-face courses and provide specific pedagogic development sessions to meet the needs of individuals, subject teams and cross-institution groups.
I also manage the operation of the Universitys HEA Fellowship Recognition Scheme.
I am the Learning Design Manager in the Centre for Enhancement of Learning and Teaching with responsibility for supervising and coordinating the operational work of the Learning Technology Team, ensuring that we provide a comprehensive range of support and development for staff.
I am a TEL Systems Manager within the University’s Centre for Enhancement of Learning and Teaching.
Primarily I lead on the development and support of the University’s Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas.
I also develop learning materials and offer support around classroom based technologies.
I am a Learning Technologist/Developer in the University’s Centre for Enhancement of Learning and Teaching, with a specific focus on video based technologies as well as supporting the University’s VLE usage.
I am a Learning Technologist in the University’s Centre for Enhancement of Learning and Teaching, with a primary focus on VLE support as well other classroom based technologies and mobile learning.
In addition to this I also support academics with the creation of online surveys for student feedback.
I am a Learning Technologist in the University’s Centre for Enhancement of Learning and Teaching, with a primary focus supporting Study Online programmes as well as supporting the University’s VLE usage.
I provide support on academic module spaces: assisting content creation on Canvas, the development of interactive learning features and guidance on instructional design practices.
I work on creating content for various modules including interactive learning tools and helping to improve the visual style and consistency of Canvas modules.
My primary role is to create learning materials and help academics build module spaces on Canvas.
Contact us at celt@sunderland.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/corporate-legal/publication-scheme/policies-and-procedures:
The University has a number of policies, procedures and guidance notes which relate to Academic Services which can be found in the Academic Handbook .
The University offers a number of services to our students including:
Other University policies can be accessed via the links below:
Read more information about the University of Sunderland’s Information Governance .
For additional policies such as terms and conditions of employment, collective bargaining and consultation with trade unions, or People Training and Development, please contact HRenquiries@sunderland.ac.uk .
To request further information on any of the areas listed above, or Estate Management Policies complete this webform , email sunfoi@sunderland.ac.uk , or write to:
University of Sunderland Legal and Governance 4th floor Edinburgh Building Chester Road Sunderland SR1 3SD
The University of Sunderland does not currently charge for information which is routinely published.
Published: 16 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year:
Have you missed out on achieving the entry requirements for university?
Are you thinking about returning to studying but feel that a degree is beyond your reach?
Find out more about the degrees we offer with an Integrated Foundation Year.
An Integrated Foundation Year is an extra year prior to starting on one of our three-year courses.
This additional Foundation Year has been specially designed to prepare you in gaining the study skills and subject knowledge required for the rest of your honours degree.
Over 50 of our courses are available with an Integrated Foundation Year , covering a broad range of subject areas that includes Business and Management, Social Sciences, Psychology, Engineering, and Journalism to name a few.
If you want to improve your career prospects by having a universally-recognised qualification, we can offer you one of our four-year Integrated Foundation Year routes that matches your ambition.
Opting to study for a degree with an Integrated Foundation Year will appeal to a variety of different applicants.
Many students on our Foundation Year courses come to us with no formal qualifications but with relevant and valuable work experience.
The Foundation Year route may be suitable for those who've been out of education for some time and would benefit from building on their academic skills, or for anybody who's embarking on a new career path.
They might also be a great option for those applicants who have just missed the grades required for direct entry onto their chosen course.
I couldn’t recommend the Foundation Year route enough for people who are in the same boat as me.
The Foundation Year enabled me to become familiar with the campus and facilities prior to my LLB.
Thanks to the Integrated Foundation Year, I was able to build my academic confidence.
There are many advantages to studying for one of our degrees with an Integrated Foundation Year.
First and foremost, alongside gaining an introduction to your chosen course, you'll develop essential academic skills such as writing, communication, problem-solving, and independent study.
The extra Foundation Year will allow you to build your confidence in a higher education environment so you'll feel more prepared going into the first year of your degree.
You'll also have the opportunity to get to know the people you'll be studying with for the next few years and benefit from receiving full support from academic staff, including one-to-one tutorials where you can seek valuable advice and make sure you're on track with your studying.
At the beginning of each academic year, we run the Integrated Foundation Year Champion’s Event, an induction for new students, led by our current students.
Attending this event will give you the opportunity to ask any questions you might have and hear all about what it’s like to study on one of our courses with a Foundation Year first-hand.
You’ll also have the chance to meet your new peers and get involved with fun activities like our tombola, prize draw, and cake sale.
This is a four-year version of BEng Sustainable Design Engineering with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Study a unique course focused on the techniques used to analyse engineering systems.
Develop the skills and knowledge needed to become a professional engineer.
Understand and apply manufacturing and management techniques.
This is a four-year version of BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with an integrated foundation year.
Gain well-rounded knowledge in the scientific investigation of human health and disease.
Develop a comprehensive understanding of biomedicine.
Acquire specialist knowledge in microbiology, immunology, pathophysiology and clinical biochemistry.
Gain real-world experience by undertaking a placement.
Graduate and work in a wide range of roles, in the NHS and in clinical laboratories and drug companies.
This is a four-year version of BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Work in the challenging field of drug discovery and development.
Play a vital role in sustaining the health and wellbeing of our society.
Grow your employability and gain real world experience with a 48-week placement.
You could find yourself working with multinational companies such as GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca.
This is a four-year version of BSc (Hons) Tourism and Aviation Management.
Study criminals and their crimes with a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology course.
This course will directly prepare you for application to postgraduate forensic psychology courses and graduate jobs in prisons, rehabilitation units, and secure hospitals as well as in public services, social work and teaching positions.
Specialist forensic psychology modules will develop your knowledge and skills.
You'll also have the opportunity to undertake a work-based placement to gain real-life experience of the field.
This new course will introduce you to the field of clinical psychology and will encourage you to develop a comprehensive understanding of core psychological theories and concepts.
You will learn how to apply these theories and concepts to understanding how mental health problems develop such as anxiety, depression, addiction and learning difficulties and how they can be treated.
You will not only gain knowledge about mental health problems but also acquire the skills to work in mental health services.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Social Media Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
Create great content from video to graphics.
Understand analytics and develop tactics, social campaigns, and strategies to reach and engage audiences and build brand reputation.
Get the skills and experience for your social media career.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Screen Performance course, with an integrated foundation year.
You'll learn the insider skills and techniques for television, film, and radio and master industry standards and conventions alongside practitioners and leading researchers.
We’ll guide you through the different genres of screen performance such as drama, comedy, soap opera, and factual reportage.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Psychology course, with an integrated foundation year.
With an exciting range of modules to suit an array of different interests, BPS accreditation and specialist psychological laboratories, you’ll be perfectly set up for a career in psychology.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling course, with an integrated foundation year.
Learn how we interact with each other and about the decisions we make.
Study the brain and a wide range of phenomena.
Acquire knowledge and skills in counselling that can be embedded in a range of situations.
Graduate with a broad skill set that can be applied to careers in social work, public services, counselling, clinical or forensic psychology or counselling.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Sciences course, with an integrated foundation year.
Learn about the industry in its broadest form on a course endorsed by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences.
Study high-quality modules in physiology, injury rehabilitation, nutrition and biomechanics, using industry-standard facilities for measuring speed, agility, reactions and enzymes in the body.
Take advantage of the opportunity to train as a gym instructor or personal trainer.
This is a four year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education, with an integrated foundation year.
Our course aims to develop aspiring coaches and future educators equipped to teach in the primary, secondary and tertiary educational settings.
The course is aligned to the industry standards as set by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
This is a four-year version of our popular BEng (Hons) Electronic and Electrical Engineering course, with an integrated foundation year.
Develop expert level skills in electronic and electrical engineering.
Gain hands-on experience using our state-of-the-art facilities to apply project-oriented and design-based learning techniques to real world problems.
Learn about sustainable solutions to the technological challenges faced by modern society.
This is a four-year version of our popular BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering course, with an integrated foundation year.
Take advantage of top-class teaching, world-leading research and state-of-the-art facilities.
Network with some of the country’s leading professionals, enhance your problem solving skills and even build your own racing car.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Business and Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
Combine industry led experience with cutting-edge teaching.
Develop strong skills and knowledge in all areas of business with this innovative, and employability focused course.
Start a rewarding career in management.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
Now, more than ever, marketing is a subject that impacts everyone’s lives.
Gain the specialist skills and knowledge to prepare yourself for a career in the exciting field of marketing in this professionally accredited course.
Undertake a paid placement.
Graduate and embark on a rewarding career.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
Gain a solid business education and gain essential skills in financial management.
Develop specialist knowledge of the profession which can lead to many business career paths, including the global accounting and finance sector.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Childhood Studies, with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Refine your professional approach, build up the graduate attributes of a reflective practitioner, and cover a range of topics that include child development, early years, the primary curriculum, and family studies.
Combine practical skills with academic rigour and work more effectively with children in a variety of contexts.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society course, with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Prepare yourself for the increasing number of jobs in the highly rewarding areas of health, wellbeing and social care.
Develop your knowledge and skills in areas such as psychosocial perspectives of health, counselling, research, health improvement, and behaviour change.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Community and Youth Work course, with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Make a real difference to the lives of young people aged between 13 and 19 and their communities.
Become a professionally qualified youth worker with a course accredited and endorsed by the National Youth Agency.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Criminology course, with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Learn about crime, criminal behaviour and punishment, visit criminal courts and prisons, and take advantage of volunteering opportunities and an optional placement in a relevant organisation.
Develop analytical and practical skills in both quantitative and qualitative research, often needed for further academic study and highly sought after by employers.
This is a four-year version of our BSc (Hons) Professional Policing course, with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Study current topics such as digital policing and organised crime and terrorism.
Help tackle crime and anti-social behaviour.
Graduate and go on to apply for a role as a Police Constable in England and Wales.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Education Studies degree, with an Integrated Foundation Year.
If a career in a wide range of educational contexts with young people and adults, such as teaching, support, training, administration and research interests you, then this course is for you.
Gain an in-depth understanding about the aims and values of education in society today with a rigorous academic approach.
This is a four-year version of our popular LLB (Hons) Law course, with an integrated foundation year.
This is a four-year version of our BSc (Hons) Computer Science course, with an integrated foundation year.
Study the fundamentals of Computer Science including artificial intelligence (AI), coding, DevOps, Internet of Things (IoT), robotics and cybersecurity.
Challenge your creativity and technical skills with a series of exciting, hands-on practical projects.
This is a four-year version of our BSc (Hons) Game Development course, with an integrated foundation year.
Dive into the world of game creation using game engines, console gamepads, flight/vehicle controls, and VR devices.
Work in our Game Development Lab to build a portfolio of games that demonstrate your technical prowess in gameplay programming and developing engaging player experiences.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics course, with an integrated foundation year.
In a world where cybercrime is on the rise, the need for highly-skilled professionals has never been higher.
Gain vital industry experience and contacts with a paid, one-year placement, unlock information using ethical hacking and learn the fundamentals of programming with modules in C#, Java and SQL.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Journalism course, with an integrated foundation year.
Study a practical journalism degree, led by professional journalists who've worked for some of the UK’s biggest titles.
Work closely with industry to learn the cutting-edge skills required to make your mark in the media.
Become a journalist from the day you arrive and work for our award-winning radio station and websites, covering everything from news, to sport, fashion, arts, and entertainment.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Sports Journalism course, with an integrated foundation year.
Launch your career as a sports journalist for top-end multimedia sports platforms such as Sky Sports News, BBC Sport, or national newspapers, or join the media teams of Premier League clubs, Formula One teams, or golf's DP World Tour.
Gain the skills to work with, and for, the best in the business on this NCTJ-accredited course.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Fashion Journalism course, with an integrated foundation year.
This innovative course is the UK’s only fashion journalism degree to have NCTJ accreditation.
Work on the University’s fashion platform, Fashion North, and learn the core skills that every fashion journalist needs to make it in the industry.
Write features, style photoshoots, create fashion spreads, and produce your own magazine to impress prospective employers.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Film and Media course, with an integrated foundation year.
This distinctive course offers a rich and diverse range of exciting subjects.
Study film and media theory alongside practical-based modules in film production.
You'll cover the historical contexts and contemporary debates in film, media, and cultural studies, exploring and examining areas including film theory and analysis, screen genres, scriptwriting, the study of mass media, and cultural representation.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Media Production course, with an integrated foundation year.
Learn to deliver compelling TV and radio.
Gain a technical understanding of the industry and real-life experience through placements.
Enhance your employability by gaining industry accreditation.
Graduate with a detailed portfolio, developed skills, and technical insight.
This is a four-year version of the BA (Hons) English: Creative and Professional Writing course, with an integrated foundation year.
The course enables you to understand writing as a profession while exploring and developing your own creative talent.
You'll be supported by published writers and senior academics to hone your writing and apply your knowledge to literary, technical, and professional work.
You'll acquire skills in pitching, presenting, and networking and will also learn about a range of industries where writers are in high demand.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Performing Arts course, with an integrated foundation year.
Learn to be a versatile performing artist.
Personalise your studies between dance, drama, and musical theatre to suit your evolving interests and aspirations.
Become a confident, experienced, industry-ready professional.
Study a wide range of modules to suit your interests, including Fine Art Media Skills, History of Art, and Fine Art Contemporary Practice which will culminate with an exhibition in your final year, giving you the opportunity to showcase your work to a public audience.
Our course provides you with the wide-ranging skills needed for success in today’s photographic industries and beyond.
Learn how to make high quality digital and traditional images in our state-of-the-art facilities.
Tell compelling stories about the things that matter to you with guidance from our expert team of practising photographers.
Develop your own distinct visual language and acquire the skills and contacts to get your work out into the world.
Do you want to work in the animation and games industries?
Use digital software such as Maya, Toon Boom, and After Effects as part of this degree.
Learn the core principles of character-led animation.
Showcase your creativity to a public audience in the final year Degree Show.
Work on live projects set by fashion industry professionals.
Focus on a wide range of options to suit your interests such as design and manufacture, photography, styling, branding, and magazine design.
Undertake industry-relevant modules such as Fashion Product and Promotion and Design Theory.
Create a personalised fashion portfolio.
Graduate work-ready and pursue a career in a range of industries including design, brand development, fashion publishing, production, public relations, and fashion retail.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Graphic Design course, with an integrated foundation year.
Study a wide range of modules with flexible options to suit your interests, such as Visual Communication, Motion Graphics and Branding, and Position and Identity.
Acquire valuable skills relevant to a career in design and work alongside like-minded students within a creative and supportive environment.
Graduate with a portfolio of work to showcase your creativity and impress prospective employers.
Are you passionate about drawing and full of creative ideas?
If so, our Illustration and Design degree is for you.
Benefit from generous studio space and well-equipped workshops.
Flourish in a creative environment working alongside like-minded students and showcase your work to a public audience in your final year Degree Show.
This is a four-year version of the BA (Hons) Film Production with an integrated foundation year.
It's a distinctive course for students who love film and want to enter the film industry.
Learn how to create content such as short films, documentaries, music videos, and commercials, and gain practical experience and instruction in film crew roles such as director, producer, cinematographer, editor, scriptwriter, and sound mixer.
This is a four-year version of our BSc (Hons) Biochemistry course with an integrated foundation year.
Study life at molecular level.
Utilise the latest technologies in genetics, chemistry, computation and analytical sciences.
Access expertise and resources that are used by our long-standing Biomedical and Pharmaceutical courses.
Develop transferable skills you can apply in a range of employment situations.
Graduate fully equipped to work in pharmaceutics, biological research and clinical and pathological sciences.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Cosmetic Science course with an integrated foundation year.
It allows you to gain expertise in the formulation, manufacture, regulation, and quality control of cosmetic fragrance and personal care products.
Enhance your employability with a year-long paid industry placement and earn an average of £14,000–£18,000.
Graduate fully equipped to work as a researcher or scientist for the cosmetic industry.
Events

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/accessibility:
Our aim is to make all University websites as usable and accessible as possible, so we hope you can find, access and use the material you're looking for.
For accessibility statements relating to each individual website, please refer to our Related Content section.
The website content is displayed using cascading style sheets (CSS) which means that you can resize the text within the web browser you are using and make it a size that you find easier to read.
For more information on how to do this, please see
Making text larger
The website uses responsive templates that re-arrange content according to the width of the screen you are using.
This makes the content easier to read whether you are using a desktop PC, a tablet or a phone.
The first tab on any page will give you the option to jump straight to this accessibility statement.
The second tab on any page will allow you to skip to main content, skipping past any navigational links.
For Mac users, keyboard tabbing in Firefox and Safari may require you to enable settings on your machine or browser.
To enable the settings:
All pages contain a link to the home page by clicking on the University of Sunderland logo and all pages include a search box: both are found in the menu area at the top of the page.
Breadcrumbs underneath the search box and above the page content can help users retrace steps through the site.
The site map can be found in the footer of every page.
You can also use our feedback form to ask us about any content you are unable to find.
A description of every image is provided, either in the alt tag or on the page itself.
We try to ensure that link text makes sense out of context and that it accurately describes the pages it points to.
You can use the tab key on your keyboard (as well as your mouse) to move from consecutive link to link.
Some of the information on our website is in Portable Document Format (PDF).
You will need Adobe Acrobat Reader to read PDF files.
Adobe Acrobat Reader can be downloaded free of charge from the Adobe website .
Later versions of this software provide a number of features that improve access for users.
Advice and help on creating accessible PDF documents using the Read Out Loud functionality is available.
In addition, there are several customisation options for your browser and device that could help you use this website and other websites more effectively:
Published: 8 December 2022

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/terms-and-conditions:
These Terms and Conditions apply to students of the University of Sunderland.
They refer to other documents, policies, procedures and regulations of the University which are part of the contractual arrangements.
You should therefore read this and the other documents carefully.
The additional documents, including the Student Handbook, can be found on the University’s website.
Your particular attention is drawn to:
1.
The terms of the Tuition Fee and Refund Policy that is applicable to your studies (this includes details of when fees may change, as well as detailing circumstances in which you may cancel your place or withdraw from a programme;
2.
The University’s right to make changes to the course or programme (see clause 6)
3.
The circumstances in which the University excludes or limits its liability to you (see clause 13).
Introduction
1.1 This document, together with the documents referred to within it, sets out the Terms and Conditions that apply to students of the University of Sunderland.
1.2 These terms do not apply to Apprentices or Work Based Learners who have been provided with alternative terms and conditions specific to them.
1.3 These terms will also apply to students who receive educational services from a collaborative partner of the University in conjunction with the University.
Such students will also be bound by the terms and applicable regulations of the partner institution they are studying with.
1.4 Course directories and prospectuses (including online prospectuses) describe programmes which are available from the University.
Programme documents and specifications describe the relevant programme information.
1.5 In this document, the following terms shall have the meanings as follows:
“ Additional Charges ” means charges in addition to the tuition fees which may include (but are not limited to) payment for study materials provided by the University such as creative art materials, computer disks, special paper or learning packs which are intended as cheaper alternatives to textbooks, and the cost of mandatory field trips included in the programme.
“ Apprentice(s) ” means an individual who has enrolled on and is undertaking and completing an apprenticeship programme with the University funded by their employer or the ESFA.
“ Distance Learning ” means learning undertaken by students remotely from the University such as via online methods.
“ Educational Services ” means the teaching, examination, assessment and other educational services provided by the University.
“ Student ” or “ you ” means a student of the University;
“ Student Handbook ” means the Student Handbook which is published by the University.
Unless otherwise agreed, the latest version of the handbook will apply.
“ Tuition Fee and Refund Policy ” means the Tuition Fee and Refund Policy which is relevant to your studies and is published from time to time on the University’s website.
“ University ” or “ we ” means the University of Sunderland
“ Work Based Learner(s)” means (for the purposes of these Terms and Conditions), a learner who attends the University for off-the-job learning as part of their employment with their employer.
The Contract
2.1 When you accept an offer of a place at the University, your contract with the University takes effect.
By accepting the offer you agree to be bound by these Terms and Conditions, the University’s regulations, policies and procedures (including the Student Handbook), the relevant Tuition Fee and Refund Policy, any additional agreement required as part of your programme and other documents referred to in this document.
2.2 You will be required to confirm your acceptance of these Terms and Conditions, and the Tuition Fee and Refund Policy, upon enrolment with the University.
2.3 The University may need to amend these Terms and Conditions and other documents from time to time.
Changes will normally be effective from the start of a new academic year and will be drawn to your attention through the annual enrolment process.
Where it is necessary to make changes during the course of the academic year (for example to comply with the law) any changes will be communicated with you.
Personal Information
3.1 The University of Sunderland is registered as a data controller with the Office of the Information Commissioner, details of this registration can be found on the ICO website .
Any personal data collected and or processed by the University is held in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018 and the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
3.2 The University collects and holds personal data relating to its students for a variety of purposes, for further details on the way in which we process your personal data, including the legal basis for doing so, please see Privacy notice - Student .
3.3 The University may process special category personal data about you, such as details about your mental or physical health and/or disability, information concerning ethnicity, domicile, religious or political opinions and/or sexuality.
In limited circumstances, the University may also disclose this special category of personal data to third parties, where there is a legitimate need or obligation, during or after your study.
3.4 The University undertakes to maintain student data in secure conditions and to process and disclose data only within the terms of its Student Privacy Notice.
You may also be provided with additional privacy notices/information if relevant to your programme or activities that you undertake.
3.5 The University’s Data Protection Officer should be contacted if students have any specific questions.
Please note that the University is reliant on students for much of the data it holds: as such it is your responsibility to help the University keep records up to date by notifying any alterations to student addresses, personal details, or course enrolments.
3.6 The University complies with the requirements of the Data Protection Act 2018 and from the 25th May 2018 the requirements of GDPR.
See guidance on Data Protection issues in the Data Protection Policy .
3.7 Under the GDPR individuals have a number of rights in relation to how the University handles their personal information, details on the rights you have can be found in the Student Privacy Notice.
To discuss any objections, concerns, to obtain a copy of the current personal information held about you or to exercise any other rights that you have under GDPR, please contact the University’s Data Protection Officer at the following address:
The Data Protection Officer, University of Sunderland, Room 202, St Peters Gate, Charles Street, Sunderland SR6 0AN
Or send an email to: dataprotection@sunderland.ac.uk
4.
Tuition Fees
4.1 You must pay the tuition fees for your module or programme in accordance with the University’s Tuition Fee and Refund policy, by the due date.
4.2 The tuition fee that you agree to pay is shown in your offer letter.
You also agree to pay any Additional Charges which may be due to the University in respect of your studies that are not covered by the tuition fees.
The payment of these fees and charges is a condition of enrolment.
4.3 If a third party is paying some or all of your tuition fees on your behalf (such as the Student Loan Company, an employer or sponsor), you remain responsible for all outstanding fees.
4.4 If you do not pay the tuition fees by the relevant due date, the University reserves the right to withdraw you from the programme, remove access to online materials, prevent you from re-enrolling in your studies, withhold an award or delay graduation.
The University may also take all reasonable steps, including legal action, to recover outstanding fees from you.
5.
Your Cancellation Rights, Right to Withdraw and Right to Suspend Studies
5.1 You have a statutory right to cancel your contract with the University under the Consumer Contracts Regulations 2013.
To exercise your cancellation rights, you must notify the University of your intention to cancel the contract within 14 days, starting on the day after your contract with the University takes effect.
5.2 Where you have cancelled your contract with the University within 14 days in accordance with this clause 5, you will be entitled to a full refund of fees paid to that point in accordance with the University’s Tuition Fee and Refund Policy.
5.3 In the event that you wish to suspend your studies or withdraw from your programme, your withdrawal will be counted as taking place on the day of receipt of the appropriate form for leave of absence or notification of intent to withdraw through the University’s online withdrawal system.
For information as to how this may affect your financial liability to the University, you should refer to the University’s Tuition Fee and Refund Policy relevant to your studies.
You can also find information about suspension of studies and leave of absence in the Student Handbook.
5.4 The University’s policies in relation to withdrawal from studies are in addition to your statutory cancellation rights.
6.
The University’s Right to Make Changes
6.1 The University will take all reasonable steps to provide the Educational Services in the manner set out in the relevant course directory, prospectus/online prospectus, and other documents however the University does not guarantee their provision.
The Educational Services, programmes, facilities and other arrangements for students described in each Directory or Prospectus (including online) are regularly reviewed and are subject to change from time to time.
6.2 In order to continue to provide high-quality Educational Services, the University may make variations to the contents, or methods of delivery of programmes and modules,  discontinue, merge or combine programmes and modules in response to professional, statutory and/or regulatory body requirements, feedback from students and/or external examiners, the need to enhance student performance and achieve, changes to the theory in an area of research and/or changes to the practices around the subject of delivery.
In the event of any changes to programmes or modules, or the discontinuation of any programme, the University will use reasonable endeavours to help affected students switch to a suitable alternative programme or alternative provider in accordance with the University’s process for modifications to programmes and modules .
7.
The University’s Obligations
7.1 The University will provide you with Education Services (including teaching, learning, and where applicable, research opportunities and assessments) and related activities which the University considers appropriate for your programme.
For students who are enrolled on a Distance Learning programme, the University will provide you with access to online resources and materials.
7.2 The University will provide you with the module tuition, module materials and module assessments (as applicable) as described in the module description in the online prospectus.
7.3 In the event that you undertake a mandatory or optional placement as part of your programme, you will be supplied with further information by the University applicable to your placement.
The University’s Regulations will continue to apply whilst you are on placement.
The University will not be responsible for any acts or omissions of a third-party placement provider.
8.
Your Obligations
8.1 You must abide by the University’s policies and procedures contained within this contract and the Student Handbook (including but not limited to the Policy on Student Conduct and Academic Regulations).
8.2 You must pay your tuition fees in accordance with clause 10 of this Contract.
8.3 You must provide the University with full and accurate information as requested in relation to your application, admission and enrolment on the module or programme.
You must inform the University promptly if there are any changes to your academic or personal information.
8.4 You will need to participate fully in your programme.
Some programmes may require a specific level of attendance and you must comply with these requirements.
9.
Criminal Convictions
9.1 Students will be required to disclose any relevant, unspent, criminal convictions (as defined in and in accordance with the University’s Admissions Policy and Admissions Code of Practice for Applicants declaring a criminal conviction) when requested to do so by the University.
Disclosure will be required from you when you accept your offer of a place on a programme on a campus-based course and must be completed before enrolment.
It should be noted that criminal convictions may not necessarily be a bar to study, but must nevertheless be notified to the University.
9.2 If you disclose a relevant, unspent, criminal conviction to the University, you are required to provide the University with additional information, as reasonably requested, in order for the University to carry out a suitable assessment of risk.
Upon receiving a relevant criminal convictions disclosure, the University reserves the right to (a) cancel/withdraw the offer, (b) impose conditions or restrictions on you whilst you are at University to the extent that the University considers necessary to manage any risks, or (c) to terminate any contract with you where you have already enrolled on a programme, where the risks cannot be appropriately managed.
9.3 Students on campus-based courses are required to notify the University if they are charged or found guilty of any relevant, unspent, criminal offence after their initial declaration, whether this is prior to enrolment or during their time at University.
Failure to disclose a relevant, unspent, criminal conviction may result in disciplinary action by the University and the University reserves the right to terminate the contract.
9.4 Where appropriate, registration on a programme may be conditional upon compliance with any requirements arising from legislation or regulations made from time to time in relation to the protection of children and vulnerable adults.
For these programmes, you will be required to disclose information about your criminal convictions and to complete a disclosure application to the Disclosure and Barring Service which may include the disclosure of spent convictions.
You may also be required to submit a Medical Clearance form.
9.5 Students should be aware that a criminal conviction may not necessarily be a bar to studying at the University, however, the University cannot guarantee that a criminal conviction would not be a barrier to entry in your chosen career or profession.
It is the students’ responsibility to familiarise themselves with and to ensure compliance with the requirements of any professional body which they wish to join either before or after graduation.
Students should also be aware that a change in their circumstances whilst studying (e.g.
acquiring criminal convictions or certain physical or mental ailments or illnesses) may affect their continued compliance and in such cases should be notified both to the relevant professional body and to the University for clarification.
10.
Immigration
10.1 International students are responsible for complying with the terms of their visa (including any specific attendance monitoring requirements), and with immigration legislation as in force at the relevant time more generally.
International students may be required to provide evidence to the University that they are complying with these terms.
10.2 International students studying at the University on a Tier 4 visa are required as a condition of their contract to maintain English language skills at least at the level required on entry to the University for the duration of their programme.
The University reserves the right to re-test students at any point during their programme.
10.3 If you do not meet any visa or immigration requirements, or if you fail to provide the necessary information within a reasonable timeframe, the University may terminate this contract and may withdraw you from your course.
11.
Online account and IT
11.1 The University may provide you with an online account to access the University’s e-learning platform.
Online Distance Learning Students will be provided with an online account for this purpose.
11.2 You must only use your online account and the e-learning platform for lawful purposes and in a way that does not infringe the rights of, restrict or inhibit anyone else’s use and enjoyment of the e-learning platform.
You must not submit or share any defamatory or illegal material of any nature.
11.3 You must comply with the University’s policies in relation to the use of IT, including the IT Acceptable Use Policy .
11.4 The University does not guarantee that the use of the e-learning platform will be compatible with all hardware and software, or that access to the e-learning platform will be uninterrupted or error or virus free.
11.5 You are responsible for ensuring that you have adequate virus protection on any device that you use to access the e-learning platform and you must take appropriate steps to regularly check for viruses.
11.6 The University will not be liable for any damage caused by your use of the University’s IT equipment, or connection of your own device(s) to the University’s IT network.
12.
Intellectual property
12.1 All copyright, trade marks, design rights, patents and other intellectual property rights (registered or unregistered) and all content located on the e-learning platform shall remain vested in the University or its partners.
13.
Liability
13.1 The University will not be in breach of this contract or otherwise liable to students in any manner whatsoever, for any failure or delay in its ability to provide the Educational Services due to an event beyond the reasonable control of the University.
Such an event, for the purpose of this contract, means any cause preventing the University from providing the Educational Services arising from or is attributable to acts, events, omissions or accidents beyond the reasonable control of the University include, without limitation, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disputes, protests, war or national emergency, an act of terrorism, riot, civil commotion, malicious damage, compliance with any law or government order, rule, regulation or direction, breakdown of plant or machinery, utility failure, fire, explosion, an Act of God, flood, storm, epidemic or other national disaster or default or delays of suppliers or sub-contractors.
The University will use all reasonable endeavours to minimise the relevant disruption to those services.
13.2 The University does not exclude or limit its liability for:
13.2.1 death or personal injury caused by the University’s negligence (or that of its employees, agents or sub-contractors);
13.2.2 fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation; and
13.2.3 any other act or omission, liability for which cannot be limited or excluded by law.
13.3 Subject to clause 13.2 above, if the University is in breach of any of its obligations under or in connection with this contract whether arising in contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise; the University’s liability shall not exceed the total tuition fees paid by the student at the time of the breach.
13.4 The University cannot accept responsibility for and expressly excludes liability for damage to or loss of Students’ property whilst on University premises.
13.5 You will not be liable to the University for any failure or delay in performing your obligations under this contract which is due to any cause beyond your reasonable control.
14.
Bursaries and other payment liability
14.1 The University agrees to pay over to you, the Student, all bursaries, and payments that are awarded and due to you whilst you are on your programme of study.
14.2 These payments will be made into a UK bank account of your choice.
It is your responsibility to enter your bank details onto your e:Vision account so that these payments can then be made to you.
14.3 If you fail to enter your bank details to enable the payment to be made to you before your programme end date (or your date of leaving your programme of study if earlier), these bursaries and payments will be withdrawn and will no longer be due.
15.
Termination of the Contract by the University
15.1 In addition to the University’s other rights to terminate under the terms of this contract, the University may terminate (temporarily or permanently) its contract with you with immediate effect by notifying you in writing, in the following circumstances:
15.1.1 you fail to pay any outstanding tuition fees;
15.1.2 you do not enrol on your course;
15.1.3 for academic reasons under the Academic Regulations (found in the Student Handbook);
15.1.4 you are withdrawn from the University for any reason;
15.1.5 you commit a material breach or repeated breaches of this contract;
15.1.6 in accordance with the Policy on Student Conduct (found in the Student Handbook);
15.1.7 if the University discovers you have withheld or provided material inaccurate academic or personal information.
16.
Education Act 1994
16.1 Under the Education Act 1994 any student has the right not to be a member of a Students’ Union and not to be unfairly disadvantaged with regard to the provision of services, or otherwise, by reason of having exercised that right.
At the University of Sunderland all students, members and non-members alike, have in general the right of access to services provided by the University and the University of Sunderland Students’ Union (SU).
However, there are some rights which are not extended to non-members, and these include the following:
(i) the right to participate in SU and NUS (National Union of Students) elections and decision-making processes, including those of clubs and societies,
(ii) the right of SU and NUS representation,
(iii) the right of access to SU bars, and certain SU commercial activities, except as guests of members,
(iv) the right to commercial advantages negotiated for the benefit of SU and NUS members.
17.
General
17.1 If you have a concern or complaint about the University, you should use the Student Complaints Procedure (which can be found as part of the Student Handbook).
17.2 These Terms and Conditions and all other policies, rules and regulations referred to within it are governed by English Law.
17.3 This contract (forming of the Terms and Conditions and other documents referred to) is personal as between you and the University.
No third parties shall have any rights to enforce any of the terms.
17.4 If any provision of this contract is or becomes illegal, invalid, or inapplicable, then all other parts of the contract shall remain valid and in force.
17.5 If either you or the University fails to enforce or delays in enforcing its contractual rights as against the other; this shall not be treated as a waiver of its right to later enforce the contract.
University of Sunderland terms and conditions updated April 2022 (.pdf)
Published: 13 March 2023

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/privacy-and-cookies:
By accessing and using this website you are deemed to agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy.
Please only submit information to us through this site if you agree we may collect it, use it, and retain it in accordance with this policy.
Please note this site uses cookies to improve your user experience.
By using this site you agree to these cookies being used.
To find out more see our Cookies policy .
About this Privacy Policy
This is the University of Sunderland’s Privacy Policy.
The University of Sunderland (the ‘University’) is committed to preserving your privacy.
This policy tells you who we are, how we collect personal information about you through this website, what we intend to use that information for, with whom we intend to share it, how we keep it secure, and  how we transfer your information outside the European Economic Area (EEA).
Who we are
More information can be found in About Us and in Legal Status.
Cookies and AdWords
We may collect information about your computer, including where available your IP address, operating system and browser type, for system administration and to maintain, report on and aggregate information.
This data informs us about your browsing actions and patterns.
It is used to inform improvements to the website and for system administration.
We may collect anonymous information through the use of various technologies including the use of ‘cookies’.
Our website uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of the website.
A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that is stored on your hard drive and allows a website to remember who you are.
The cookies set may contain information about you, your computer, your use of our website and your general internet usage.
To learn more about how we use cookies, read our Cookies policy .
The University’s website uses the Google AdWords remarketing service to advertise on third party websites (including Google) to previous visitors to our site.
This could mean that we advertise to previous visitors who haven’t completed a task on our site, for example using the contact form to make an enquiry.
This could be in the form of an advertisement on the Google search results page or a site in the Google Display Network.
Third-party vendors, including Google, use cookies to serve adverts based on someone’s past visits to the University of Sunderland’s websites.
Any data collected will be used in accordance with our own privacy policy and Google’s privacy policy .
Other information we collect
In certain sections of the website you may be asked to provide some limited personal information.
This could include: your name, contact details and email address, job title, demographic information such as postcode, preferences and interests, responses to surveys which we ask you to complete for research purposes, completion of online forms or applications, bank details and/or credit card details in order to receive goods or services or any other information you post or send us.
In order to enable the provision of certain services, the University may store this information manually or electronically.
By supplying this information you are consenting to the University holding and using this information for the purposes for which it was provided.
The information provided will be kept for as long as is necessary to fulfil that purpose.
How the information collected is used
Personal information provided to the University by you will only be used for the purposes stated when the information is requested.
We may use your information to:
If you are a student, your personal information may be used for other purposes please see the Data Protection section of the Terms and Conditions .
If you are one of our suppliers, we will use information we hold on you to manage the contract between us and to improve our services.
The information we hold may include information about your performance in providing services to us.
Personal information will not be sold to third parties, or provided to direct marketing companies or other such organisations without your permission.
Personal information collected and/or processed by the University is held in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR and Data Protection Act 2018.
When we share your information
We may share your information with other organisations including but not limited to:
We may disclose your personal information to third parties who supply services to us, or who process information on our behalf, but will always take steps to ensure their security measures are adequate to protect your information.
Authorised personnel within the University (and that of our affiliates) will be able to access the information you provide to us.
Transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure.
Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, and will use strict procedures and security features to prevent unauthorised access, we cannot guarantee the security of data transmitted to the website.
Any transmission is at your own risk.
Security
Where we have given you (or where you have chosen) a password which enables you to access various areas of the website, you are responsible for keeping your password confidential and safe.
We are committed to ensuring that your information is secure.
In order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect online.
Transfers outside the EEA
Personal data within the EEA (EU countries and Norway, Lichtenstein and Iceland) is protected under data protection legislation.
Outside of the EEA personal data may not be afforded the same level of protection.
Information which you provide us will ordinarily be stored on our secure servers which are based in the UK.
However, we may need to transfer your personal information to countries which do not provide the same level of protection as the UK.
By supplying your personal information by email or through this website you are consenting to this transfer.
If you do not wish your personal information to a country outside of the EEA do not provide it by email or through this website.
Changes to our privacy policy
We may amend this policy to reflect changes taking place within the University, website or to data protection law, freedom of information law or other legislation.
We therefore ask that you revisit this policy on a regular basis to ensure you are familiar with its terms.
Third party websites
You should be aware that if you follow a link from this site to another site, this policy will no longer apply, except in the case of Google AdWords as discussed in clause 3 above.
The University is not responsible or liable for how other sites collect and use your information.
Please check the individual third party websites privacy policies before you submit personal information to those websites.
Access to information and your rights
The GDPR and Data Protection Act 2018 gives you the right to access information held about you.
For further information about this right and how to exercise it, please contact our Data Protection Officer at:
The Data Protection Officer
University of Sunderland 4 th Floor Edinburgh Building Chester Road Sunderland SR1 3SD
You have the legal right to see a copy of the information that we hold about you.
You have the right to rectify any errors in information we hold about you, and to change or correct any details you have already given us.
Please inform us about changes to your details so that we may keep our records accurate and up to date.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/corporate-legal/freedom-of-information:
The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000 gives individuals or organisations the right to request information held by the University...
To request information held by the University that does not seem to be already available...
Find out how you can request to see the information we hold about you as an individual.
You have a right under Section 50 of the FOI Act to request an internal review...
Two types of exemptions apply to information requested under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
Find out how to apply for an independent review of the outcome of a Freedom of Information request.
View our Access and Participation Plan to find out how we aim to improve equality of opportunity from underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/help/corporate-legal/publication-scheme/modern-slavery-statement:
In accordance with section 54 (1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the University of Sunderland makes the following statement regarding the steps it has taken in the financial year 2019/20 to ensure that no modern slavery or human trafficking is taking place in any part of the organisation or its supply chain.
Modern slavery in all its forms is a crime and the University of Sunderland is committed to understanding potential modern slavery and human trafficking risks and to improving the systems and controls in place to combat them.
The University of Sunderland is a Higher Education Corporation established by Order of the Secretary of State under Section 121 of the Education Reform Act 1988, the statutory purpose of the University is "to provide higher education and further education and to carry out research, and to publish the results of the research or any other material arising out of or connected with it in such a manner as the corporation shall think fit".
The University, and all other Higher Education Corporations created by the 1988 Act, were granted the status of 'Exempt Charities'.
The Trustees of the exempt charity, the University of Sunderland, are the Members of the Board of Governors, which includes the Vice­ Chancellor along with staff and student representatives.
They have oversight of the management of the University, and ensure that in achieving its charitable obligations the University establishes and performs its strategic aims and objectives in ways which are consistent with the Office for Students' guidance on the general principles of public benefit.
The University operates Campuses in Sunderland, London and in Hong Kong and also has a number of subsidiaries (companies all of which are wholly owned or effectively controlled by the University of Sunderland).
The University does not tolerate modern slavery or human trafficking in any part of its business or its supply chain.
As part of our work to identify and mitigate risk we:
The ETI Base Code requires that:
Employment is freely chosen 2.
Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected 3.
Working conditions are safe and hygienic 4.
Child labour shall not be used 5.
Living wages are paid 6.
Working hours are not excessive 7.
No discrimination is practised 8.
Regular employment is provided 9.
No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed.
In furtherance of the enforceable obligation, the University may, acting by itself or through its audit agents, assess compliance with the implementation of these anti-slavery measures.
Where the obligation is breached, the University may consider terminating its relationship with individuals or organisations if it reasonably believes that they are linked to modern slavery or human trafficking activities.
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our international supply chain, training has been and continues to be undertaken by relevant staff.
Following a review of the effectiveness of the steps we have taken this year to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain, we intend to take the following additional steps:
Sir David Bell KCB Vice Chancellor & Chief Executive University of Sunderland
Published: 12 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/international/other-ways-to-study-with-us:
We work with partners to deliver our degree courses all over the world, including Malaysia, Hong Kong, Oman, Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago, Kenya, Uzbekistan and Vietnam.
Our University was the first institution in the UK to receive a licence to operate in Vietnam.
We have strong partnerships with a number of colleges and universities around the world.
These partnerships mean that you don’t have to come to the UK to study a University of Sunderland qualification.
This is called 'transnational education', and the partner institutions are known as 'study centres'.
In most instances, a college or university in another country will deliver the course to you, but the course content will have been entirely designed and developed by us and you will gain a University of Sunderland qualification.
Some partnerships involve a course being developed by the partner college or university and then approved by us.
This will also lead to a University of Sunderland qualification.
All students who learn with us via transnational education receive a degree parchment from the University of Sunderland.
To study with us in your country, through one of the University of Sunderland's study centres, you must apply directly through the relevant study centre.
BSc (Hons) Business Intelligence and Data Analytics
BSc (Hons) Network Systems Engineering
BA (Hons) Computer Systems Engineering Top Up
BSc (Hons) Information and Communication Technology
Joint franchise
BSc (Hons) Mobile and Web Technologies
MSc Project Management
BA (Hons) Applied Business Computing Top Up
BEng (Hons) Electronic and Electrical Engineering Top Up
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering Top Up
BA (Hons) Business and Management - PT
BA (Hons) Animation and Games Art
PG Cert Leadership and Change
PG Dip in Cybersecurity
Professional Doctorate Module in Business
Professional Doctorate Tourism, Hospitality and Events
Postgraduate Research
MSc Tourism and Hospitality
BA (Hons) Social Media Management (SMM)
BA (Hons) Film Production
BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management 3+0
BA (Hons) Media, Culture and Communication 3+0
MBA Dual Award (Global and General)
BA (Hons) Business and Management 3+0
Beng (Hons) Electronic and Electrical Engineering 3+0
Beng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering 3+0
BEng (Hons) Engineering: Electronic and Electrical Dual Award
BEng (Hons) Engineering: Mechanical Dual Award
N/A
BA (Hons) Mass Communication Top Up
Business and HRM 3+0
Business and Marketing Management 3+0
Business and Management 3+0
Electronic and Electrical Engineering 3+0
Mechanical Engineering 3+0
International Tourism and Hospitality Management 3+0
BA (Hons) Business and Human Resources Management 3+0
BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance 3+0
Beng (Hons) Automotive Engineering 3+0
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management 3+0
MSc Engineering Management
BSc (Hons) Computer Systems Engineering 3+0
Full MBA
BSc Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics 3+0
BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management (Stage 3) - PT
BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management (Stage 3) - FT
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management - PT
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management - FT
BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management - PT
BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management - FT
Master of Business Administration - PT
Master of Business Administration - FT
BA (Hons) Accounting and Financial Management Top-Up
BA (Hons) Business Management Stage 3
BA (Hons) Fashion Design and Promotion 3+0
BA (Hons) Graphic Design 3+0
BA (Hons) Illustration and Design 3+0
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Top Up
BA (Hons) Business and Human Resources Top Up
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering 3+0
BA (Hons) Graphic Design Top Up
BSc (Hons) Nursing Top Up
BA (Hons) Fashion Product and Promotion 3+0
MBA (Finance, HRM, Marketing)
Foundation Certificate in Pharmaceutical Sciences (Non-integrated)
Foundation Certificate in Biosciences (Non-integrated)
BA (Hons) Banking and Finance Top Up
BA (Hons) Accounting and Financial Management Top Up
BA (Hons) Business Management Top UpBA
MBA Business Administration (Top Up)
Master of Business Administration - 60
BA (Hons) Business Management Top Up
A number of our part-time courses are available for you to study via distance learning.
Distance learning typically involves accessing study materials online, and communicating with academic and administrative staff via email and phone.
You may be required to attend occasional study sessions on campus, but in most cases, you will study independently at a pace agreed with your academic tutor.
View our Distance Learning section for more information and to find the courses that are available to study in this way.
We also have a range of online degrees available as part of our distance learning offer.
Their flexible teaching model means they can be studied at any time and from anywhere to fit around work and life commitments, with no need to ever visit campus.
What’s more, you will be allocated a dedicated student success coordinator to support you from enrolment through to graduation.
View our online degrees for more information.
The University of Sunderland in London is located near Canary Wharf, London's world-renowned financial district.
Our large teaching base boasts state-of-the-art facilities to ensure you receive a first-class education.
As well as professionally focused courses in business, finance, and tourism, we also offer health-related courses, including nursing, and health and social care.
Find out more about the University of Sunderland in London , including course fees and contact information.
The University of Sunderland in Hong Kong offers you a unique chance to study in the vibrant neighbourhood of Wan Chai.
Since 2004, the University of Sunderland in Hong Kong (formally named RDI) has been delivering transnational undergraduate and postgraduate academic courses in Hong Kong, preparing our graduates with the relevant employment skills and globally recognised qualifications employers demand.
Find out more about the University of Sunderland in Hong Kong , including course fees and contact information.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
Join an institution with over 100 years of research expertise.
Challenge yourself and your subject to improve society.
Make an original contribution to knowledge.
Completing a research degree is a significant achievement, one of the greatest academic challenges.
Our research degrees provide the ideal opportunity for you to make an original contribution to knowledge.
Each degree is unique, built around the topic of your choice.
You’ll be supported by a Research Student Manager (RSM) who will be by your side from registration to graduation.
Your supervisory team – including your Director of Studies (lead supervisor) and at least one co-supervisor – will play a vital role in advising and supporting you, helping you to think about fresh possibilities.
You’ll benefit from their varied expertise in the area of your research as they guide you through your journey as a researcher.
Take your education to the next level.
Choose the areas you want to study, and which questions you want to research.
Take the initiative while we support you with advice, guidance and facilities.
Refine your own agenda and do what you find interesting every day.
Develop mastery of research methods that are appropriate to your chosen field.
Discover things that no-one else has ever discovered.
Take the fastest route to a PhD.
Convert your previous research outputs into a qualification which will increase your employability and open up new opportunities.
Progress your academic career and add credibility in applications for research funding.
Take your academic career to the highest level.
Make a very significant and sustained contribution to your subject.
Gain an elite qualification that will mark you out as an outstanding contributor to your field.
Explore the link between issues in the professional practice with relevant academic theory, and apply this to the critical investigation of problems, the creation of solutions, and the introduction of change within the workplace.
Develop pragmatic solutions by gaining a wider perspective on issues within the professional role, and draw theory from different academic disciplines to synthesize diverse ideas.
Explore links in professional practice with relevant academic theory, and apply this to the critical investigation of problems, the creation of solutions and the introduction of change within the workplace.
Develop pragmatic solutions by gaining a wider perspective to issues within the professional role, and draw theory from different academic disciplines to synthesize diverse ideas.
For over 100 years, researchers at the University have been challenging themselves and their subjects to improve society – from the early days of pharmacy to the support for heavy industry at its height, to today's new sciences and advanced artificial technologies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/public-allied-health:
Learn crucial skills to begin your dream career.
Participate in clinical placements and simulations to boost your employability.
Improve people’s health and wellbeing, and discover how to change lives.
Welcome to Allied Health Professions and Public Health.
If you’re interested in a career that focuses on making a difference, our courses will allow you to gain a nationally and internationally qualified degree to begin your dream profession.
We offer a range of undergraduate Allied Health Professions and Public Health degrees:
We also offer several postgraduate courses including MSc Public Health , if you wish to further your education with us.
You can also apply to start your Paramedic Sciences course in April .
For more information, find out what an occupational therapist does and what a Physiotherapist does .
Read more about our Occupational Therapy Accelerated course and why you should study Paramedic Science .
Your chosen career will be at the forefront of the teaching you receive at the University of Sunderland.
We prioritise your development of the crucial skills necessary for your future career, through our practical sessions, high-quality education delivery from our experienced programme team, and utilising the exceptional facilities available.
As part of your course, you will access our excellent links and network with local NHS trusts and other providers to support your professional development through a mandatory placement.
We offer regular opportunities to collaborate in inter-professional learning with other courses, including healthcare courses such as nursing and midwifery, pharmacy, and psychology, as well as other courses such as law, social work, and professional policing.
Working alongside other courses allows you to develop and learn in a range of settings that reflect your chosen career from the moment you begin studying with us.
There has never been a better time to study healthcare at Sunderland, as major investment will see the University spend over £250 million in the next 10 years and transform our facilities.
Exciting developments will include a new library, student centre, International Business School, Sunderland Health Innovation Zone, and sports ground.
At Sunderland, we offer a unique relationship with our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement Group who participate in a variety of activities to support your learning, including volunteering in simulation days so you can practice your skills in a safe environment.
While working within the field of Allied Health Professions and Public Health can be challenging, it is a highly rewarding profession with opportunities for growth and progression.
We’re proud to have been shortlisted for University of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards 2024
All our undergraduate courses are accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC)
Gain a nationally and internationally-recognised professional qualification
Our BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy course has a 100% positivity score for how free students feel to express their ideas, opinions and beliefs.
(National Student Survey 2025)
Sunderland is the only university in the UK to offer a 2-year accelerated BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy route.
Upon successful completion of your course, you will be eligible to apply for registrations with the HCPC
Physiotherapy is recognised as a healthcare profession where human movement and function are viewed as central components of individual health, wellbeing and quality of life.
With our BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy course, you will have access to excellent links with local NHS Hospital Trusts and other placement providers where you will complete a minimum of 1000 hours’ practice placement.
On successful completion of the course you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) Register for Physiotherapists.
This course provides an alternative path to Physiotherapy for students wishing to specialise in musculoskeletal rehabilitation especially related to sport, exercise and fitness.
In addition to specialised modules in therapy theory and practice, you will study modules in sports science (Biomechanics, Physiology etc) to gain BASRaT accreditation.
In addition, the opportunity exists to complete vocational qualifications leading to Personal Trainer and Massage Therapist awards.
This is a two-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy course.
Pick and choose the modules you want to study to build a tailor-made course.
Available at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels, this course allows you to gain a qualification that closely matches your particular needs.
Health Professions education involves the design of learning which meet the needs of a diverse range of learners with different needs and learning preferences.
This PGCE Health Professions course is aimed at academic staff and can lead to roles in higher education institutions or clinical teaching roles in the public and private sector.
On completion of the course, you'll have developed your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and will be able to offer student-centred teaching and learning experiences.
This Master of Education (Health Professions Education) course enables you to study a wide range of topics relevant to educating tomorrow’s health professionals.
The course provides initial teacher preparation for staff new to education, with modules covering both teaching, learning, assessment and curriculum design.
On completion of this course, you can expect to find employment at higher education institutions, or clinical teaching roles within the public and private sector (subject to meeting the role specification requirements).
Take the initiative while we support you with advice, guidance and facilities.
Sign up to receive emails about your subject area.
I am currently serving or have previously served in the armed forces, including reserves.
Keep me up to date relating to my interest in the University of Sunderland via:
Email
Telephone
Text message/SMS
You may unsubscribe at any time.
Oops!
You've not opted in to receiving other useful information about the University of Sunderland.
Using Your Personal Information The University of Sunderland is collecting this data in order for you to receive information on your chosen subject(s).
Your information will be stored securely in our Customer Relationship Management system which is provided by a 3rd party and used only for the administration and provision of this information.
Should you choose to opt in to further communications we will also use your information to facilitate other useful marketing information based on your preferences.
If you’re interested in learning more about occupational therapy, including what the role involves and potential salary, what an occupational therapist does on a daily basis, and how you can become an occupational therapist, this article can give you more information.
Interested in becoming a Paramedic?
Studying BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science and Out of Hospital Care at the University of Sunderland will allow you to network through our placements with local providers, experience simulation days and more.
Explore: Health Sciences and Wellbeing
Virtual Open Day
Information for parents
Patient, Carer and Public Involvement
New to General Practice Fellowship Programme

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design:
Join our community of artists, designers, creators and makers.
Explore, express and experiment with the issues you feel passionate about through your work.
Apply your ideas to the real-world and become a creative professional.
Be part of a dynamic, creative community, pushing the boundaries of artistic imagination and innovation.
Choose from a range of Art and Design degree courses .
We offer BAs in Fine Art, Glass and Ceramics, Photography, Animation, Fashion, Graphic Design and Illustration.
At postgraduate level, you can study MA Visual Practice, MA Design, or join our large cohort of PhD students.
Learn from knowledgeable and skilled academics and technical staff, who will support you from day one.
Engage with industry leaders through guest lectures, exhibitions, and conferences.
Photography by Benta Maina, BA (Hons) Photography, Video and Digital Imaging
Take advantage of our creative spaces, from generous-sized studios to well-equipped workshops.
Work with industry-standard equipment and learn both traditional and digital skills.
Develop your own personal style, culminating in a showcase of your work in our degree shows.
Work on real-life creative projects through the Sunderland Creatives Agency, or apply for funded internships to gain key employability experience.
Build an impressive portfolio of work that will show employers your artistic and practical skills, and start your journey as a creative professional.
Painting by Cristina Madalina Bratu, BA (Hons) Fine Art
Our Film Production and Photography courses are 5th in the UK
We were finalists in the Green Gown Awards 2024 for integrating sustainability into our curriculum and emphasising the importance of creativity and sustainable thinking in the creative industries
Our Fine Art courses are 12th in the UK
Explore your creativity and master traditional and digital making skills, using a range of materials, including glass and ceramics.
Utilise outstanding facilities, participate in competitions, public exhibitions and live commissions.
Become an artist, designer, maker and work in diverse art, design and making contexts.
Fine Art will give you the skills and knowledge to join the ever-growing creative industries.
You’ll have the freedom to explore your creative interests across a broad range of Fine Art practice, including painting, printmaking, digital photography, film, sound, drawing, sculpture and performance.
Work towards live outcomes, building your confidence as an artist to promote yourself and your art, understanding the impact you can have as an artist in society.
BA (Hons) Photography, Video and Digital Imaging provides you with the wide-ranging skills needed for success in today’s photographic industries and beyond.
Animation and Games Art allows you to explore and develop both traditional and new techniques, learning key digital skills in 2D and 3D, as well as the core principles of character-led animation.
You'll have the opportunity to work on industry-led briefs and entries for festivals and competitions, and the creative freedom and flexibility to develop your specific areas of interest, gaining transferable skills crucial for employability in the animation, games and VFX industries.
Fashion Design and Promotion is a course that gives you skills and crucial understanding in both fashion design and fashion promotion and marketing.
Develop concepts; explore materials; design full fashion collections; develop an understanding of the manufacturing processes and gain the skills you’ll need to construct garments.
Consider fashion markets; analyse future trends; develop brands; gain an understanding of visual merchandising; create promotional materials; and plan and manage events.
Join our Graphic Design course and gain access to fantastic facilities and teaching that focuses on employability and cutting-edge professional skills.
We combine teaching with professional practice in fields including graphic design, branding, illustration, exhibition and experience design, editorial, print, web and mobile interface, packaging, 3D (digital/physical/Augmented Reality (AR)/Virtual Reality (VR)), animation and motion graphics.
Illustration and Design will cultivate your talent, creative ideas and passion about drawing.
We blend traditional techniques with computer technology, such as virtual reality and 3D design, and encourage you to push the boundaries of illustration.
You’ll develop your own style, pursuing a specialist study of illustration during your second and final year, before entering the inspiring world of professional illustration.
Study a wide range of modules to suit your interests, including Fine Art Media Skills, History of Art and Fine Art Contemporary Practice which will culminate with an exhibition in your final year giving you the opportunity to showcase your work to a public audience.
Work alongside like-minded students within a creative and supportive environment, and gain work experience through projects and commissions managed by our Photography department.
Do you want to make animation and games industries?
Use digital software such as Maya, Toon Boom and After Effects as part of this degree.
Focus on a wide range of options to suit your interests such as design and manufacture, photography, styling, branding and magazine design.
Graduate work-ready and pursue a career in a range of industries including, design, brand development, fashion publishing, production, Public Relations and fashion retail.
Study a wide range of modules with flexible options to suit your interests, such as Visual Communication, Motion Graphics and Branding, Position and Identity.
Acquire valuable skills relevant to a career in Design, and work alongside like-minded students within a creative and supportive environment.
If so, our Illustration and Design degree is for you.
Flourish in a creative environment, working alongside like-minded students and showcase your work to a public audience in your final year Degree Show.
Benefit from Sunderland’s expert teaching without leaving your home region.
You’ll study a wide range of modules with flexible options to suit your interests, including Visual Communication, Motion Graphics and Branding.
Acquire valuable skills relevant to a career in Design, while working toward a BA (Hons) degree.
Benefit from Sunderland's teaching of Advertising and Design on a course based in Malaysia and Greece.
Develop your own style and engage your personal creativity.
It has core practice-based modules that include developing advertising campaigns, computer skills, creative portfolios, branding and identity.
MA Visual Practice will enable you to develop your personal visual practice and follow your own interests and aspirations.
Follow a chosen visual practice discipline, from Contemporary Fine Art, Photography, Glass, or Ceramics.
Re-evaluate, experiment and test new ideas, while collaborating with peers to extend your contemporary practice.
Grow your practice in a creatively stimulating environment and establish yourself as a creative professional.
MA Design is built around your personal design interests and aspirations, allowing you to push the boundaries of creativity.
You’ll choose a pathway to study, such as advertising, animation, design thinking, innovation and entrepreneurship, fashion design and promotion, graphic communication, graphic design, illustration, interactive media, motion graphics and typographic design.
You’ll graduate with an impressive portfolio of creative designs that will appeal to prospective employers.
Gain a UK degree without leaving your country.
Pursue your passion for a particular area of design, at an advanced level and with professional support.
Push the boundaries of creativity, within a framework of academic rigour and contextual research.
Are you an artist looking to develop and sustain your creative practice while growing your professional profile?
Introducing the MA Visual Practice – an innovative course that aims to encourage original ideas, creativity, and imaginative thinking, in a relaxed and supportive artistic community.
Do you have a passion for drawing, creating characters, and storytelling?
Are you curious about how to create an animation?
Do you dream of working on the next big animated movie or game?
If you’ve said yes to any of those questions, you may be interested in studying BA (Hons) Animation and Games Art.
Do you love fashion?
Do you dream of becoming the next top fashion designer, stylist or fashion journalist?
We offer two distinctive courses that will provide you with the key skills you’ll need for a successful career in fashion: BA (Hons) Fashion Design and Promotion, and BA (Hons) Fashion Journalism.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management:
Join a community of business experts, with internationally recognised, career-focused courses that are linked to industry at every stage.
Graduate with experience that's invaluable to employers.
We've carefully crafted a suite of internationally recognised business courses to prepare you for your career, with specialisms in key areas such as marketing, finance, accounting and human resource management.
We'll give you the resources you need to stand out from the competition.
From cutting-edge topics such as sustainability to placements and careers advice, you'll receive a complete business education.
When you study Business and Management you'll be based in a vibrant and busy hub based at the Reg Vardy Centre at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
You'll be surrounded by a beautiful riverside location, but within easy reach of Sunderland city centre.
You'll have access to some impressive facilities including the Marketing Hub , on-campus library, a vast range of IT resources, and a host of collaborative and individual work spaces to help with your learning.
We know that the reason you come here is to get somewhere, so we strive to make sure you graduate as a highly-employable candidate.
Many of our courses are industry accredited and employers are embedded into every module.
You can add practical work-based experience with local, national, and international employers to your CV before you've even graduated, which will set you apart in the job market.
Workplace visits, real-life scenarios and business activities let you learn the theory and put it into practice in a work environment.
Some courses also offer the option to add a year's placement to really embed yourself into the world of work.
You'll be taught by experts and practitioners in their field, so you'll benefit from their first-hand knowledge and experience which will help prepare you for a successful career.
We've been shortlisted for Business School of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards 2024
Our Business and Management courses are 1st in the north-east for teaching satisfaction
Our Business, Management and Marketing courses are 1st in the north-east for teaching quality
National accreditation
Cutting-edge topics
£250 million investment
Professional accreditations
Guest speaker programme
Gain an extra qualification as part of your degree
Paid placement opportunities
Sustainability as a core theme
Do you know that you want to pursue an undergraduate business degree, but you’re not sure which pathway is right for you?
We’re breaking down some of the specialist business management courses to help you choose the right pathway for you.
Read more about about our undergraduate Business and Management pathways
To give you the best possible foundations, our marketing courses have been designed to teach you the skills needed to get started in the sector.
As part of this, we've applied for and secured accreditation for all our marketing courses by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
Read more about why a CIM accreditation matters
One of the best things about studying for a degree in a business or management subject is that your career and employment options are incredibly open.
Over the three or four years of study, you’ll develop personal and professional skills that employers in a wide range of sectors will be seeking.
Read more about about what you can do with a business or management degree
Combining industry-led experience with cutting-edge teaching, this innovative, employability-focused course enables you to develop strong skills and knowledge in all areas of business.
Gain a solid business education and develop essential skills in financial management.
Focus on the opportunities and challenges confronting businesses with specific focus on cash accounting, longevity, and the relationship between good financial management and business success.
Effective human resource management is essential to the success of any organisation.
Gain sought-after skills and knowledge for a rewarding career in human resource management.
Gain exemptions from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
Enhance your expertise with specialist modules.
Complete your studies at our highly-regarded business school.
Graduate with a full honours degree and a new range of practical and theoretical knowledge.
Top-up your HND, or similar, to a full honours degree in accounting and financial management.
Turn your HND into a full honours degree in banking and finance.
Build on your existing skills.
Study in the area that you’re passionate about.
Become a complete candidate with support from our Student Academic Advisors.
Receive a comprehensive education on management in the industry.
Gain insight into a range of different sectors of business.
Choose to specialise your studies into specific areas.
Graduate with extensive business know-how.
Become an integral part of a business.
Gain accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
Gain vital experience and earn on a year-long placement.
Graduate with a variety of contacts and a vast number of transferable and relevant skills.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
Become a key player in company finance.
Study a wide range of modules with an array of transferable business skills.
Complete employability modules to put yourself ahead of the crowd.
Graduate as an employable, versatile candidate with a wide range of skills, theoretical knowledge and experience.
Become an influential marketer.
Gain accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Build connections and earn a paid salary through a year-long work placement.
Graduate as a hugely attractive candidate with an array of transferable skills and extensive experience.
Study a UK degree, accreditated by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) without leaving your country.
Benefit from Sunderland Business School’s expertise in banking and finance without leaving your home country.
Cover theories and their limitations, important concepts, and how to respond to practical issues within banking and finance.
Benefit from Sunderland’s excellence in the teaching of accounting and finance.
Enhance your knowledge and study topics such as the introduction to financial accounting, business management, and international financial reporting, while working towards a respected BA (Hons) degree.
Benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of business and management without leaving your own country.
Learn the fundamental principles to make an effective contribution to various sectors and industries.
Topics you’ll study include understanding the business environment and applying professional practice.
Study business and management delivered by a respected UK university in your own country.
Develop a firm grounding in the essentials of management, marketing, accounting, and the world economy.
On completion, look forward to a rewarding career in a range of sectors.
This course will give you a firm grounding in the essentials of business, with a particular focus on skills and knowledge that foster success in marketing.
Do you want to study business and financial management delivered by a respected UK university?
Develop a firm understanding of business, with a particular focus on skills in accounting and financial reporting.
Cover topics such as business finance, employability skills, and strategic management accounting.
Take advantage of Sunderland’s financial expertise without leaving your home country.
Cover key areas of accounting and financial management within a business context.
Enhance your expertise in decision-making about financial resources.
Benefit from Sunderland's expertise in business without leaving your home region.
Study business at degree level even if you don’t have the right qualifications.
Study a huge range of business topics.
Benefit from our ‘world-leading’ research.
Graduate as a true business all-rounder.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of business principles while equipping yourself with specialised skills in event planning and management.
A dynamic short course designed for aspiring and current leaders seeking to align strategic leadership capabilities with the pressing demands of sustainability and digital transformation.
Accelerate your promotion to well-paid positions of leadership.
Develop a deep strategic understanding of the different functions within organisations.
Learn how to implement approaches that deliver outstanding results.
Management and leadership knowledge gained throughout the course will support your future managerial, functional, and sector specific career aspirations.
The MBA (Sustainability) route allows you to specialise in sustainable business development.
As one of the biggest challenges facing organisations in the 21st century, future industry leaders need a comprehensive understanding of how sustainability impacts business.
This is a two-year taught MBA route which enables you undertake a postgraduate certificate to develop sought-after specialist skills in digital marketing and analytics or skills in people management and learning and development.
Gain expert insight into the financial sector.
Complete a relevant finance dissertation.
This course is aimed at human resource specialists.
Gain insight from guest speakers.
Develop your understanding of functioning within organisations and speed up your route to promotion.
Carve out a career in marketing management.
Go on visits to organisations to gain real-life experience and insights.
Pick up insider knowledge from industry guest speakers.
Complete a valuable dissertation project that can be presented to potential employers.
MA Marketing (Professional Practice) is a taught course which incorporates a 12-month work placement facilitated by the University and is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Gain insight in an influential sector.
Collaborate with your classmates through Peer Action Learning Sets.
Graduate with the skills and knowledge to solve real issues within the financial sector.
Study a course highly relevant to the workplace.
Take a step towards professional membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Explore a variety of different topics through our broad-ranging modules.
Graduate with practical and theoretical knowledge.
This 15-month extended course is aimed at students who don't meet the entry criteria for a master's degree.
On completion of the first term, you'll be able transfer to a number of our postgraduate courses, including MA Marketing, MSc Human Resource Management, MA International Management, and MSc Finance and Management.
Study a distinctive course which meets the demands for analytics knowledge and skills as well as increased use of social media by employers/recruiters.
Enhance your employability in digital marketing-related business and management careers.
The course is designed for graduates from a business related discipline who wishes to specialise in digital marketing, graduates from other degree areas such as Computing who wish to pursue careers as digital marketers and business data analysts, managers who have already gained marketing and computing business experience and seek to further their careers as highly qualified digital marketers.
They are tailored to those wanting more flexible learning pathways or wishing to pursue part-time study.
The MBA equips you for strategic, cross-cultural and international roles in organisations where decision-making involves evaluation and analysis of challenging and fast-changing environments and the exploration of opportunities to implement change at a strategic level.
This course has been designed to help you develop your skills and become a better leader.
You will learn how to recognise and apply the theories related to effective management, leadership, and change management.
Study one of the most sought-after postgraduate degrees in the field of management and leadership.
This course combines academic rigour with vocational relevance as you build on your previous managerial experience.
Gain a highly-regarded postgraduate qualification from a British university in your own country.
Fast track your way to highly-paid roles in the financial sector.
Make your mark in the marketing world with this MBA based at our partner study centres in Malaysia and Uzbekistan.
Take a specialist module relevant to you.
Learn to deliver outstanding results.
Boost your chances of promotion.
For human resource specialists who want to study in their own country.
Develop your understanding of functioning within organisations.
Speed up your route to promotion.
Study a University of Sunderland qualification in your own country.
Learn the secrets of effective hospitality management in your own country.
Gain an understanding of the different functions within organisations.
Graduate with the expertise and insight to begin a successful career in hospitality management.
Study in your own country.
Develop your strategic knowledge, functional competence, and problem-solving ability.
An MBA is a respected qualification that will progress you to well-paid positions of leadership.
Do you hold a diploma in management studies or equivalent qualification and want to top up to a full MBA?
This course combines academic rigour with vocational relevance, as you build on your previous managerial experience.
If you’re looking to fast track your career in business leadership, a Master of Business Administration (MBA) postgraduate qualification could be just what you need.
Our MBAs allow you to develop a specialism in marketing, finance, cybersecurity, supply chains, hospitality, and much more.
Many businesses trying to steer a clear path through current world affairs will feel ‘stressed’ in this environment.
It's unprecedented in modern times to be hit by so many seismic events.
Professor Lawrence Bellamy takes a closer look at business strategy throughout uncertain times.
Do you want to pursue a business degree, but you’re not sure which pathway is right for you?
Business degrees are hugely varied, so we’re breaking down some of the specialist business management courses to help you choose the right pathway for you.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing:
Join a community engaged in this exciting and global industry, using cutting-edge facilities, software and technologies.
Be inspired and supported by teaching staff who are also practitioners in their field – real-life software developers, coders, and programmers with expertise in cybersecurity, game development, user experience, data science, and AI.
Study modules that blend theoretical learning with practical experiences, enabling you to develop the skills you’ll need in industry after your graduation.
Access state-of-the-art technical facilities and specialist labs, including a Game Development Lab, Networks and Cybersecurity Lab, CyberZone, a 3D Interactive Igloo, Data Science visualisation lab, and an Internet of Things enabled space.
Use these facilities to learn new skills and develop your knowledge and expertise in the innovative areas of interconnected technology and data visualisation.
Choose from an exciting selection of Computer Science courses, suitable for all levels of experience and interest.
At undergraduate level we offer BScs in Computer Science , Game Development and Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics , which are all ideal for you to gain a fundamental understanding of computer science, while also getting opportunities to specialise in an area of interest.
At postgraduate level and beyond you'll have the opportunity to hone your interests further, in areas such as Cybersecurity , and Data Science .
Our computer games and animation courses are 2nd in the UK
Our Computer Science courses are 11th in the UK for teaching quality
Outstanding facilities
We are an academic partner with EC-Council
We've carefully crafted applied course content to instil real-world industry skills.
Annual Digital Showcase
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Computer Science course, with an integrated foundation year.
The broadest of our computing courses.
Learn the fundamentals of how computers work the way they do, as well as models in software development, system programming and programming languages.
Previous graduates have gone on to work for British Airways and Sage, so how far will you go in this highly rewarding industry?
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics course, with an integrated foundation year.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Game Development course, with an integrated foundation year.
Thrive in one of the fastest growing regions for games software development, perfect your craft using Sony's Dev Kit software, and learn how to develop simple point and shoot mini-games all the way up to exhilarating 3D games for major consoles.
Connect with some of the biggest names in the industry though a one-year placement and leave with a dynamic portfolio.
Top-up your HND or Foundation Degree in a computer networking discipline to a BSc (Hons) with our one-year course.
You'll still have access to our state-of-the-art Cisco networking equipment and a Microsoft Visual Studio, placing you at the cutting edge of industry which will allow you to make an impact in your chosen field straight away.
Do you want to study Computer Systems Engineering delivered by a respected UK university?
Benefit from Sunderland’s expertise without leaving your home country.
Enhance your skills, build a range of software systems, and work with industry-standard software.
We’ll encourage you to develop your skills and support you while you work towards earning a BSc Honours degree.
Unlock information using ethical hacking and learn the fundamentals of programming with modules in C#, Java and SQL.
Benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of computing from your home country.
Like all courses taught at the University of Sunderland, this one-year course develops a blend of theory and practice, allowing you to boost your career by ‘topping-up’ your existing knowledge and skills while earning a BSc Honours degree.
This course aims to produce highly motivated, technically competent individuals who can effectively utilise technologies and tools used in mobile and web technologies.
The course is informed by human-computer interaction (HCI) and user experience design (UXD).
You will use a range of industry standard software such as Swift, Android Studio and Cisco OS.
You will graduate as a competent programmer and/or developer opening up a wide range of employment opportunities in a rapidly evolving and competitive computing industry.
This course will produce highly-motivated, technically-competent individuals who can effectively utilise technologies and tools used in business intelligence and data analytics.
You will develop expertise in a range of industry-standard software such as Oracle, Python (Anaconda Navigator), RStudio and Weka.
You will graduate as a technically-competent data and information systems analyst with experience of up-to-date methodologies, opening up a wide range of employment opportunities.
This course will equip you with the knowledge and abilities to embark on a career in a networking environment, working in large enterprises and for service providers.
You will be provided with a solid grounding in advanced routing, telecommunications and cyber security, so that you can contribute to the efficient operation and management of complex networks and network services.
Gain the knowledge and abilities to embark on a career as a confident IT manager who has wide experience not only in hardware and in software development but also in business processes, decision making, ethics and professionalism, systems admin, forensic auditing and service management.
You will be able to forge a career managing the deployment of ICT in business and industry to enable and drive business strategy for competitive advantage.
This MSc in Computing will enhance your knowledge in topics such as software development, networks, database systems and web development.
Develop the necessary skills to undertake a masters-level project in designing and implementing IT systems, without previous experience, and graduate with the skills to make a significant contribution to IT research and team-based IT projects.
On the Applied Data Science MSc course, you'll study subjects including the fundamentals of data science, data mining, machine learning, data analytics and visualisation, and security of big data.
In addition, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a placement and put your skills into practice.
This MSc in Applied Computing will enhance your knowledge in topics such as software development, networks, database systems and web development.
The course represents an excellent opportunity for you to develop cyber skills to apply to your current role as a means of progressing your career.
This Masters course is a direct response to the increasing demand for highly effective IT managers.
Our aim is to equip you with the knowledge to become a valued professional who combines advanced technical expertise with strong managerial skills.
Study in an outstanding high-tech computing environment without leaving your home country.
This Cybersecurity course will provide you with the technical and practical skills to make a difference to society by providing safe and secure digital environments, allowing the public, business and industry, and the economy to function safely.
Our MSc in Business Technology Management course combines modules from our existing courses in Cybersecurity and Data Science – you will explore both of these cutting-edge topics from a technology management perspective.
The course is designed to meet the current needs of employers giving you the knowledge and skills to deal with organisational data management requirements.
Ethical hackers are authorised to use hacking techniques to detect and fix security vulnerabilities in an organisation’s infrastructure.
By using the same techniques that criminals use with malicious intent to exploit an organisation's systems and networks, ethical hackers can help prevent infiltration from attackers and improve an organisation’s overall cybersecurity.
Artificial Intelligence, or AI, is a catch-all term that refers to computer software imitating human cognition with the aim of performing – and learning from – complex tasks.
Recent news stories about AI have largely been negative, but AI can be a force for good if we use it responsibly.
Technology has transformed how we live our lives, and graduates with degrees in computer science are in substantially high demand.
So, we’re delving into everything you need to know about studying for a degree in computer science.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/crime-policing-investigation:
Welcome to Crime, Policing, and Investigation at the University of Sunderland.
Whether you're looking to study for your first undergraduate degree or are already established within your field, here, you'll find everything you need to know about our fantastic, career-focused courses and beyond.
Enrol on one of our crime, policing, or investigation courses and graduate with the essential skills and expertise you need to kickstart your career in this exciting and varied line of work.
The range of courses we offer will cater to a number of backgrounds – whether you’re joining us as an undergraduate straight out of school or college, or you’re already in work and looking to develop your training even further.
Several of our courses have been specially designed in collaboration with serving representatives in the police and criminal justice sector, drawing on their diverse experience to equip you with all that you’ll need for your professional development.
Read our useful guide to find out which course is right for you .
You’ll be taught and supported by knowledgeable academics who are experts in their field, many of whom come from a well-established background in policing and investigation.
As well as this, the University has strong links with numerous organisations, enabling you to enhance your employability via placements and volunteering.
Our Crime, Policing, and Investigation courses are part of Social Sciences, based at Wearside View at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
The building is newly renovated and features a wealth of bright and spacious teaching spaces, plus a social area with its own balcony.
St Peter's Campus offers a superb riverside location and is walkable from both Sunderland city centre and the coast.
You can take advantage of some excellent facilities including the library, plenty of IT resources, and various on-campus eateries.
Our Criminology courses are 11th in the UK for teaching quality
Our BSc (Hons) Professional Policing course has a 100% positivity score for how well the course develops the knowledge and skills needed for the future
We were the first university in the country to offer BSc (Hons) Professional Policing as an accelerated two-year degree
Major investment will see the University spend over £250 million in the next 10 years and transform our facilities with a particular focus on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's
Drawing on our knowledge and expertise in police investigation and our well established reputation within the fields of Criminology and Law , we've launched the pre-join degree in Professional Policing.
The policing degree follows the National Policing Curriculum and provides you with the skills and knowledge to become a police officer.
Learn about crime, criminal behaviour and punishment, visit criminal courts and prisons and take advantage of volunteering opportunities and an optional placement in a relevant organisation.
This unique course provides a degree in Applied Investigation for investigators who can demonstrate competence at PIP Level 2 or equivalent.
Our BSc (Hons) Policing Studies (Top-Up) has been developed in conjunction with feedback from regional police units and colleges.
This course will examine the most important issues facing modern policing and will provide a professional and academic basis for policing practice.
Our curriculum complements the national agenda for professionalising the police force and allows students to gain a BSc qualification in one year of study.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Criminology course, with an integrated foundation year.
This course specialises in leadership and management in any criminal justice setting, including the police, probation, prisons, youth offending sectors, or security related and policing roles.
You will engage with the latest criminological research and trends.
Learning is embedded throughout the course with a theoretical study of criminological and penological theory, as well as criminal justice policy and practice.
Our research practice is based in criminal justice, so gives our students a social science orientation – distinct from MBAs in leadership and management.
Develop and enhance your professional practice in leading and managing investigations.
Study leadership and management theories in the context of work-based investigative practice.
On completion, you’ll have a highly relevant masters qualification which will help you take a leading role in today’s evolving investigative processes.
I'm Emma Spooner and I'm the Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Applied Investigation course.
I would love to share a little more about me and hopefully show you that you can get that degree whilst working full-time!
We offer a wide range of crime, policing, and investigation courses at Sunderland, but what kind of career opportunities are available to those graduating with one of these degrees?
Find out more here.
Explore our diverse range of crime, policing, and investigation courses available.
Find out more about our degrees and who they're suitable for with a helpful guide to our courses.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering:
Learn the skills needed to thrive in a rapidly changing sector from academics with real-world experience.
Graduate and follow in the footsteps of recent graduates at some of the most prestigious companies in the country.
The engineering sector is exciting, rewarding, and ever-evolving.
Gaining a high-quality degree that helps you stand out from the crowd is essential.
All of our courses are aligned to prepare you to work in the industry and succeed in the career you want.
Some of our courses are also accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology .
This accreditation will not only make you more employable, but if you take one of our accredited courses, you'll be able to fast-track the process to becoming a Chartered Engineer.
You can be sure of a top-class learning environment in which we will equip you with the skills and ideas needed to make an impact in the industry right away.
We offer an exciting range of courses suitable for all levels of experience and interest.
At undergraduate level, we have:
Each of these courses are also available with an Integrated Foundation Year .
At postgraduate study and beyond, you'll have the opportunity to specialise your interests further with courses such as:
We host a number of state-of-the-art engineering facilities on campus at the David Goldman Technology Centre.
You can benefit from upgraded electronic engineering, mechanical engineering, and product development laboratories.
These facilities allow us to further develop our strong industry links and help you to reach your full potential in becoming a technically skilled, problem-solving engineer, capable of making both social and industrial impact.
As well as dedicated engineering laboratories, you will also be able to take advantage of our 3D interactive igloo, specialist engineering software including CAD, and our library, equipped with dedicated engineering resources.
Take advantage of top-class teaching and state-of-the-art facilities.
Learn about the fundamentals of engineering and cover a diverse range of disciplines.
This is a four-year version of the BEng (Hons) Sustainable Design Engineering course, with an integrated foundation year.
Develop the skills and knowledge needed to become a professional engineer.
Take advantage of top-class teaching, world-leading research and state-of-the-art facilities from a course that’s been ranked in the top five in the UK.
Widen your understanding of how electronics work, and grow your knowledge of electronic principles.
Broaden your experiences by learning about other engineering disciplines, and put your skills to the test by managing and performing a project in your final year.
Benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of Engineering from your home country.
Like all courses taught at the University of Sunderland, this one-year course develops a blend of theory and practice, allowing you to boost your career by ‘topping-up’ your existing knowledge and skills while earning a BEng Honours degree.
This course allows you to top-up your existing qualification to a full honours degree in one year, and will equip you with the skills you need to be an accomplished Automotive Engineer.
You will cover topics such as vehicle dynamics, electrical systems, design and materials along with skills and knowledge required by professional engineers.
This course allows you to top-up your existing qualification to a full honours degree in one year.
You'll cover topics such as mechanics, design and materials and gain skills and knowledge required by professional engineers.
Do you have a technical mind and want to study Engineering delivered by a respected UK university?
Enhance your skills, look beyond aesthetics and delve deeper into the configurations and inner workings of vehicles to become a successful Automotive Engineer.
Do you dream of working as a Mechanical Engineer?
Take advantage of Sunderland’s engineering expertise and study a course from your own country that focuses on the real-world needs of employers.
Learn about the fundamentals of engineering and cover a broad range of topics such as applied mechanics, engineering mathematics, manufacturing processes and project management.
Do you want to work with high-level technology in a range of sectors?
This course will widen your understanding of how electronics work and grow your knowledge of electronic principles.
Study topics such as electrical principles, manufacturing materials and electrical power.
Put your skills to the test by managing and performing a project in your final year.
Study at one of our partner institutions.
Discover modern technologies that address society's needs and support future industrial developments.
Apply your knowledge to enhance the efficiency and productivity of manufacturing.
Develop your management skills, preparing for a successful career in engineering.
Build on existing knowledge to improve your design techniques.
Understand how to successfully implement sustainable techniques and strategies in the workplace.
Develop skills that are important to employers, future generations, and the planet.
This MSc Applied Project Management course is designed to teach people from any discipline or degree background, unlike other project management courses.
Whether you are from a business, arts or technical background this course is for you.
In addition, you'll be provided with the opportunity to undertake a professional placement (subject to availability) and put your skills into practice, enhancing your employability.
Study MSc Engineering Management from your home country.
Broaden your knowledge and experience in engineering, technology and management.
You will study topics such as project management and control, engineering operations management and advanced maintenance practice which will allow you to operate effectively in a wide range of engineering management roles.
Do you want to become a project management professional in one of the fastest growing professions in the world?
Study Sunderland’s reputable course without leaving your home region.
This MSc will equip you with both intellectual and practical skills to ensure you develop a well-rounded set of project and general management skills.
Modules you will study include: International Project Management, Managing People and Project Leadership and Project Risk and Quality Management.
Want a rewarding and well-paid career as an Engineer but don’t have a first degree in engineering?
Develop strong managerial, operational and leaderships skills, necessary to become an expert in areas such as advanced maintenance, operations management and quality management.
This course is based at our quality-assured partners around the world.
Engineers are revolutionising the way we live.
From leading the war against pollution and making cleaner, faster cars, to saving lives by developing the latest medical equipment, and bringing the latest ships and aircraft to life.
An MSc in Electronic Engineering will help you to develop into a critical, questioning problem solver who can identify problems and apply technology to improve and optimise industrial processes – skills industry needs.
This course covers a range of topics at the cutting edge of mechanical engineering using the latest digital tools.
Topics include core aspects of mechanical engineering along with their application in design and manufacturing.
Engineering is a highly rewarding, complex, fast-paced industry.
Engineers across all disciplines are in demand, but competition for the most prestigious jobs and internships is fiercely competitive.
We look at our top tips to help you get the most out of your engineering course.
You’re interested in studying engineering at the University of Sunderland, but maybe you’re still a little unsure about what you’ll be learning when you get here.
Read on to find out what to expect from your first year as an engineering student at Sunderland.
Launched in 2023, our exciting BEng Sustainable Design Engineering course was developed to ensure that we train the next cohort of engineers across a wide range of practices.
Read on to find out more about what this course covers and what makes it special.
Explore: Engineering
Engineering case studies
The Chronicle: University of Sunderland producing job-ready engineering workforce

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/english:
Explore and develop your own creative talent.
Read into texts and beyond them.
Write convincingly and creatively.
Learn from professional and creative writers and academics who will connect you to creative institutions and networks both regionally and nationally.
Graduate with a degree packed with transferable skills that employers know and respect.
Find out more…
Join us at an Open Day
English continues to be a popular, much loved and highly respected subject.
Our English: Creative and Professional Writing BA enables you to understand writing as a profession while exploring and developing your own creative talent.
This BA (Hons) degree in English: Creative and Professional Writing enables you to understand writing as a profession while exploring and developing your own creative talent.
You'll be supported by published writers and senior academics to hone your writing and apply your knowledge to literary, technical and professional work.
You'll acquire skills in pitching, presenting and networking and will also learn about a range of industries where writers are in high demand.
This is a four-year version of our exciting new BA (Hons) English: Creative and Professional Writing course, with an integrated foundation year.
English is a wide-ranging and innovative degree.
You’ll explore the best of English Language, Creative Writing and English Literature, gaining understanding of their interrelation and the value of studying each area in depth at degree level.
As the course progresses you will specialise in your chosen field.
This course is delivered at one of our partner Study Centres around the world.
You'll be based at our riverside campus, the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, which is perfectly placed to provide you with a wide range of top-class facilities.
The campus has St Peter's Library, meaning you’re never far away from all the resources you could ever need while you’re studying.
St Peter's Library has a huge range of texts and journals and also provides access to a wealth of electronic resources, including online journals and databases.
You'll be encouraged to grow as an independent learner, taking full advantage of multimedia technologies and access to excellent computing facilities.
View courses
If you’re thinking about university, it’s likely that one of the key things on your list is attending Open Days.
But what should you look out for on the day?
We caught up with Student Ambassador, Maisie Aveston, who tells us how to get the most out of an Open Day.
English is a subject that can be applied to a huge number of industries and careers, as well as a route into graduate training schemes.
Our English degrees aim to equip you with the skills, knowledge and contacts you’ll need for a successful career in the creative industries and beyond.
Spectral Visions provides a diverse platform for students, enabling its members to work with professional writers and renowned academics, and together with Spectral Visions Press, trains students to become accomplished professional publishers and editors.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/health-clinical-sciences:
Build on your knowledge of biology and chemistry; learn how the human body and different organ systems function, and the causes and progress of disease.
Work in innovative facilities, including simulated environments and industry-standard equipment and laboratories.
Apply your on-campus studies to relevant work experience opportunities and placements where relevant.
Our Anatomy and Physiology courses are in the top 20 in the UK and our Biomedical Science courses are in the top 40 in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2024).
We offer the following on-campus courses:
You may be able to switch from a degree in Biomedical Science to Healthcare Science, specialising in one of the following areas: Blood Sciences, Cellular Sciences, Genetic Sciences, and Infection Sciences, subject to placement availability and interview.
Benefit from teaching by academic staff who are experts in their field with a wide range of experience, including international research, clinical practice in the NHS, manufacture laboratories, and other professional backgrounds.
Receive a 'hands on' approach to learning in our state-of-the-art innovative bioscience laboratories, interactive immersive suite, human anatomy resource, and hospital simulation wards.
Develop your skills in environments which simulate the real-life workplaces you’ll experience out on placement and in your future career.
Approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) and the National School of Healthcare Sciences
If you specialise in a Healthcare Science, you'll follow a series of clinical placements, giving you the chance to work on real-life cases in a real working environment
We have over 100 years of expertise in teaching science
Learn how the human body functions and what happens when disease affects it.
BSc (Hons) Audiology will prepare you for a role as a healthcare science practitioner in NHS audiology.
Study the underpinning knowledge required while developing clinical skills in the assessment, management, and therapeutic rehabilitation of patients with hearing and associated disorders.
Learn the fundamentals of professional practice, physiology, and cardiovascular and respiratory science.
Develop these skills further, learning the pathophysiology of disease to the cardiac and respiratory system, alongside current methods of testing for the presence of disease.
By the end of the course you'll be adept at performing and reporting a range of clinical tests.
Improve your current health care qualification.
Study a course relevant to a wide range of health care roles.
Widen your practical experience and theoretical understanding, as we prepare you for roles in health and community settings.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events:
Travel to exciting locations, learn from inspiring guest speakers and engage with a vastly experienced teaching team.
Studying a degree in hospitality, events, aviation or tourism will enable you to gain unrivalled insights into a thriving industry that's one of the key players in international commerce.
You'll be based in the Reg Vardy Centre at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, a fantastic location within the vicinity of both the city centre and idyllic seafront.
You'll have access to technical resources, dozens of work areas and a library that contains over 31,000 books related to business, economics, management, human resources, marketing, strategy and tourism.
Here we'll help you to stand out from the crowd with specialised modules that will enable you to study the areas you're most passionate about and work placement opportunities to help you gain invaluable experience.
To ensure that you're able to put theory into practice, your learning won't just be based in Sunderland.
You'll have the opportunity to go on several field trips every year and we have visited famous international cities such as Prague, Barcelona and New York in the past, as well as interesting local spots such as Kielder Water and York.
Field trips are an incredible opportunity to get advice and develop your skills alongside industry experts working in some of the world’s most popular destinations.
Find out more about field trips and study abroad opportunities.
We have a diverse selection of courses for you to discover and choose your specialism.
At undergraduate level, we have the newly developed Esports Event Management course, which is perfect for you if you're interested in Esports culture and the production of Esports events.
Similarly, we also offer Events Management, which will allow you to begin developing your event production skills from day one.
Within tourism and aviation, you'll also be able to choose from International Tourism and Hospitality Management and Tourism and Aviation Management depending on your interests.
At postgraduate level, you'll have the opportunity to build on the knowledge you've gained on your undergraduate degree with cutting-edge courses such as Sustainable Tourism , and the MSc Tourism suite with includes Tourism and Events , Tourism and Hospitality and Tourism and Aviation .
Our Hospitality, leisure, recreation and tourism courses are 1st in the north-east for teaching quality and student experience
Ranked amongst the world's best universities for this subject
1st in the north-east
Our Hospitality, Event Management and Tourism courses are 12th in the UK
Our Hospitality, leisure, recreation and tourism courses are in the top 30 in the UK
National, local, and international study abroad and field trip opportunities
Immerse yourself in esports culture on this degree and be at the forefront of a rapidly growing industry.
Gain the contextual knowledge and skills to flourish and work in dynamic teams within the world of esports and live streaming.
Prepare for a career in the tourism and aviation industry, a global business that connects people and trade throughout the world.
Study topics like global tourism, marketing, aviation, safety and security and airline and airport commercial operations.
Top-up your Higher National Diploma or travel, tourism, or hospitality degree to a full degree with this one year course.
This is a four-year version of BA (Hons) Tourism and Aviation Management.
Do you dream of working in the tourism and hospitality industry?
Take advantage of Sunderland’s expertise and study a reputable course without leaving your home country.
Cover topics such as international tourism, hospitality management and cultural tourism, festivals, and events.
On completion, join many of our graduates who work in managerial roles within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Benefit from Sunderland’s excellence in the teaching of tourism without leaving your home country.
Learn the fundamentals of international hospitality management as you cover a broad range of topics such as strategic planning for tourism and leisure, e-tourism, and leadership and management for the hospitality industry.
Identify different theoretical approaches and consider what's best practice.
Fast-track your career in a growing sector set to be worth £257 billion by 2025.
Develop a critical understanding of the global complexity and range of impacts of the tourism, hospitality and events industries.
Create an independent piece of work and apply the skills and knowledge you’ve acquired on a course that's a member of the Institute of Hospitality’s Education Membership Scheme.
An MSc is an internationally respected qualification – many of our students from Tourism, Hospitality and Events postgraduate courses have gone on to progress into senior roles within the industry.
This master's course takes a social science approach to tourism and aviation and combines it with practical skills for the workplace.
You'll complete theoretical modules Tourism Concepts and Issues and Research Methods for the Service Sector, and in the final phase of the course, you'll complete a major project personal to your interests and career aspirations.
Do you live in Singapore?
Do you want to study Tourism and Hospitality delivered by a respected UK university?
This course will give you a head start in the tourism and hospitality sectors.
Master's qualifications are highly sought after by employers and this MSc will equip you with the skills and knowledge to progress rapidly.
Potential employers include hotel and resort management, attractions and museums, and destination marketing agencies.
Develop a critical understanding of the global complexity and range of impacts of the tourism, hospitality, aviation and events industry.
We’ve recently added to our portfolio of degrees by introducing BSc Esports Event Management.
This is a highly specialised and exciting course that is suitable for students who want to be at the forefront of an industry growing more and more every day.
Read more about about our new BSc (Hons) Esports Event Management
We’ve expanded our Hospitality, Events, Aviation, and Tourism offering by introducing a new postgraduate course in Sustainable Tourism.
This cutting-edge course will cover a range of topics around the sustainability of regions, cultures, and attractions.
Read more about about our MSc Sustainable Tourism
Interested in getting into the Tourism and Hospitality industry?
Studying at the University of Sunderland in the School of Hospitality, Events, Aviation and Tourism will allow you to see the world, learn from key industry figures and get the real-life experience you need, along with much more.
Read more about about everything you need to know about studying Tourism, Hospitality, Aviation, and Events at Sunderland
Standing out from the crowd is crucial when launching your career in tourism, hospitality or events.
At Sunderland, there are a whole host of schemes and initiatives you can get involved in to boost your career prospects.
Read advice from recent graduates.
Interested in getting into the tourism and hospitality industry?
Studying at the University of Sunderland  will allow you to see the world, learn from key industry figures and get the real-life experience you need, along with much more.
We’ve added the BSc (Hons) Esports Event Management to our portfolio of Hospitality, Events, Aviation and Tourism degrees.
This is a highly specialised and exciting course that's suitable for students who want to be at the forefront of an industry growing more and more every day.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr:
Bring your stories to life in the mediaHUB , our multimedia publishing and broadcasting newsroom, alongside BBC Newcastle Journalists.
Work on our award-winning digital publications: Fashion North , SportsByte and Spark Sunderland .
Be inspired by our lecturers and their strong industry contacts, broaden your horizons on inspiring field trips and graduate with a professional portfolio to impress prospective employers.
Our Journalism courses are 4th in the UK and 1st in the north-east (Guardian University Guide, 2024).
They're designed for you to hone your practical skills alongside plenty of networking opportunities and chances to build contacts with regional and national industry experts.
Our journalism courses are accredited by the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ), a gold standard for courses that turn out highly skilled, highly motivated and highly employable trainee journalists.
You could be the next graduate to land a job with leading employers, from the BBC, The Guardian, and Stylist magazine, to various roles in PR and marketing companies.
Launch your career as a sports journalist for top-end multimedia sports platforms such as Sky Sports News, BBC Sport or national newspapers, or join the media teams of Premier League clubs, Formula One teams or golf's DP World Tour.
Study a practical journalism degree, led by professional journalists who have worked for some of the UK’s biggest titles.
Become a journalist from the day you arrive and work for our award-winning radio station and websites, covering everything from news, to sport, fashion, arts and entertainment.
Develop essential fashion journalism skills such as catwalk reporting, styling, street style photography, podcasting, social media stories, beauty and video journalism.
Learn from industry experts, publishing opportunities and fashion trips.
Earn your National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) Diploma in Journalism, the industry-recognised qualification, at the only NCTJ-accredited fashion journalism course in the country.
Create engaging content from video to graphics.
Manage social media channels and develop strategies and campaigns for brands, using analytics to grow and engage your audience.
Build skills as a content creator and excel in a career in social media.
The North East has a burgeoning sports scene, with a Premier League football team on our doorstep.
Develop core skills necessary for any sports journalist, from writing match reports and features to previews and sports news stories.
Grasp the opportunity to work on our sports platform, SportsByte, covering live sports events across the North East.
Explore different types of journalism, from its history to present day, allowing you to specialise in a specific area of interest.
Choose to focus on Magazine Writing, Sports Writing, Investigative Journalism, or Entertainments and Games Journalism.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Fashion Journalism course, with an integrated foundation year.
This innovative course is the UK’s only Fashion Journalism degree to have NCTJ accreditation.
Write features, style photo-shoots, create fashion spreads and produce your own magazine to impress prospective employers.
Master social media platforms to engage online audiences.
Develop cutting edge and highly transferable skills to meet a growing need for Social Media Managers and build your own following.
Become an expert in existing social media platforms with the ability to create, curate and share content, and analyse and engage online audiences.
Learn media law, with the opportunity to gain an additional qualification recognised by leading employers nationally.
Do you want to tell people the ‘what’ and ‘why’ of an organisation, charity, rock band, sports club or fashion brand?
Then this PR course is for you.
Develop a thorough knowledge of journalism, business and marketing, social networking and communication theory.
Gain a competitive edge in a fast-moving industry with a course accredited by the Chartered Institute of Public Relations.
From the former Head of Features at the Daily Mirror and the former Deputy Editor of Grazia magazine to award-winning sports journalists, you’ll perfect your craft alongside experienced academics who have years of industry expertise.
You’ll have the opportunity to engage with regional and national high-profile journalists such as Kevin Maguire, Associate Editor at the Daily Mirror and Visiting Professor in Journalism at the University, and ITV News Correspondent Alastair Stewart.
Both regularly visit the University along with a host of experienced journalists to give insight into the industry via masterclasses and lectures.
Working journalists are also on hand daily in the Journalism Newsroom to offer expert advice on projects and portfolios.
At Sunderland, we offer some of the most comprehensive Journalism courses in the UK accredited by the leading industry body the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ).
Our department has a great reputation for giving you access to state-of-the-art facilities.
You'll be based at The David Puttnam Media Centre, which houses our fantastic mediaHUB, and has the added benefit of a great location, close to the city centre and within miles of stunning coastline.
Our journalism suites are equipped with Apple Macs and the latest design and video-editing software such as Final Cut Pro, Burli, Newscutter and ENPS, and our Broadcast Journalism Newsroom features 17 workstations plus an Avid Utility server, Sky feed, and two 40” plasma screens.
You’ll explore all areas of journalism and learn the key skills to make it as a journalist, from Shorthand, Media Ethics, News and Online Writing, Public Affairs Reporting, Multi-Platform and Video Journalism, to Writing and Researching.
You'll have the opportunity to showcase your skills in your final portfolio of work, in addition to working for newspapers, magazines, radio stations, TV and PR companies to connect you to the industry through placements.
Our courses all prepare you for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree, and the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) Diploma in Journalism, the nationally recognised industry entry qualification.
NCTJ accreditation is widely recognised as a gold standard for courses that turn out highly skilled, highly motivated and highly employable trainee journalists.
Learn more about the benefits of studying an NCTJ-accredited course .
A few years ago, the idea of being a ‘Social Media Manager’ would have been almost laughable – how hard can it be to ‘manage’ your notifications!?
Social media is so much more than taking selfies, instagramming your breakfast or sharing memes on Facebook though; it’s a powerful business tool that's resulted in an explosion of exciting jobs and careers.
There are many key skills that journalism students need to learn, including interviewing, writing, shorthand, and digital storytelling on social media.
Senior Lecturer and National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) Media Law board member, Carole Watson, explains why learning the law is also essential for any accomplished reporter.
With a journalism career spanning 25 years, Carole Watson is now Programme Leader in Fashion Journalism at the University of Sunderland.
Here, she shares an insight into her distinguished career and talks about the opportunities Sunderland has to offer aspiring journalists.
The National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) provides a world-class education and training system that develops current and future journalists for the demands of the ever-changing media industry.
By studying an NCTJ-accredited course, you’ll be opening the doors to whole range of careers in the media sector.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law:
Work with a fantastic teaching team, advise real clients as part of our Student Law Clinic and perfect your skills in our mock courtroom.
Studying for a degree in Law vastly expands your career opportunities and allows you to develop many transferable skills.
Our curriculum incorporates real-world experience throughout, in a discipline that is highly valued by employers.
We offer several highly relevant and topical Law courses, all offering different ways to study this fascinating subject, including the academic and vocational stages of training required to be a solicitor: LLB and LLM Advanced Legal Practice.
Whichever course you choose, you will receive the same fantastic support, insight and guidance offered by our academic staff who have years of experience in the legal profession.
You'll be based at the state-of-the-art Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s, our idyllic riverside campus within easy reach of Sunderland City Centre.
Here you'll have access to a range of specialist facilities unique to Law students, including an immersive mock courtroom, a law library, access to Lexis and West Law along with a host of work spaces and IT facilities to use across the campus.
Our Student Law Clinic is also based on campus and provides a space for our students to gain real-world experience advising clients on a variety of legal matters.
To help enhance your learning experience, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a range of extracurricular activities throughout your degree, giving you a taste of what your career could look like in the legal field.
In the past, we've carried out a number of fantastic national and international field trips and competed in a range of competitions, including client interviewing competitions, and the mooting competition at the Supreme Court.
You'll also have the opportunity to join the Student Law Society , set up and ran by our students.
The Society hosts a number of social events throughout the year and offers networking opportunities and guidance for members.
To see more about day-to-day life of a Law student, follow us on Instagram , TikTok , and LinkedIn .
Our Law courses are 1st in the north-east for course satisfaction and teaching satisfaction
Our Law courses are 1st in the north-east for teaching quality and student experience
Our Law courses are in the Top 10 in the UK for Graduate Prospects Outcomes
Student Law Clinic
Gain a thorough understanding of legal knowledge to advance your career with a postgraduate qualification and enter the legal profession to become a solicitor.
There is a clear demand for legal professionals who understand the nuances of international law.
Enhance your understanding of the complex frameworks of international law-making and governance.
Investigate and apply the theories, principles and rules of international law.
Graduate with the knowledge you need to develop a career in a range of international organisations.
Looking for a comprehensive knowledge of human rights in order to support your career plans?
This specialist postgraduate degree is particularly relevant for those who are looking for higher-level roles within the legal profession, human rights organisations or international campaigning groups.
Expand your theoretical knowledge at the well-respected Sunderland Law School, ranked 'internationally excellent' in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Use your intellect to solve or prevent problems that have a direct and immediate impact on individuals and society.
Gain thorough knowledge of criminal law and procedure and advance your current career with a postgraduate qualification, particularly relevant if you’re looking for higher-level roles within the legal profession, police, probation service, prison service and HM Revenue and Customs.
Develop an advanced understanding of the legal structures which govern international commerce.
Have access to excellent law facilities, including mooting and debating, client interviewing and membership of the Law Society.
Join Sunderland Student Law Clinic, a professionally supervised service, offering free legal advice and assistance to the general public.
Explore counter-terrorism provisions as they operate within England and Wales.
Consider global responses to terrorism-related issues.
Develop an international perspective on countering terrorism, cyberterrorism and cyber warfare.
Whether you want to learn commercial legal skills, are currently practicing and looking to specialise in commercial or trade law, or are looking to develop a legal profile in the business world, this online LLM provides you with the knowledge, insights and skills to help you achieve your goals.
This course is specifically designed for ambitious professionals and non-legal specialists who want to set themselves apart with a comprehensive skill set and understanding of the management discipline, in combination with specialist knowledge of the legal aspects of business and how they can shape policy and practice.
This specialist postgraduate degree, which is taught at one of our study centres, is particularly relevant for those who are looking for higher-level roles within the legal profession, human rights organisations or international campaigning groups.
Gain thorough knowledge of criminal law and procedure and advance your current career with this postgraduate qualification, which is taught at one of our study centres.
The course is particularly relevant if you’re looking for higher-level roles within the legal profession, police, probation service, prison service and HM Revenue and Customs.
This course is taught at one of our study centres.
When thinking about career options with a law degree, most people will aspire to be a solicitor or barrister.
While these roles are very important, completing a law degree opens many doors for many different types of role within the private, public and third sectors.
Organisations often have an in-house legal team, whose role might be to support HR functions, IP or marketing teams.
For many ordinary people, receiving high-quality legal advice is simply a pipe dream, with a large portion of the general public priced out of such services.
However, the University’s Student Law Clinic is changing the way people in the city think about legal cases.
We sat down with Hannah, the current president of the Law Society at the University of Sunderland, and discussed some of the exciting activities students can get involved in.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media:
Indulge your passion for TV, radio, podcasts, film, and all things media.
Explore an array of career options, from screenwriter and camera operator, to radio presenter, TV producer, or media commentator.
Broadcast live on award-winning Spark Sunderland .
Master your skills in state-of-the-art studios and graduate with a wealth of experience and industry contacts.
Our Film Production and Photography courses are 5th in the UK and our Media and Film Studies courses are 4th in the UK (Guardian University Guide, 2024).
Media can be studied at a practical or theoretical level and you can choose from a range of courses across this spectrum.
Create content with our production courses and choose your medium: TV, radio, and online; cinematic film and high-end TV; or animation.
If you want to balance production skills with a study of film or acting, look into BA (Hons) Film and Media or BA (Hons) Screen Performance.
Our media courses are designed to help you develop practical and theoretical skills that are highly sought after by employers in the industry.
This is a distinctive course for students who love film and want to enter the film industry.
This is a four-year version of BA (Hons) Film Production with an integrated foundation year.
Learn how to create content such as short films, documentaries, music videos and commercials, and gain practical experience and instruction in film crew roles such as Director, Producer, Cinematographer, Editor, Scriptwriter and Sound Mixer.
Graduate with a detailed portfolio, developed skills and technical insight.
Core modules include Film Theory and Criticism, History of Cinema and Media Studies.
You will also have the opportunity to choose from a wide range of optional and practical modules, such as Video Production and Screenwriting.
In addition, you can undertake a work-based placement and gain hands-on practical experience which puts our graduates in high demand from employers.
Gain a strong understanding of media theory.
Study core modules such as Media Studies, Cultural Theory and Digital Media Cultures.
Choose from a broad selection of optional modules, including Popular Music Cultures and Media Production Skills.
Understand analytics and develop tactics, social campaigns and strategies to reach and engage audiences, and build brand reputation.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Animation and Games Art course, with an integrated foundation year.
Get the opportunity to develop skills in traditional and digital animation and games art.
Gain expertise in industry-standard digital software.
Realise your dream of working on the next big animated movie or game.
Explore the practical, theoretical, and contextual aspects of the highly specialist areas of screen performance with this exciting course.
You'll learn the insider skills and techniques for television, film, and radio, and master industry standards and conventions alongside practitioners and leading researchers.
You will learn the insider skills and techniques for Television, Film and Radio and master industry standards and conventions alongside practitioners and leading researchers.
We’ll guide you through the different genres of screen performance such as drama, comedy, soap opera and factual reportage.
Master the art of media communication with a course that blends critical theory and creative practice.
Top-up your existing qualification to a full honours degree.
Develop advanced critical and creative skills across a focused set of modules that explore contemporary issues in media, communication, and culture.
Study core modules such as Media Studies, Cultural Theory and Film Studies.
Choose from a broad selection of optional modules including Moving Camera, Television Studio Operations and Radio Broadcasting.
In your final year, develop a showcase of your media skills to provide evidence of your achievements to media agents and employers.
Mix academic rigour with practical skills.
Undertake a CV-enhancing work placement.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of new media, cultural theory, and popular culture, and their increasing significance in contemporary culture and society.
Acquire new skills using industry-standard equipment.
This film production course is taught at our partner centre.
Radio and podcast production is still a major growth area in the audio sector and this course offers great opportunities to master the skills required to stand out from the crowd.
The course is integrated with our award-winning radio station, Spark Sunderland, and offers practical experience in radio production, presentation, and station management, alongside opportunities to create your own creative podcasts in addition to podcasts for external clients.
Improve your knowledge, build your resume, and be involved in high-quality media content, with technical skills that are in demand across the TV and film industries.
Cover areas of 360 commissioning, workflow, moving camera, advanced editing techniques, and production management.
Jake is one of our many students who takes full advantage of the media facilities and gets the most out of university life.
He attends our weekly CineClub at our new state-of-the-art cinema, where there are different themes and films each week.
He also records a weekly podcast in our podcast studio with friends, which can be available as part of your studies or just for fun.
Find out what a day in Jake's life looks like.
With Oscar-winning contacts and supportive academics boasting a wealth of practical and theoretical expertise, Sunderland is the place to be for media.
Lord David Puttnam, the BAFTA and Oscar-winning film producer, is one of many industry professionals to host regular masterclasses at the University, passing on his expert advice and offering insight into the film industry.
You’ll be based at the David Puttnam Media Centre, giving you access to TV and radio studios complete with green rooms and control rooms.
There are over 50 workstations with state-of-the-art HD edit systems, including Final Cut Pro, Avid, and Media Composer.
We also have our own 200-seat cinema with full HD projection and a 7.1 surround sound facility.
Are you considering a creative career?
Do you wonder what it’s really like to work in the creative industries?
This sector can offer you an exciting and varied career, where no day is the same and creative thinking is actively encouraged.
There are so many creative job roles up for grabs and there’s something to suit everyone’s career goals.
Are you thinking of studying BA (Hons) Film and Media?
Looking forward to sharing your thoughts on film and cinema?
You’re in luck – not only will you get to engage with these topics in class, but you’re also invited to our CineClub.
As a BA (Hons) Film and Media student, not only do you get to combine your love of film with the fascinating world of media, you’ll also get the opportunity to get involved with extracurricular activities.
One of our most popular activities is our organised trips, which aim to enhance your learning experience on the course.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/medicine:
Join a school of medicine at a university with a track-record of excellence in science and healthcare education spanning almost 100 years.
Utilise excellent facilities including state-of-the-art clinical simulation.
Take advantage of our strong partnerships with regional health trusts to support your learning and enable placements.
The School of Medicine at the University of Sunderland opened in 2018.
We have since met all GMC requirements and obtained our Primary Medical Qualification (PMQ) awarding status.
Our first cohort of students graduated as Doctors in 2024.
Our spiral curriculum will enable you to build on your learning year-on-year, adding increased complexity to clinical problems introduced in year one.
Our Medicine course is in the top 20 in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2024) and ranked 5 th overall in the UK on the National Student Survey, and ranked 1 st in the UK for academic support (NSS, 2024).
Find out more about our course below.
The MBChB Medicine honours degree here at Sunderland is designed to ensure you meet the necessary standards in terms of knowledge, skills and professionalism that all new doctors should have as you embark on further training.
With outstanding resources and a distinctive curriculum, we deliver educational excellence in an environment renowned for its friendly nature.
We also welcome students from non-traditional backgrounds, as we believe in giving more people the opportunity to study medicine.
The PgCert in Medical Education is aimed at all staff who educate healthcare professionals or medical students, and for those looking to develop their career in medical education.
On completion of the course, you will have developed your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and have a greater understanding of the delivery and governance of medical training across all levels.
The Master of Medical Education year allows those with qualifications up to the Diploma level (120 credits) to complete their training to the level of a Masters.
This final year of our Masters programme supports the student in completion of a substantial research project or comprehensive literature review.
The project will be in a field related to medical education.
The full-time Master of Medical Education is designed for medical and dental students with a strong interest in medical education and aspirations for a future role in the field.
The Diploma in Medical Education is for those who want to advance their knowledge and skills in Medical Education beyond the PG Cert.
The course is primarily for those who regularly train/supervise medical students or resident doctors.
It is also suitable for those in the dental or veterinary professions.
As an established School of Medicine, our MBChB course has passed the General Medical Council’s (GMC) rigorous quality assurance programme and we have been ratified to award primary medical qualifications.
The MBChB honours degree at the University of Sunderland is designed to ensure you meet the necessary standards in terms of knowledge, skills and professionalism that new doctors should have as they embark on further training.
The course offers an innovative, highly-integrated medical curriculum, incorporating a mixture of core and student-selected modules.
Integration occurs at all levels, and the three vertical themes are included in the core and selected elements in all years.
The University of Sunderland experience is different from most UK medical schools.
We have a relatively small student intake, a city-centre campus by the sea and a supportive community with enthusiastic and committed staff.
We have an excellent track record of attracting and supporting students from the least advantaged socio-economic groups.
The University of Sunderland has been providing higher education since 1901 – including science and areas related to medicine – and we continue to be at the forefront of teaching, learning and research.
Our pioneering cohort graduated in July 2024 and are now working as Foundation Doctors across the country, with 55% having opted to stay in the North East .
Laura Giles was born in Sunderland Royal Hospital, and having graduated in 2024, is now beginning her elective study at the same hospital.
Watch our video to find out more about Laura's journey.
You can also watch our videos about our other Medicine graduates Becky Bramley , Tommy Mackie and Surena Sahota on their experiences studying medicine and graduating as a Doctor in 2024.
Medicine is a challenging but highly-rewarding subject to study at university.
A passion for the sciences, a willingness to help people and a commitment to learn are just some of the things you will need to succeed...
but you know all that.
So let’s cut to the chase.
Why should you study Medicine at Sunderland?
As our School of Medicine welcomes its first intake of medical students, the opportunities after their graduation are enormous.
Achieving MBChB is the key to many doors.
Explore: Health, Science and Wellbeing
Multiple Mini Interviews (video)
Trailblazer Surena set for Sunderland's new School of Medicine
GP Placement Tutor Scheme
Become an OSCE Examiner

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery:
Learn from an enthusiastic team of skilled professionals.
Be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council as a registered nurse.
Start your journey towards a highly rewarding career.
A degree in nursing or midwifery is ideal if you have a genuine interest in a caring profession and improving the lives of patients, and we offer a range of specialist courses including:
We also provide postgraduate degrees to further your existing knowledge, which include the MSc Nursing course, or, for those who wish to convert from a healthcare related degree to become a registered nurse, the accelerated MNurse course.
Read our guide to discover the right Nursing and Midwifery course for you .
The integration of theory and practice is at the centre of our Nursing and Midwifery courses.
Learning is underpinned by evidence-based practice promoting high quality, compassionate and patient-centred healthcare provision.
You'll be supported to relate nursing theory to clinical practice, demonstrating your competence in clinical nursing.
We have a range of facilities on campus to aid your learning, as well as regularly running simulations to give you a taste of what real nursing and midwifery practice will be like.
While nursing and midwifery can be challenging careers, they're highly rewarding professions with plenty of opportunities for growth and progression.
We offer partnerships with leading Trusts within the NHS, as well as a unique relationship with our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants who take part in a variety of activities to support your learning.
We also provide regular opportunities to collaborate in an interprofessional learning capacity with other healthcare courses such as pharmacy, paramedic science, medicine, biomedical science, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and more.
Our undergraduate courses are approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and on successful completion, you'll be eligible to register with them
Our Mental Health Nursing courses are 1st in the North East for teaching satisfaction
Our Nursing and Midwifery courses are in the UK top 30 for student satisfaction
Undertake a range of clinical placements by taking advantage of our strong links with regional NHS partner Trusts
Our Nursing courses are 1st in the North East for teaching quality
Our Clinical and Health courses are ranked amongst the world's best universities
Our courses are designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to support and care for patients and make a real difference to people’s lives.
Nursing and midwifery are rewarding and challenging career paths – start yours at Sunderland with one of our partner NHS Trusts, or develop your existing skills with our top-up and postgraduate courses.
The BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice course will allow you to learn the fundamentals of nursing, working regularly with patients and carers in a hands-on environment both on placement and at university.
Learn from a team of skilled nursing professionals and graduate with the qualifications needed to become a registered adult nurse.
The BSc (Hons) Midwifery Practice course will enable you to develop an in-depth understanding of the physical, mental and social aspects of healthy and complex pregnancy and childbirth.
On successful completion of the course, you'll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered midwife.
The BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing Practice degree will allow you to learn how to deliver person-centred care to those experiencing mental distress and illness.
You'll develop skills to promote recovery and positive mental wellbeing and graduate ready for a rewarding career as a mental health nurse.
Our BSc (Hons) Children's and Young People's Nursing Practice degree will allow you to learn how to care for children and young people in community, acute, and critical settings, and develop confidence through practical application of your learning.
Undertake NHS Trust clinical placements in local healthcare Trusts, which includes the high quality regional services of The Great North Children’s Hospital in Newcastle.
On successful completion of the course, you will be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Registered Nursing Associate.
Learn from an enthusiastic team of skilled professionals and undertake NHS Trust clinical placements.
.
'Top-up' your registered nursing qualification to a full honours degree in one year.
This course places a strong emphasis on relating nursing theory to clinical practice.
Degree qualifications are becoming increasingly vital for moving up to senior positions and our graduates have a strong record of career progression.
Based on the NHS Leadership Framework, you’ll learn to manage people, work within teams, make decisions, evaluate impact and facilitate transformation.
On successful completion of this MNurse degree, you'll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Registered Nurse (Adult).
It has been developed with a blended learning curriculum which will enable you to study at home, as well as on campus and on placement.
On completion of this course, you can expect to find employment at Higher Education institutions, or clinical teaching roles within the public and private sector (subject to meeting the role specification requirements).
Whether you’re thinking of applying for a nursing degree or working towards one and considering your career options, did you know there are plenty of other job opportunities outside the traditional hospital setting?
Here, we’re exploring just a few alternative careers for nurses.
If you’re thinking of becoming a nurse and love working with children, a career in paediatric nursing could be the ideal fit for you.
In this article, we’re exploring just some of the reasons you should consider studying for a children’s nursing degree.
Nursing is one of the UK’s most employable types of degree and gives you the opportunity to make a real difference to people's lives.
Find out more about what you can do with a nursing degree.
Are you interested in a career as a nurse or midwife but aren’t sure which of our courses is right for you?
Find out more about the nursing and midwifery degrees we offer at Sunderland and who they may be suitable for.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/performing-arts:
Perform on stage or in front of the camera, in a variety of studio and professional settings.
Become a well-rounded performer and develop multidisciplinary skills in performance and production.
Get involved with industry through workshops and placements with industry professionals.
Our Drama and Dance courses are 7th in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2024).
We’re also proud to be shortlisted for University of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards 2024.
We offer distinctive on-campus courses :
Each course offers a range of opportunities to equip you with the tools you'll need to become a versatile performer or producer.
We'll teach you performance techniques and pre-production, production, and post-production skills.
You'll also learn transferable skills, such as how to prepare for an interview or teach in community and educational settings.
We also run the following off-campus courses in partnership with Northern Academy of Music Education:
Photographer credit: Claire Bird
We're employability-focused, aiming to provide you with as much work experience as possible.
You'll get plenty of different opportunities to perform, in professional settings such as The Fire Station or our studios on campus.
We also invite industry professionals to deliver masterclasses and workshops to enhance your performance experience.
Some modules even offer placement opportunities, where you'll get first-hand experience working in the performance industry.
We have links with Sunderland Empire Theatre, The Fire Station, The Peacock, Northern Stage, Live Theatre, and the Customs House.
Whether you want to perform on stage, in front of the camera, or work behind the scenes in production, you'll graduate well prepared for a successful career in performing arts, music, or the screen industries.
Take your talent to the next level.
Personalise your course with flexible modules suited to your interests and passions across dance, drama, and musical theatre.
Perfect your skills in state-of-the-art, extensive facilities.
Graduate with a wealth of experience and a host of transferable skills.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Performing Arts course, with an integrated foundation year.
Personalise your course with flexible modules suited to your interests and passions.
Explore the practical, theoretical and contextual aspects of the highly specialist areas of screen performance with this exciting new course.
The BA (Hons) Modern Music Industries course covers the areas of music production, music marketing, event planning, composing, music industry knowledge, stylistic studies, and musical instruction.
You'll gain practical skills in, and knowledge of, these areas in order to pursue a career in commercial music and associated fields.
Top up your HND or Foundation Degree to a full honours degree in music.
Build skills, complete work placements, and graduate as a skilled candidate with extensive dance experience.
This new and unique course is offered by north-east dance organisation, Dance City, in partnership with the University of Sunderland.
All of your practical and academic sessions will take place at Dance City in Newcastle upon Tyne, which will give you access to professional tutors and facilities, as well as placing you at the heart of the region’s dance industry networks.
You'll also benefit from all of the University facilities and support on offer.
MA Modern Music Industries covers the areas of music production, music marketing, event planning, composing, music industry knowledge, stylistic studies, and musical instruction.
You'll gain practical skills in, and knowledge of, these areas to pursue a career in commercial music and associated fields.
Our BA (Hons) Screen Performance course offers a good balance between performance, production, and theoretical knowledge and experience, preparing you for an exciting future in the performance and screen industries.
For anyone who has a passion for performing, a degree in performing arts can be your path to a fulfilling and hugely engaging career.
Our Performing Arts department has a proud history of delivering quality degrees that are an immersive, enlightening and interactive experience for students.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences:
Benefit from teaching by expert staff with first-hand experience of pharmacy practice and the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries.
Put your learning into practice with our innovative facilities including simulated environments and industry-standard equipment and laboratories.
Apply your on-campus studies to relevant work experience opportunities and placements.
We offer undergraduate courses in Pharmacy, Biopharmaceutical Science, Biochemistry, Medicinal Chemistry and Cosmetic Science.
At postgraduate level you can study MScs in Drug Discovery and Development, Pharmaceutical and Biopharmaceutical Formulations, and Cosmetic Science, or extend your professional development as a pharmacist with a range of qualifications including Clinical Pharmacy (PGDip and MSc available), OSPAP, and the Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Programme.
Learn from expert staff who are at the forefront of current practice and research through their links with regional trusts and multinational companies.
Work in state-of-the-art clinical spaces including mock hospital wards and simulation suites, or in industry-standard laboratories with a range of analytical equipment.
Network with employers through placements, guest lectures, industry visits, and mentoring.
Our Pharmacy and Pharmacology courses are 1st in the UK
We have over 100 years of expertise in teaching pharmacy and pharmaceutical sciences
Our MPharm Pharmacy degree is accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council
BSc (Hons) Biopharmaceutical Science, BSc (Hons) Biochemistry and BSc (Hons) Medicinal Chemistry share a common first year
We offer longitudinal placements throughout all four years of MPharm Pharmacy, and 'sandwich year' placements for our Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Science courses
Play a vital role in improving the health of patients.
Become an expert in the design, development and therapeutic use of drugs.
At Sunderland, we have been teaching pharmacy for almost 100 years, and we are accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council's new standards for pharmacy education.
This is a four-year version of our BSc (Hons) Medicinal Chemistry course with an integrated foundation year.
Study small molecule drug discovery and design.
Prepare for a career in the pharmaceutical industry or research institute.
Be the next generation of chemical and pharmaceutical scientists.
Experience a rich and diverse syllabus and learning experience.
Benefit from industry and employer-relevant content.
Access expertise and resources that are used by our long-standing Biomedical and Pharmaceutical programmes.
Utilise the latest technologies in genetics, chemistry, computation, and analytical sciences.
Graduate fully equipped to work in pharmaceutics, biological research, and clinical and pathological sciences.
Do you want to be part of an industry that is constantly evolving and generates billions of pounds a year?
Our Cosmetic Science course allows you to gain expertise in the formulation, manufacture, regulation and quality control of cosmetic fragrance and personal care products.
Enhance your employability with a year-long paid industry placement.
Graduate fully equipped to work as a researcher or scientist for the cosmetics industry.
Gain expertise in the formulation and manufacture of cosmetic, fragrance and personal care products.
Join an exciting and growing industry that offers creative and scientific careers and generates billions of pounds a year.
Study a variety of animal-related topics including the fundamentals of animal husbandry and health, introduction to animal biological sciences, conservation and academic skill development.
This course is ideal for learners who wish to study and work with animals in a range of contexts and those who wish to go on to further study or employment within the animal management sector.
Progress from our established BSc (Hons) Cosmetic Science course or a related discipline such as chemical engineering or chemistry.
Specialise in the higher-level knowledge and skills required by the cosmetics sector and become employable in it.
The PgDip/MSc in Clinical Pharmacy has been designed to align with the Royal Pharmaceutical Society's (RPS) foundation and advanced pharmacist frameworks and the RPS's knowledge summary guides.
Gain vital core skills and knowledge necessary to prepare for your role as an advanced pharmacist practitioner and prescriber, and use your portfolio assessments in building your RPS individual pharmacist portfolio.
Contribute to the discovery and development of drugs that could potentially save millions of lives.
Take on practical projects which have previously involved collaborations with leading companies such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Helena Biosciences.
Develop your knowledge in drug delivery systems for large molecules such as proteins, genes, and anticancer drugs that offer innovative ways to improve the health and wellbeing of our society.
Focus on nanotechnology, dosage forms, pharmacokinetics, and statistical methods used in data analysis.
Work alongside academics with broad research interests, including formulation of different dosage forms, pharmaceutical analysis, process chemistry, various drug discovery programmes, and drug delivery systems.
Already a qualified pharmacist outside the European Economic Area and are looking to qualify as a registered pharmacist in the UK?
Earn your qualification in the only University in the North of England to offer an Overseas Pharmacist Assessment Programme that is accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council.
Do you live in Hong Kong and want to study Clinical Pharmacy delivered by a respected UK university?
This course covers the principles of clinical pharmacy and a range of therapeutic areas including cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, endocrine, dermatology, infections, dermatology, CNS, oncology and palliative care.
A Masters qualification is highly sought after by employers and leads to professional progression and elevated levels of employment.
Are you a registered pharmacist in your own country and want to practise in the UK?
You’ve probably heard of the Overseas Pharmacist Assessment Programme (or OSPAP, as it’s more commonly known) but do you have all the information you need to apply?
Read on to find out more about the OSPAP at The University of Sunderland.
Placements are an important part of the MPharm course.
Your placements will prepare you for the workplace, while complementing your on-campus studies.
You’ll get direct experience with patients in a variety of settings, building your confidence and developing your practical and communication skills.
Alexander Moore, Senior Lecturer in Pharmacy Practice and Clinical Therapeutics, and the course leader for the Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Programme, explains everything you need to know about your foundation training year.
MSc Clinical Pharmacy is a part-time postgraduate course for pharmacists looking to advance their clinical practice.
The course is flexible, and our range of optional modules can be tailored to suit your individual clinical learning needs whether you work in primary, secondary or tertiary care.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology:
Immerse yourself in psychology.
Learn how we act, react, and interact with each other.
Examine the brain, human behaviour, and a wide range of phenomena to develop transferable skills you can use in any context.
Is your mind made up about studying psychology?
At the University of Sunderland, we offer a variety of psychology courses to suit a wide range of specialisms.
We currently have four undergraduate pathways available, which are:
Each of these routes are also available with an Integrated Foundation Year .
If you have studied a different undergraduate programme but aspire to become a psychologist, we offer the MSc Psychology (Conversion) course.
For practicing counsellors, you can advance your undergraduate training and experience through our MA Advancing Counselling Practice .
Read our guide to find the right Psychology course for you.
Psychology is the understanding and explanation of behaviour in both human and non-human species.
We reach these conclusions about behaviour by analysing and conducting research, as this is pivotal to the study of psychology.
You will be trained in a variety of approaches to cover different psychology pathways, creating a wealth of transferable skills and understanding.
Our courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society, who outline five key areas in the learning of the subject, which are:
While many undergraduate psychology courses teach these topics as separate entities, we take an integrated approach specific to your level of learning, incorporating several of these areas into our modules.
For example, rather than covering just one topic within one module, we will also consider additional factors.
This gives you a thorough understanding of these key areas and ensures a well-rounded approach to psychology.
With a psychology degree, you can choose what you want to do, whether it be while studying or as part of your career.
We offer bespoke content through our optional modules in stages two and three which means you can build and shape your degree to suit your interests.
If you’re seeking a career in psychology, our undergraduate courses offer students who graduate with a 2:2 or above a Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership to the British Psychological Society, which is an essential step to becoming a psychologist.
At Sunderland, we offer a diverse, friendly, and supportive environment, with a focus on inclusivity.
As a psychology student, we want you to feel part of our community, and that you can be yourself, whoever you are.
Read our article for more reasons to study Psychology .
Our Psychology courses are in the UK top 10
Our Psychology courses are 1st in the north-east for teaching quality
Our Psychology courses offer students who graduate with a 2:2 or above a Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership to the British Psychological Society
The School of Psychology was awarded an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2021, in recognition of its commitment to supporting and transforming gender equality
With an exciting range of modules to suit an array of different interests, BPS accreditation and specialist psychological laboratories, you’ll be perfectly set up for a career in Psychology.
Boasting a Psychology Department rated fourth in terms of teaching excellence in the UK, you can have great confidence in the quality of our Psychology course.
Add a counselling strand to our outstanding psychology course and explore two complementary and exciting disciplines.
Gain wide-ranging insights into how people behave and how they can be helped to tackle problems.
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling course, with an integrated foundation year.
Study criminals and their crimes with our BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology course.
This course will directly prepare you for application to postgraduate forensic psychology courses and graduate jobs in prisons, rehabilitation units, and secure hospitals as well as in public services, social work and teaching positions.
Specialist forensic psychology modules will develop your knowledge and skills.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a work-based placement to gain real-life experience of the field.
This course will introduce you to the field of clinical psychology and will encourage you to develop a comprehensive understanding of core psychological theories and concepts.
Top-up a Foundation Degree in Counselling to a full honours degree, whilst still having the time to complete work experience whilst you study.
Build on your existing knowledge, enhance your practice and reflect more widely on your professional development.
Reflect on your workplace experiences by studying this Foundation course at partner colleges on a part-time basis, allowing you to combine it with practical placements or paid work.
Take the first step to becoming a chartered psychologist.
Undertake the same grounding in psychological science as a three-year undergraduate course.
Explore the six core areas of psychology, including social psychology, individual differences, and developmental psychology, as well as cognitive psychology, biological psychology, and conceptual and historical issues in psychology.
Deepen and extend your professional knowledge.
Develop your skills in the context of the contemporary mental health landscape.
Advance your professional practice and experience as a qualified counselling practitioner.
Take the first step to becoming a chartered psychologist, without leaving your home country.
Explore the six core areas of psychology, including social psychology, individual differences and developmental psychology, as well as cognitive psychology, biological psychology and conceptual and historical issues in psychology.
The MA Integrative Counselling provides a comprehensive training as a counselling practitioner.
Across the three years of study, you will gain a sold grounding in a range of theoretical approaches to counselling allowing you to conceptualise client difficulties drawing on diverse perspectives.
Dr Helen Driscoll is a Principal Lecturer in Psychology and Team Leader for the undergraduate Psychology courses at the University of Sunderland.
Her areas of specialism are evolutionary psychology, individual differences and quantitative research.
Here, Helen shares her five reasons why you should study Psychology at Sunderland.
A psychology degree develops important skills that could help you land your dream job.
We talked to Senior Lecturer in Psychology and Employability Coordinator, Carole Carter, about the wide range of careers you can have as a psychology graduate.
Being a forensic psychologist can be challenging, but rewarding at the same time.
You could be working with prisoners, or giving evidence in court as an expert witness.
It's safe to say that no two days will be the same.
We spoke with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology Programme Leader Dr Laura Farrugia about being a forensic psychologist and why Sunderland's course is unique.
If you know you’re passionate about psychology, but you’re unsure which course is right for you, we’re breaking down our specialist Psychology courses to help you choose the right pathway.
All our undergraduate Psychology programmes are accredited by the British Psychological Society.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences:
Think differently about the world you live in.
Explore global and local issues.
Gain experience in relevant organisations.
Graduate equipped to help change society for the better with a social science degree.
Social Sciences help us understand and contribute to our complex society.
Our Social Science courses will enable you to develop skills in critical thinking, communication and teamwork that will help you make a difference in changing society for the better.
You can also boost your employability further by utilising the strong partnerships we have with employers, voluntary organisations, local authorities and hospitals, providing you with the opportunity to further your learning in an environment that allows you to make a real difference.
Several of our social science degrees have been designed with Continuing Professional Development (CPD) in mind and some also have professional accreditation.
They are particularly relevant if you work in the field of health and social care or work with children, young people, families and the elderly, and want to update your skills for the new multidisciplinary and interagency working practices.
Our Social Sciences students are based in Wearside View, a recently refurbished building with bright and modern classrooms and a brand new social space, complete with a balcony for warmer weather.
Wearside View is located at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, which benefits from a scenic riverside location and is just a stone's throw away from Sunderland city centre and the beach.
You'll have access to a wide range of fantastic facilities at St Peter's, including library services, a host of IT resources, and plenty of places to eat and drink.
In its broadest sense, Social Science focuses on the scientific study of human society and social relationships amongst individuals.
It explores the interaction between these individuals to understand the influence of human behaviour on the world around us and how we're constantly evolving.
Social Sciences aren't to be confused with the Natural Sciences, which focus on examining the aspects of the physical world.
They comprise a wide range of academic disciplines, covering subjects such as sociology, economics, linguistics, psychology, and politics to name a few.
It's an important area of study, as examining human behaviour allows us to develop our social, cultural and political awareness.
Our social work courses are 1st in the north-east and 3rd in the UK
World-leading
Our Social Work courses are 1st in the North East and 14th in the UK
Our Childhood and Youth Studies courses are 11th in the UK for graduate prospects
Develop your ability to work effectively with children, young people, and vulnerable adults, and shadow qualified social workers in practice.
This course combines an honours degree with a professional qualification in Social Work approved by Social Work England and endorsed by the College of Social Work.
Refine your professional approach.
Build up the graduate attributes of a reflective practitioner and cover a range of topics that include child development, early years, the primary curriculum, and family studies.
Make a real difference to the lives of young people and their communities.
Learn from a teaching team of experienced and qualified youth workers.
Graduated with a qualification in youth work accredited by the JNC.
Do you want to top-up a Foundation Degree to a full honours degree in Childhood Studies?
Take advantage of a degree-level opportunity for professional development that is perfect if you are working with young people in the early years or primary education sectors.
Take up an optional pathway in Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society course, with an integrated foundation year.
Prepare yourself for the increasing number of jobs in the highly rewarding areas of health, wellbeing, and social care.
Develop your knowledge and skills in areas such as psychosocial perspectives of health, counselling, research, health improvement and behaviour change.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Childhood Studies, with an integrated foundation year.
Refine your professional approach, build up the graduate attributes of a reflective practitioner, and cover a range of topics that include child development, early years, the primary curriculum and family studies.
Combine practical skills with academic rigour, and work more effectively with children in a variety of contexts.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Community and Youth Work Studies course, with an integrated foundation year.
With our BA (Hons) Social Work Degree Apprenticeship, you will study for a degree while also gaining invaluable 'on the job' experience.
Social Workers improve the lives of a huge range of people.
As an apprentice, you will undertake much of your learning ‘on the job’ with the support of your employer and designated mentor.
Are you already experienced in the field of health and social care?
This foundation degree, which has been developed in recognition of the multidisciplinary nature of current and future occupational destinations within the health and social care fields, will help you build on your knowledge and add to your skills.
Understand organisational dynamics and specialise in particular pathways, areas, and topics of interest.
Prepare yourself for the increasing number of jobs in the highly rewarding areas of health and social care.
Earn a qualification approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Combine theory and practice.
Undertake high quality work placements with employers across public/voluntary and private sectors endorsed by the College of Social Work.
Why are some groups more equal than others?
Why does inequality happen and how can we tackle it?
This exciting and unique course will offer you the chance to deepen your understanding of inequality in our social world, both locally and globally.
Develop your understanding of children, childhood, and youth.
Choose from three different pathways depending on your interests, previous experience, and career goals.
Graduate capable of working in a wide range of sectors.
If you choose a degree in social science, you could be presented with a wide variety of job opportunities when you graduate.
We’ve compiled a list of seven potential jobs you could go into with a social science degree to give you some inspiration.
Are you interested in studying for a community and youth work degree but want to know more about what this means?
Here, we explore what youth work involves and what you can expect from a career in this rewarding field.
Are you considering becoming a social worker but want to find out more about what this career involves?
Here, we explore everything you need to know, including the roles and responsibilities of a social worker, the skills and qualifications you’ll need, and more about our social work courses.
We caught up with Senior Lecturer, Drew Dalton, to find out why social sciences are a great area to study at degree level and how they can make you think differently.
Social Sciences student blog

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
Turn your passion into a fulfilling and rewarding career.
Inspire the next generation of sportsmen and women.
Help people become healthier, play a key role in the prevention of disease and perfect your craft in our state-of-the-art laboratories.
Our Sports Sciences courses are ranked 17th in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2024).
Our suite of Sport and Exercise Sciences degrees will help you develop skills in coaching, exercise leadership and management, introductory sports and exercise sciences, and the social contexts in which sport and exercise exist.
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education aims to develop aspiring coaches and future educators equipped to teach in the primary, secondary and tertiary educational settings.
Equip yourself with the skills and knowledge needed to work in the exciting sport and leisure sector.
Learn about sport-related psychology, physiology, anatomy and biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and performance analysis.
Undertake a final-year applied project and placement, working with real athletes/sports teams to improve performance.
Thrive in helping people exceed their potential every day.
With industry standard software at your fingertips, including 2D Dartfish and the Catapult Minimax System, help break boundaries and maybe even bring through the next Mo Farah or Usain Bolt.
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education via Study Centres aims to develop aspiring coaches and future educators equipped to teach in primary, secondary, and tertiary educational settings.
The course is aligned to the industry standards set by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Develop a solid grounding in measurement, evaluation, research methods, data analysis, and sport and exercise psychology.
Undertake real-world internships.
Build up experience with external clients and sports clubs.
By studying Sport here at Sunderland, you’ll be putting your future career in the best of hands.
Our innovative courses have been developed in consultation with industry and sport and exercise governing bodies, and are supported by excellent teaching.
In addition, with increasing concerns and awareness about less-active, sedentary lifestyles, poor diets and mental health, there is a drive for well-qualified and experienced sport, exercise, health and nutrition professionals.
You could be one of those professionals delivering the services that are needed to get the country fit and active, ensuring that we have sportsmen and women who can compete at the highest levels.
We caught up with Dr Eddie Bradley, programme leader of BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Sciences at the University of Sunderland, to find out why sport is a great subject to study at degree level.
Explore: Health, Sciences and Wellbeing
Sport and Exercise Sciences case studies

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education:
Play a vital role in helping children and young people develop and fulfil their potential.
Make a positive difference to their lives as they progress through their education.
Enjoy excellent job prospects and a rewarding career when you study for a teaching or education degree.
We've been training teachers for over 100 years and offer a wide-ranging provision of undergraduate and postgraduate Education courses aimed at both aspiring and practising teachers, as well as those who wish to work in other areas of the education sector.
Find out more about the different areas of study within Education to see which courses could be suitable for you.
Some key strengths of our teaching and education courses are strong communication and positive relationships between the University and its partner schools, and the commitment of trainers in partnership schools to the all-round development of our trainees.
Our comprehensive degrees will give you the skills needed to make a real difference in educating the next generation, as well as thrive on a personal level with a rewarding career.
Our Education students are based in Wearside View, one of our recently renovated buildings at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
Wearside View features a number of spacious classrooms for teaching and learning, as well as a newly refurbished social space with its own balcony.
The Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's is positioned right next to Sunderland's scenic riverside, and is just a short distance from both the city centre and beaches.
The campus benefits from a variety of brilliant facilities, including its own library, IT resources, and several eating and drinking options.
Being a teacher is a challenging but incredibly rewarding career where you’ll play a significant part in developing children’s learning and becoming somebody they look up to and, in many cases, remember for the rest of their lives.
There’s always demand for qualified teachers, so unlike a lot of other degrees, there will likely be sufficient job prospects available to you when you graduate.
Funding for trainee teachers is also better than it’s ever been before, and you may be eligible for a scholarship or tax-free bursary to help you with your teacher training at university.
Read our funding article to find out more.
As well as all of this, working in the education sector offers excellent career progression, the chance to feel part of a warm and friendly community, and the opportunity to really make a difference.
Our Education courses are 2nd in the North East to Durham for Graduate Prospects Outcomes (Complete University Guide 2024)
We have partnerships with over 650 schools, colleges and other educational establishments across the North East and beyond
Our Education courses are in the top 50 in the UK
This three-year course provides Initial Teacher Education for people who would like to teach at primary level.
Gain both an honours degree and Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), and develop your critical understanding of effective teaching and learning within a primary school context.
This three-year SEND course provides Initial Teacher Education for people who would like to teach at primary level.
Alongside this you will specialise in supporting pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND).
Gain both an honours degree and Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), and develop skills for working in SEND.
Complete an honours degree and gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) within three years, saving you time and money compared to traditional routes into teaching.
This course develops your knowledge in mathematics so that you are confident in your mastery of the subject, and forms part of our suite of Initial Teacher Education for people who would like to teach at secondary level.
BSc (Hons) Physical Education with QTS is a fast-track route into teaching, taking just three years to be a fully qualified PE teacher in secondary education.
You'll develop your skills and knowledge to teach in a creative and imaginative way, using a variety of different approaches.
Through exploring your understanding of teaching and learning, you can apply your subject knowledge and expertise to planning and teaching.
If a career in a wide range of educational contexts with young people and adults, such as teaching, support, training, administration, and research interests you, then this course is for you.
If a career in a wide range of educational contexts with young people and adults, such as teaching, support, training, administration, and research interests you, then this part-time, in-service Education Studies course is for you.
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Education Studies, with an integrated foundation year.
Gain a depth of understanding about the aims and values of education in society today with a rigorous academic approach.
Are you already working as a teacher or trainer in Further Education and want to advance your career with a professional qualification?
Develop an understanding of learning and learners and improve your teaching skills while benefitting from national and international educational research and development work of our academics.
Become a primary school teacher and help children get the best possible start in life.
Undertake a range of school placements and cover the knowledge and skills that are required for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Learn on the job with our PGCE Primary Education with QTS (School Based) route into teaching.
Develop first-class teaching skills on a course with a strong element of practical experience in schools where you can work alongside experienced practitioners.
Empower generations of young people as they learn and apply new mathematics principles – knowledge that they will use throughout their academic and professional careers.
Generous bursaries are available for you to train to become a maths teacher.
Use your expertise in biology to make a positive impact on the lives of young people, and help them to achieve their potential.
Take advantage of generous bursaries from the Government to teach a subject where teachers are in high demand.
Share your passion for chemistry and inspire a new generation of scientists.
Make the most of bursaries of up to £27,000 and utilise your physics background to enjoy a rewarding career in secondary education.
Help to shape and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers.
Make the most of bursaries of up to £27,000 and utilise your physics background to enjoy a rewarding career.
Help children develop new ways of thinking and new ways of being creative with code.
With computer science being a priority subject, attractive financial incentives are available to encourage talented programmers like you to become secondary school teachers.
Share your passion for English with young people and inspire them to fulfil their potential.
English is a core subject in the National Curriculum at Key Stages 3 and 4 so there will always be a need for effective and committed English teachers.
Guide generations of young people and share your passion for human geography, physical geography and the environment.
Take advantage of financial incentives available for those who train to teach geography including bursaries of up to £25,000.
Share your passion for history.
Help young people achieve their potential.
Become a confident and innovative history teacher.
Be part of the new generation of secondary school teachers.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Business has been designed to train teachers to practise as a subject specialist teacher of 11-16 year olds.
You're assessed against the standards for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) across this age range.
This course will also cover vocational qualifications such as BTEC.
This one-year course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
You'll attend placements in a variety of educational settings to gain a broad understanding of the realities of secondary level teaching.
This course qualifies you to teach Religious Education (RE) at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England and Wales.
The one-year course blends expert theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience, combined with the subject knowledge required to develop confident and innovative teachers who will make this vital subject accessible to all learners.
Share your passion for languages and help young people achieve their potential.
Become a confident and innovative teacher.
Be part of the new generation of language teachers.
Qualify as a teacher from anywhere in the world with this International Initial Teacher Training distance learning course in Education.
Gain a globally recognised qualification.
Expand your career possibilities.
Enrol on our PGCE Early Years Teaching (DL) degree and qualify as an Early Years Teacher from anywhere in the world.
This International Initial Teacher Training distance learning course allows you to develop an expertise working with young children.
Learn advanced research and study skills while acquiring master's level knowledge that's shaped by your personal interests and career aspirations.
Become a specialist in Education and develop your professional practice.
Acquire advanced research and study skills whether you are in the UK or overseas.
Enhance your understanding to equip you for various roles within teaching and educational management.
Become a specialist in international education.
Boost your career prospects.
Learn from anywhere in the world with flexible distance learning.
Become a specialist in SEND Education by studying issues around Special Educational Needs and/or Disabilities in a way that suits you.
Enhance learning and teaching for children with special educational needs and/or disabilities.
Qualify to teach in the Further Education and Skills sector, which includes sixth form colleges, Further Education colleges, vocational training and adult education.
Equip yourself to educate adults and young people, sharing your knowledge and helping others fulfil their potential.
This Level 7 Mentoring and Coaching course is ideal for teachers or other educational professionals who want to develop their careers with a Mentoring and Coaching qualification.
You will gain knowledge, understanding and intellectual skills that you can apply to your own teaching position to enhance your career.
Prepare yourself for Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status, which is a key qualification for teaching in further education and can be gained in the year after you finish the course.
QTLS is relevant to vocational training, adult education, and teaching in sixth-form colleges.
This part-time PCET course will put you on the right track to becoming a teacher in the post compulsory education and training sector.
Combine study with work and family commitments.
Study a range of relevant topics and benefit from the opportunity to design, deliver, and evaluate teaching and learning in real-world classroom settings.
Improve your teaching skills as you gain a recognised university qualification.
If you want to teach young people and adults this part-time ProfGCE PCET course will provide you with the necessary qualifications to teach in the post compulsory education and training sector.
Study on a course directly informed by the national and international research of the teaching team and benefit from its direct link to SUNCETT, our Centre for Excellence in Teacher Training.
This PGCE Higher Education is aimed at academic staff working in higher education and covers contemporary approaches to teaching and student learning.
You'll be introduced to academic practice with an overview of learning theories, practical classroom teaching and learning approaches, and develop insight into the theory behind pedagogical approaches to learning and teaching.
This Master of Education (Higher Education) is aimed at academic staff working in higher education.
The course provides initial teacher preparation for staff new to education, with modules covering teaching, learning, assessment, and curriculum design.
Later modules cover leading course provision and dealing with student success, retention, attainment, and managing complex issues.
This PGCE Health Professions course has a strong focus on developing practical skills around teaching and assessment.
Examine a range of approaches to teaching, learning and assessment including virtual, augmented and immersive technologies.
Medical students are now learning clinical sciences alongside disease aetiology, treatment and management.
Medical education is also at the forefront of developing robust, reliable and valid student assessments.
This Medical Education PgCert is aimed at academic staff looking to develop their career in medical education.
This Master of Medical Education is an internationally recognised higher degree in medical education with a major emphasis on developing you as a contemporary educator in medicine.
The course has a strong practical focus both through its taught and research/project components ensuring that you are able to transform your practice in the classroom, clinical setting and in simulated environments.
Are you considering studying for a teaching degree and want to specialise in STEM education?
Read on to discover why teaching a STEM subject is both rewarding and beneficial to your career.
It’s no secret that a career in education ranks incredibly highly when it comes to job satisfaction – but why become a primary teacher?
Explore the top ten reasons to become a primary school teacher below and find out more about this extraordinary career path.
If you’re thinking of studying for a degree in education, becoming a secondary school teacher comes with lots of benefits and is a highly rewarding career choice.
Here, we’re exploring just a few of the great reasons you should consider choosing secondary education.
Researching the various types of teacher training qualifications can be a struggle, so what really is the difference between PGCE and QTS, and which is the most suitable for you?
We’re giving you a breakdown of each of these qualifications to help you make an informed decision when choosing your teacher training course.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/top-up:
Top up your existing qualification to a full honours degree from a top 40 UK university (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Benefit from the University's outstanding facilities and learn from research-active staff.
Graduate qualified for degree-level jobs in your chosen field.
Top-up degrees are equivalent to the final year of a three-year undergraduate degree and allow you to 'top up' an existing qualification into a full honours degree.
If you currently hold a Level 5 qualification, such as a foundation degree or an HND, which are equivalent to the first two years of a degree, you may wish to top up to apply for graduate-level roles or to look at postgraduate study or research opportunities.
Topping up your qualifications can provide you with the extra skills and experience you'll need in your next professional role.
Choose from a wide range of subjects and courses, with areas including nursing, business and management, computer science, and engineering.
Benefit from state-of-the-art facilities at both City Campus and the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
Nursing and healthcare facilities at City Campus include the Living Lab and Helen McArdle House , where you can find mock hospital wards, pharmacy dispensaries, and hi-fidelity immersive simulation suites.
Over at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus, the David Goldman Technology Centre is home to engineering labs (including electronics, mechanical, and product development), computer science labs (including new networks and cyber zone), as well as a 3D interactive igloo that immerses you in a 360-degree screen and sound system.
You'll be taught by research-active staff, and benefit from our partnerships and strong links with major companies, including Sony, CISCO, Sage, and Nissan.
There are opportunities for flexible learning as many of our top-up courses are offered on a part-time basis, so you can study while you work and manage other life commitments.
You can apply by finding us on UCAS (institution code S84) or by selecting the 'Apply now' button on the relevant course page.
We're a top 50 UK University
We’re in the top 20 UK universities for mature students
We're 1st in the north-east for student satisfaction
Hear from top-up students about their experiences of studying with us:
Gain a comprehensive understanding of new media, cultural theory and popular culture, and their increasing significance in contemporary culture and society.
Top up your HND or Foundation Degree to full honours in Music.
Build skills, complete work placements and graduate as a skilled candidate with extensive dance experience.
Benefit from Sunderland Business School’s expertise in banking and finance without leaving your home region.
Cover theories and their limitations, important concepts and how to respond to practical issues within banking and finance.
Benefit from Sunderland’s excellence in the teaching of tourism without leaving your home region or country.
Learn the fundamentals of International Hospitality Management as you cover a broad range of topics such as strategic planning for tourism and leisure, e-tourism and leadership and management for the hospitality industry.
Do you hold a Diploma in Management Studies or equivalent qualification and want to top up to a full MBA?
Want to top-up a Foundation Degree to a full honours degree?
Examine the most important issues facing modern policing.
Gain an undergraduate degree qualification in one year of study.
Strengthen your professional practice.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/healthcare:
Higher and degree apprenticeships are an exciting, contemporary approach to work-based learning, offering the opportunity to gain a foundation, undergraduate, or postgraduate degree through a blend of work and study.
This allows our apprentices to enhance their skills and knowledge to progress their career, with no tuition fees for learners and funding available to employers.
Gain valuable insight from a team of experts with extensive experience in nursing, research, and practice.
Our apprenticeships are thoughtfully designed in collaboration with local NHS Trusts and healthcare providers, offering apprentices the perfect foundation to kickstart and advance their nursing careers.
Your chosen career will be at the forefront of your learning and we prioritise the development of necessary skills through our practical sessions, high-quality teaching from our experienced team, and utilising the exceptional facilities available.
Build on your knowledge of biology and chemistry by learning how the human body and different organ systems function, and the causes and progress of disease.
Work in innovative facilities, including simulated environments and laboratories with industry-standard equipment.
As part of our healthcare provision, we offer a range of apprenticeships suitable for the non-clinical support services in NHS Trusts or private providers, whether in digital, administration, or leadership.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/engineering-digital:
Higher and degree apprenticeships are an innovative, modern approach to work-based learning, offering the opportunity to gain a foundation, undergraduate, or postgraduate degree through a combination of work and study.
This allows our apprentices to enhance their skills and knowledge to progress their careers, with no tuition fees for learners and funding available to employers.
Our apprenticeships are designed in partnership with employers, ensuring the development of practical skills that meet the needs of modern industries.
We host a number of state-of-the-art engineering facilities on campus at the David Goldman Technology Centre.You can benefit from upgraded electronic engineering, mechanical engineering, and product development laboratories.
Immerse yourself in cutting-edge digital disciplines and gain the skills needed to thrive in the rapidly evolving tech sector.
Benefit from expert teaching and access state-of-the-art technical facilities and specialist labs, including a Game Development Lab, Networks and Cybersecurity Lab, CyberZone, a 3D interactive Igloo, Data Science visualisation lab, and an Internet of Things enabled space.
Our apprenticeships are designed in partnership with employers to upskill existing teams and/or recruit new talent, further contributing to growth of digital skills across businesses in our region.
In addition to our engineering and digital provision, we offer a range of apprenticeships aimed at developing skills in management, operations, and other non-technical areas essential to the success of engineering and digital organisations.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/education-social-care:
Learn from an experienced team dedicated to fostering excellence in teaching and education leadership.
Our apprenticeships are designed in collaboration with schools, colleges, and educational organisations, providing apprentices with the knowledge and skills to shape future generations.
Prepare for a challenging and rewarding career in areas of social care or youth work, supporting individuals and communities.
Our courses emphasise practical training, compassionate care, and developing resilience to face the challenges across a variety of settings across our communities.
Support services play a crucial role in education and social care settings.
Our non-specialist courses focus on leadership, administration, and organisational growth.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-sport-ex-sciences:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Sciences course, with an integrated foundation year.
Specialise in coaching or deepen your knowledge of sport and exercise physiology, psychology, biomechanics, personal training, performance analysis, treatment of sports injuries.
This is the broadest of our suite of sports courses.
You will gain practical experience in the fields of psychology, physiology, biomechanics, nutrition and injury rehabilitation.
You will combine these disciplines to analyse and develop strategies to optimise performance in sport and exercise, which will be supported by our excellent teaching team.
Our teaching methods are designed to develop not only your knowledge but also skills that enhance employability.
Methods include small group work, practical activities, workshops, lectures, tutorials, computer-based learning, presentations and independent learning.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, there are also on-going assessments for feedback and consolidating your learning.
Assessment methods include essays, reports, practical work and presentations.
The Sport, Physical Education and Rehabilitative Therapies Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
Some modules have prerequisites.
Read more about what this means in our Help and Advice article .
Ready to build skills that help you succeed at university and beyond?
You'll understand the importance of learning and development for continued lifelong success.
Want to know about the different jobs in sport, exercise, health, or education?
You’ll explore varied roles and find out what kinds of careers are out there.
Plus, you’ll learn what employers expect and how to present yourself like a true professional.
You’ll also get 50 hours of work experience in sport, health, fitness, or education.
This hands-on placement helps you visualise your future career depending on your interests.
You’ll start by learning the basics of human physiology and nutrition – how your body systems work and how they respond during exercise.
In physiology, you’ll focus on how your body reacts right after exercise.
For nutrition, you’ll learn the key principles about healthy eating and how to check someone’s nutritional health.
You’ll also practice important skills like carrying out simple tests on the body and nutrition, and learn how to explain the results clearly.
This module covers everything you need to know about coaching – from basic skills and history to sports psychology and how technology helps coaches today.
Each week builds on what you’ve learned, giving you a full picture of sports coaching and the theory behind it.
You’ll explore important ideas like motor skills, communication, practice, and feedback.
You’ll also look at how coaches help athletes grow over time and how psychology can boost performance.
You’ll learn how to use these ideas to understand and improve athletes’ performance.
Finally, you’ll work with your classmates to create and give a group presentation.
You’ll build your knowledge of human anatomy and movement by studying the upper limbs, lower limbs, trunk, and neck through hands-on activities.
You’ll learn to identify key bones, muscles, and nerves using anatomical models, images, virtual tools, and real people.
You’ll also learn how to break down how the body moves using basic biomechanical principles.
This means understanding how joints and muscles work together during normal and abnormal movements.
On top of that, you’ll practice important skills like talking with clients and doing physical assessments – skills every health and performance professional needs.
You’ll learn what it means to be a professional in sport and exercise.
This includes understanding your role and how research helps you grow.
You’ll also get real work experience through a placement that matches industry standards.
During the course, you’ll work towards skills needed to become a Level 3 Personal Trainer or Strength and Conditioning coach.
These are important qualifications if you want to work in fitness and sport.
You’ll also discover how learning and developing new skills doesn’t stop after university – it’s a lifelong process.
What kind of athlete or client would you want to work with?
You’ll learn the basics of exercise physiology and how it helps in training for sport and fitness.
We’ll look at how exercise affects your heart, lungs, muscles, and metabolism, and how your body adapts over time with training.
You’ll study these changes from two sides – how they help everyday health and how they improve elite athletic performance.
You’ll also practice strength and conditioning skills used by both regular people and top athletes.
You’ll get hands-on experience with advanced fitness tests in the lab and outside, then use what you learn to work on real case studies.
You’ll practice analysing client needs, running tests, and creating training plans.
What part of sport psychology interests you the most?
How would you support an athlete facing stress?
This module helps you understand how sport psychology can boost athletes’ performance and support their mental health.
You’ll learn how motivation, goal-setting, and confidence help athletes achieve their best.
You’ll start by figuring out what athletes need from an initial assessment, then create and try out ways to support them.
You’ll also learn how to deal with challenges like stress in high-pressure scenarios, motivational strategies, and tricky ethical dilemmas.
Using real case studies and role-play, you’ll explore how psychology and sport science work together.
You’ll also focus on taking care of your own wellbeing, with an emphasis on self-care and professional supervision.
This module builds on previous learning about how the body moves.
You’ll take a closer look at how muscles, joints, and nerves work – especially how they affect injuries, recovery, and performance in sport and exercise.
You’ll learn how to measure and study movement in real sporting situations.
You’ll use tools like video and GPS tracking to collect useful data and give clear feedback to help people move better and perform at their best.
You’ll even get to work with real sports teams, using your new skills to study their performance and help coaches make smart decisions.
This module will bring together everything you’ve learned to complete two projects.
One is a research project, and the other is a work placement project.
Both help you connect your academic skills to real-life problems and give you the chance to showcase your knowledge and skills.
For your research project, you’ll choose a topic you care about, plan how to study it, collect your own data, and share your findings.
You’ll even present your work at a Research Conference –possibly in front of the public and future employers.
For your placement project, you’ll work with a real employer on a problem that matters in the workplace.
You’ll agree on a project, complete it during your placement, and reflect on what you’ve learned and how it helps your future career.
In this module, you’ll explore how nutrition and the body work together to boost sports and exercise performance.
You’ll learn how food, supplements, and different environments – like heat, cold, or high altitudes – can affect how we train, compete, and recover.
Ever wondered what athletes should eat before a big game, or how training in the heat changes your body?
You’ll look at topics like how protein helps build muscle, how to fuel your body during competition, and how exercise in extreme weather affects performance.
You’ll also explore how different groups – like child athletes, older adults, female athletes, or people with disabilities – have unique nutrition and health needs.
You’ll get hands-on by designing ways to test how different factors impact health and performance.
You’ll also learn to explain complex ideas in a simple, and clear way.
This module helps you turn psychology theory into real-world practice.
You’ll learn how to handle tricky mental challenges that come up in sport and exercise – like staying calm under pressure or helping others stay motivated and confident.
You’ll build on the skills you learned earlier in your degree and start using them like a pro.
You’ll explore how coaching, psychology, and athlete wellbeing all connect.
Want to be a performance coach or study sport psychology further?
This module will help you get there.
You’ll learn by working on real-life examples – like how to support a team during tough times or help an athlete bounce back from setbacks.
You’ll use case studies, role plays, and group work to design plans that truly help others.
How would you help an athlete struggling with confidence or pressure?
How would you feel about helping someone improve their performance or avoid injury?
This module builds on what you’ve already learned about how the body moves and how strength and conditioning help with performance.
You’ll dive deeper into biomechanics – the science of how the body moves – and learn how to use special equipment to carry out real tests and experiments.
You’ll look at strength and conditioning through a biomechanics lens, exploring how movement affects performance, injury, and health.
You’ll study how the body adapts to different types of training and how biomechanics plays a role in everyday tasks, sport, and recovery.
You’ll take on the role of a biomechanics expert by working with a real client.
You’ll carry out a full movement assessment, give a clear diagnosis, and share useful feedback – just like you would if working for a top sports institute or professional team.
In this module, you’ll learn how to safely support people with long-term health conditions through exercise.
You’ll practise how to check if someone is ready to exercise, understand their health needs, and plan safe and helpful workouts based on science.
You’ll also build skills in caring for people in a kind and supportive way.
You’ll explore conditions like heart disease, asthma, diabetes, obesity, arthritis, and even cancer.
You’ll also look at how mental health affects physical health and learn how to help people make healthy changes that last.
You’ll work on your communication skills so you can work well with patients and other health professionals.
You’ll also learn how to analyse research and apply it in your own practice.
Our City Campus features a state-of-the-art facility called CitySpace.
Students use this facility for teaching and the space includes:
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for CitySpace.
Used by students across a range of Sport courses, our Clinical Biomechanics lab contains equipment that measures motion, muscle activity and forces on the body during high intensity sports and the activities of daily living.
Facilities include:
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Clinical Biomechanics Lab.
This lab is used for advanced clinical health and exercise research, with gas analysis, cycle ergometers and treadmills for fitness testing.
The AlterG© treadmill allows assessment of running in a low gravity environment to understand physical responses during rehabilitation and training.
There is also an environmental chamber within the teaching space which is used to assess physiological response to heat, humidity and altitude.
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for the Human Performance Lab:
Human Performance Lab 013 accessibility guide
Human Performance Lab 013A accessibility guide
The facility is used for cardiovascular exercise testing and health and fitness related components.
You will have access to gas analysis; cycle ergometers for fitness testing and a variety of blood marker testing.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Human Physiology Lab.
Across the Sunderland area you'll have access to the following sports facilities:
Anatomy is taught by experienced staff in a specialist clinical lab using skeletons, anatomical models, Anatomage Table, 3D software, online material and human subjects.
You will learn techniques for sports injury rehabilitation, including the use of sports massage and ultrasound equipment.
Access to our Anatomy building enables students to visualize the human structure in real life through human cadavers.
You will also examine balance and stability using our Biodex® stability and balance trainer and assess strength imbalances using our sophisticated Biodex® dynamometer and new BTE Primus® rehabilitation equipment.
You can investigate how new techniques such as thermal imaging are being used in injury assessment with Flir® IR cameras.
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for Darwin Building .
The John Dawson Sciences Complex is based on our City Campus.
It has benefitted from a multi-million-pound investment in modern facilities in recent years and continues to develop as our health sciences offer grows.
It is the central hub for many of our health sciences courses and is made up of a variety of teaching and learning spaces, including labs, problem-based learning classrooms, and facilities that encourage interprofessional learning.
A lot of academic staff offices are based here, with an open-door policy in place.
Sunderland's outstanding facilities include laboratories with the latest fitness equipment and technology.
We don’t currently display entry requirements for India.
Please contact the Student Admin team on studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk or 0191 515 3154.
Entry requirements are provided for guidance only and we may offer you an entrance interview which will help us determine your eligibility for your chosen degree.
This enables us to consider making you an offer if you're perhaps a mature student who's been out of education for a period of time, or you've gained significant knowledge and skills through employment rather than traditional education.
Eligible entry qualifications: If you're unsure of whether you think you might be suitable for the course, please contact us.
**If you've studied for a GCSE which has a numerical grade, you'll need to achieve a grade 4 or above.
Equivalent alternative qualifications are also accepted, such as Level 2 Key Skills in Communication and Application of Number.
If English isn't your first language, please see our English language requirements .
If you're unsure of whether you think you might be suitable for the course, please contact us.
The annual fee for this course is £9,535 if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
Undergraduate fees are set according to rules from Government in line with forecast inflation.
The fee for your first year of study for 2025/26 will be £9,535.
You will pay tuition fees for every year of study.
Fees may increase every year based on the Retail Price Index.
If you're a full-time UK/Irish/EU settled/EU pre-settled student, you may be eligible to receive financial support to cover your fees for the full four years.
UK and EU settled students may also be eligible to receive a maintenance loan.
Please note, this course isn't available to international students.
Learn more about settled status, pre-settled status, special discounts, visa requirements, and Common Travel Area (CTA) agreements for the Republic of Ireland applicants in our Help and Advice article .
Take a look at the scholarships and bursaries that may be available to you.
This information was correct at the time of publication.
Sunderland’s strong links with regional and national sporting organisations, local hospitals and authorities, and health and fitness centres helps you get to know potential future employers.
You will also gain first-hand experience of how Sport and Exercise Sciences can be applied in working environments.
There is a major focus on career planning for both employment and further study at all stages in the Sport and Exercise Sciences course.
You will be prepared for supervised experience, the initial stage in the process towards becoming a professionally recognised Sport and Exercise Scientist accredited through the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES).
We are working towards reaccreditation from the professional development body for the Sport and Physical activity sector in the UK, to award vocational qualifications (related to the health and fitness industry) to students who successfully complete specific modules and additional assessments.
Potential employers for graduates of this course include national sports associations, sports and leisure companies, recreation services, local authorities, health bodies including the NHS, schools and colleges.
During the course, you will be encouraged and supported to obtain National Governing Body Coaching Awards to support future development in the area.
This will allow you to develop the skills required to become an effective coach across a range of activities.
Job roles include the following (some require further training):
Contact the Student Helpline for further information about studying at the University of Sunderland:
0191 515 3000
student.helpline@sunderland.ac.uk
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing.
Page last updated:  21 August 2025
We aim to provide clear, accurate and timely information to prospective and current students.
We continuously review and enhance course content in consultation with our students and the information provided on our website is the latest available.
If you have received an offer from us to start a course, we will communicate any important changes to you in writing.
We will always seek to ensure that our prospective students are fully aware of the basis on which they are accepting an offer.
All UK universities and colleges display Key Information Sets (KIS) on their undergraduate courses.
The KIS gives you a quick overview of some standard information about a course and has a link to more detailed information on Discover Uni (formerly Unistats).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences/undergraduate-sport-exercise-sciences:
Our Sport and Exercise Sciences course integrates psychology, physiology, anatomy, biomechanics, client assessment, and nutrition.
It’s endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES), which means the course meets professional standards.
This course is a great choice if you're interested in improving sports performance, working in health and fitness, or focusing on nutrition linked to sport and exercise.
Teaching is based on a CASES-accredited approach, which means you’ll gain real, hands-on experience through practical activities and assessments.
This helps you build the skills and confidence you need for a successful career and puts you in a strong position to apply for professional accreditation after you graduate.
The course has been designed with employers in mind.
It balances theory with practical experience to make sure you finish each year with the right knowledge and skills to move forward.
You’ll be able to work with a wide range of people, from athletes to everyday clients, and with organisations such as sports clubs, charities, the NHS, and community groups.
Throughout the course, you’ll work with real clients as part of your learning.
These experiences are built into your modules, helping you become confident, capable, and ready to work independently in your chosen field by the time you graduate.
At Sunderland, you’ll learn through a course that’s closely linked to the sports industry.
This includes guest speakers, visits to sports organisations, networking with professionals, and hands-on work placements.
The course focuses on real, practical experience.
You'll learn by doing, with tasks and assessments based on real-life teaching situations.
The modules are designed to meet industry standards and help you build both personal and professional skills.
You’ll be taught by experts who are qualified sport and exercise scientists and international-level coaches.
There’s a strong focus on preparing you for your career.
You’ll take part in a work placement every year, giving you valuable experience and boosting your employability.
You’ll also learn the theory behind sports science and get the chance to apply it using our top-level sports science facilities – so you’ll graduate with both academic knowledge and practical skills.
Taught classes include tutorials, seminars, workshops, and laboratory and sports hall practicals.
Assessments include lab reports, porfolios, problem-based learning tasks, OSPEs, timed practicals, case studies, and client reports.
Our typical offer is:
If you don't meet our standard entry requirements, you can take one of the foundation pathways at our partners ONCAMPUS Sunderland.
Find out more information and whether your course is eligible on our ONCAMPUS page .
If your qualification is not listed above, please contact the Student Administration team at studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk for further advice.
Our admissions policy uses a range of flexible options to support you to study with us.
This may include a reduced offer of up to 16 UCAS tariff points, (or equivalent).
Find out if you are eligible .
You will also be subject to Safeguarding and Fitness to Practise procedures.
Prior to admission, a Disclosure and Barring service (DBS) check is required for UK students.
For overseas students, a Certificate of Good Conduct from the domicile police force is required.
This is then superseded by a DBS check which must be obtained six months after starting the course.
In addition, an Occupational Health check will be undertaken by the University's Occupational Health partner.
If English is not your first language, please see our English language requirements .
Is your qualification not displaying here?
For international qualifications, search our full list of international entry requirements for this course.
The annual, full-time fee for this course is:
*Undergraduate fees are set according to rules from Government in line with forecast inflation.
You may need to buy some study materials like books and basic supplies.
There are also a few optional costs depending on the activities you choose to take part in:
All Sport and Exercise students are expected to wear navy blue tops for practical sessions.
You can use your Study Plus allowance to buy personalised sportswear with your course name, get plain kit from CitySpace, or buy your own from outside the University.
Read more about EU fees and funding in our Help and Advice article .
There is a major focus on career planning for both employment and further study at all stages in the Sport and Exercise Science course.
You will be prepared for supervised experience, the initial stage in the process towards becoming a professionally recognised Sport and Exercise Scientist endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES).
As part of your course, you’ll have the chance to gain extra qualifications that match industry standards.
By the end of your first year, you’ll complete modules that meet the requirements for:
By the end of your second year, you’ll complete modules that meet the requirements for:
This will also allow you to apply for the IUSCA Level 2 Certified Strength and Conditioning Instructor qualification.
You’ll be supported by the University’s Centre for Graduate Prospects, including help from the Digital Incubator and Start-Up Sunderland to boost your career.
Potential employers for graduates of this course include sports clubs, national sports associations, sports and leisure companies, recreation services, local authorities, health bodies including the NHS, schools and colleges.
Many of our graduate sport and exercise scientists go on to provide clinical support services to health or medical professionals working in a variety of specialities.
During the course, you will be encouraged and supported to begin the process of supervised experience through CASES.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-engineering-management:
Students must apply via one of the following online application forms:-
If you are applying for this course for January 2026, click Apply Now
Course starts: 19 January 2026 Apply now
Current undergraduate students of the University of Sunderland, please use this apply link Apply now
Build on your technical background while adding business and management skills, including project control and quality optimisation.
Develop the combination of technical knowledge and management expertise that are required to successfully deliver multi-million pound projects.
Equip yourself to lead a technical team to deliver on time and on budget.
Upcoming start dates
You will build on your technical background while adding business and management skills.
These skills include project control, supply chain management, risk management and quality optimisation.
You will also develop the ‘soft’ skills of working with others and leading projects, including expertise in negotiation and collaboration, effective communication, handling conflict and politics, and managing change.
This course involves a real-world project that is supported by a sponsor and will include both a research and a practical element.
It is an opportunity to impress not only your academic assessors but also potential employers.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, group work, research, discussion groups, seminars, tutorials and practical laboratory sessions.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this Masters requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment methods include individual written reports and research papers, practical assignments and the Masters project.
The course duration for September entry is 12 months.
If you choose to start the course in January, the duration will be 15 months.
Develop the building blocks of successful project management.
Study topics such as project selection, feasibility, whole life costing and sustainability; the impact of risk, quality and people; effective monitoring and control to ensure successful delivery; and the use of project management software.
Undertake an extensive case study/business game to develop your skills in team working and decision making.
Explore how organisation and systems can be understood to help facilitate their design, change and management.
Investigate various methods of organisational analysis and modelling, including both hard and soft-system modelling.
Learn about the importance of commercial and contractual issues in projects.
Cover the role of Strategy and Strategic Management, Business Plans, Legal Issues, Commercial Relationships and Financial Management and Tendering.
Explore the role of leadership and people management in ensuring a successful outcome to a project.
Investigate the issues and strategies in managing risk and quality and how these can be deployed to provide a successful project outcome.
Explore some of the issues facing modern engineering operations to include operations management and improvement, lean manufacturing techniques, supply chain management and development, maintenance strategy and development and condition monitoring and predictive maintenance.
Using your research and critical analysis skills, draw on the knowledge you have gained during the course of the programme to address a real engineering problem or research question at the forefront of the discipline.
There are 25 stations for electronics, each with its own power supply, oscilloscope, signal generator, multi-meter and a PC with software to support circuit analysis/design, and programming of PLCs and microcontrollers.
There are also numerous pre-built circuit boards to aid in the study of analogue electronics, digital electronics and logic, as well as hardware rigs for the study of CAN Bus systems.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Electronics lab.
We’ve got thousands of books and e-books on engineering topics, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
We also subscribe to a comprehensive range of print and electronic journals so you can access the most reliable and up-to-date academic and industry articles.
Some of the most important sources for engineers include:
The Product Development Lab is used by students across all years, including masters and PhD research students.
There are no formal classes taught in here; it is instead used for project work outside of set teaching time.
In here you can find: a 3D printer; Trotec laser and engraving machine; CNC lathe; CNC router; CNC milling machine; pillar drills; bandsaws; as well as various powered hand tools.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Product Development Lab.
You will be based at the David Goldman Technology Centre.
Our specialist labs include:
• Product Development Lab • Electronics Lab • Automation Lab • Project Lab • Material Characterisation Lab • Formulation Lab • Thermofluids Lab • Mechanical Engineering Lab
You will have access to a range of industry leading technologies at the Industry Centre, the home of the Institute of Automotive and Manufacturing Advanced Practice as well as access to industrial standard software to help prepare you for a future career in a digital context.
If you already hold a postgraduate qualification, please see our Applying for additional postgraduate degrees Help and Advice article .
We usually require applicants to hold a 2:2 honours degree in an engineering discipline or an equivalent professional qualification.
We will consider applicants with a wide range of relevant experience.
2025/26 fees are:
If you're unsure whether you qualify as a UK, EU, or international student, find out more in our Help and Advice article .
See the scholarships and bursaries that may be available to you.
This course equips you for a wide range of engineering management roles throughout the engineering and manufacturing sector.
Employers recognise the value of qualifications from Sunderland, which has been training engineers and technicians for over 100 years.
As part of the course, you will undertake a project that tackles a real-world problem.
These projects are often sponsored by external clients and we encourage and support you to find your own client and sponsor.
This relevant work experience will enhance your skills, build up a valuable network of contacts and further boost your employability.
Potential management roles include project manager, design engineer, manufacturing engineer, mechanical engineer, electrical engineer, product engineer, and maintenance engineer.
Engineering management provides good career prospects with salaries ranging from £30,000 up to around £80,000.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Technology .
Page last updated:  20 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/undergraduate-pharmacy:
Become an expert in the design, development and therapeutic use of medicines.
Graduate and develop a fascinating and rewarding career, both holistically and financially.
Our highly-regarded MPharm course is designed to ensure you develop the necessary knowledge, skills, and professional attributes to practice as a pharmacist.
The course lasts four years and you'll graduate as a Master of Pharmacy.
The MPharm is the only undergraduate qualification in the UK which leads to professional registration as a pharmacist with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
All newly qualified pharmacists will now be independent prescribers at the point of registration.
There is a huge demand for pharmacist independent prescribers, with a range of opportunities within primary care, secondary care and specialist sectors.
We provide placements across all these settings to supplement our onsite teaching and simulation activities, while giving you experience of the range of career opportunities available to you.
The teaching on our course integrates the fundamental pharmaceutical, chemical, and biological sciences with clinical therapeutics and patient-focused clinical skills.
We have state-of-the-art facilities to enable the simulation of healthcare settings, where we teach alongside patients and their carers, and other healthcare students during interprofessional learning sessions.
Most of our clinical staff continue to work in practice as prescribers alongside their academic work, ensuring the currency and relevance of our teaching for the pharmacists of the future.
You'll be taught mainly in small seminar groups, where you'll explore clinical therapeutics, the management of disease, prescribing skills, and clinical skills.
You'll also work in small learning groups during practice laboratory classes and dispensing classes.
Larger group or online lectures cover key principles and are delivered by experienced and research active academics in the field.
You'll study alongside student doctors, nurses, paramedics, and physiotherapists in interdisciplinary learning opportunities.
We involve patients, their carers, and the general public in many of our teaching and simulation sessions.
We provide a longitudinal placement model in all four years of the course, in a variety of settings including community and hospital, to general practice and more specialist sectors, such as within a prison or hospice.
Assessment methods include examinations, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs), assignments, essays, reports and presentations.
Develop a fundamental understanding of the scientific principles which underpin the design and formulation of medicinal products.
Establish the ability to identify and explain the underlying concepts of pharmaceutical chemistry in relation to drug design, including chemical structure, functional groups reactivity and stability.
In addition, develop an understanding of the properties of pharmaceutical molecules and biological macromolecules in relation to drug function.
Identify and explain the physiochemical properties of active pharmaceutical ingredients and excipients and how those properties influence the formulation, quality, efficacy, and safety of medicines.
Gain an introduction to anatomy and the functions of the various body systems.
Learn the importance of the inter-relationship between these systems for the maintenance of normal body function.
This will include cell biology and a consideration of metabolic processes.
Study the principles of microbiology, including the normal microbial flora of the body as well as an outline to microbial pathogens.
You’ll discuss the principles of pharmacology in terms of drug receptor interactions and the second messenger molecules that are generated in response to membrane receptor occupation.
Consider the role of the pharmacist and their involvement in the care of patients as part of the multidisciplinary team in different sectors of pharmacy practice.
This module will also introduce you to the pharmacy workplace and you’ll undertake a longitudinal placement in a community pharmacy supported by a pharmacist supervisor.
Develop clinical skills in the assessment of patients with regards to physical examination and communication and consultation.
You’ll also be taught the relevance and importance of pharmaceutical numeracy and how this is applied to patient care.
Gain knowledge of public health and the role of the pharmacist in the promotion of healthy lifestyles.
An exploration of infection control and antimicrobial stewardship is integrated with the underpinning scientific principles you’ll learn in other modules.
Develop knowledge and skills around the legal and ethical frameworks which support the prescribing, administration, and supply of medication in the UK.
Continue to develop the professional attributes required of a pharmacist as well as study Pharmacy Law and other relevant legislation including those relating to the Responsible Pharmacist, data protection, and equality.
Acquire practical experience of the supply of medication in simulated pharmacy sessions which aim to support you to develop the skills needed to critically review prescription orders, take appropriate action, and communicate with other members of the healthcare team where appropriate.
To safeguard patient safety, pharmaceutical numeracy skills continue to be developed in this module.
A longitudinal placement within a community pharmacy will be undertaken, and you’ll continue to gain experience of the pharmacy working environment to apply the knowledge and skills you have gained during the module.
Focus on the diagnosis and management of diseases of the cardiovascular system, alongside the renal system and ocular diseases.
Expand on the fundamental scientific principles learned during year 1 of the course and understand how these underpin the safe and effective management of these disease states.
Consider the concept of public health and how social, economic, and political factors influence the development, progression and often treatment of cardiovascular diseases.
You’ll learn how pharmacists can improve health outcomes not only with pharmacological treatment but also by the promotion of healthy lifestyles and other public health interventions.
Explore the diagnosis and management of diseases of the respiratory and gastrointestinal systems.
Fundamental scientific principles learned during year 1 of the course will be further discussed and developed.
How these principles influence the safe and effective management of disease states will be considered.
Examine the occurrence, causes, origins, and development (epidemiology, aetiology, pathogenesis, and pathophysiology) of respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases.
You’ll learn to critically assess the evidence base for pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions used in the management of these diseases.
Develop clinical skills around the assessment of patients with particular reference to examination of the respiratory and gastrointestinal systems.
Undertake your own research project under the supervision of an academic supervisor.
Apply the knowledge of research methodologies and statistics developed earlier in the course to a piece of independent research.
You’ll be given one specific area of pharmacy or pharmaceutical science to work on aligned with the area of research interest or practice expertise of your academic supervisor.
Gain exposure to hospital pharmacy, community pharmacy or primary care (wherever possible), allowing you to be actively involved in real-world research with potential to improve patient care.
Many projects are co-supervised using regional contacts and are facilitated through links to the NHS, community pharmacy, and local industry.
If appropriate, your project could be submitted for publication or to professional conferences.
Focus on diabetes: occurrence, causes, disease progression, diagnosis, and management with particular reference to prescribing and administration of antidiabetic drugs and insulin.
Consider the prevention of the development of type 2 diabetes with reference to the wider role of the pharmacist in health promotion and chronic disease management.
Study other endocrine disorders, such as those affecting the thyroid, adrenocortical, hypothalamic, pituitary and sex hormones.
Explore conditions of the genito-urinary system: issues related to men’s health, major gynaecological disorders, and infections of the genito-urinary system including sexually transmitted diseases are covered.
Consider specific patient groups such as those who are pregnant, those using hormone replacement therapies in both menopause/perimenopause and in the treatment of gender dysphoria.
Transgender-friendly patient care is also discussed to help raise awareness of the specific issues this patient group may face when accessing healthcare.
Consider abnormalities of bone metabolism, such as osteoporosis and musculoskeletal disorders such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, connective tissue disorders and gout, along with the role of drug treatment in their management.
Explore therapeutic and non-therapeutic approaches to pain management, gaining skills to assess a patient’s pain and learn how shared decision making is involved in this, as well as developing skills around the safe prescribing and administration of analgesics and associated therapies.
Legal and ethical frameworks which should be considered when making prescribing decisions to manage pain will be discussed in detail.
The potential for the development of dependence on analgesics will be explored as well as the support for patients who experience health issues related to substance misuse and addiction.
Study acute and chronic conditions affecting the central nervous system including: depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, ADHD, insomnia, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, and epilepsy.
Discuss the therapeutic treatment, drug administration and monitoring involved to ensure patient safety utilised in the management of these conditions.
Dermatology, in terms of identification of common skin conditions and management of minor infections, will also be taught.
You’ll be exposed to substantial experiential learning in the form of clinical placements in local hospitals.
Gain the clinical knowledge, diagnostic skills, and professional attributes to enable you to independently prescribe from the point of registration.
Learn about clinical decision making and the psychological, physiological, and physical impact of prescribing under relevant legal frameworks.
Develop an appreciation of capacity and consent and use advanced communication skills while working with patients to help address health inequalities.
Revisit and build heavily upon prior knowledge from earlier years of the course with a focus of application of knowledge in the context of patients with multiple co-morbidities, considering wider factors such as shared care decision making, deprescribing and sustainability of medicines.
Apply previously acquired clinical examination skills of each of the key body systems when working with patients.
You’ll be challenged to critique and interpret the clinical findings of investigations conducted by both yourself and other health professionals to effectively diagnose and decide the most appropriate course of action.
Develop advanced understanding of cancer, immunological disease, and infection to support clinical, therapeutic decision making in these areas.
Revisit the cell cycle which was first introduced in year 1 to highlight the characteristics of cancer cells and introduce approaches to management and potential targets for drug treatment.
Demonstrate advanced communication skills when working with patients with complex needs and when facing potentially life-threatening illness.
Helen McArdle House is based on our City Campus and has benefitted from a multi-million pound investment in modern facilities in recent years.
Many of our healthcare courses are taught here, including Nursing, Paramedic Science, and Healthcare Sciences.
The building is made up of a variety of teaching and learning spaces, including mock hospital wards, OSCE suites, the Patient Diagnostic Suite, Mental Health and Wellbeing Suite, and seminar and IT classrooms.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Helen McArdle House.
The Living Lab boasts a unique immersive simulation room, that allows participants to experience a range of simulated scenarios in a safe environment.
The space is designed to make scenarios feel as close to reality as possible, to enable students to practise their clinical skills safely.
An adjacent debrief room allows groups to observe the scenario in the immersive suite through a live stream (projected onto TV screens) and provide peer feedback and group discussion following the completion of the scenario.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Fleming Building.
The University boasts a collection of more than 430,000 books in total, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
There are nearly 9,000 journal titles, mostly in electronic format.
Each year the University invests around £1 million in new resources.
As a student, you will have access to a huge range of online databases such as:
British National Formulary : Compiled with the advice of clinical experts, the British National Formulary (BNF) provides up-to-date guidance on prescribing, dispensing and administering medicines.
The British Pharmacopoeia : The British Pharmacopoeia (BP) is the authoritative collection of quality standards for UK medicines and is an essential reference for anyone involved in pharmaceutical R&D, manufacture, testing and regulation.
CINAHL : CINAHL with Full Text is the world’s most comprehensive source of full text for nursing and allied health journals, providing full text for more than 600 journals indexed in CINAHL.
The Cochrane Library : The Cochrane Library is a collection of databases that contain high-quality, independent evidence to inform healthcare decision-making.
PubMed Central : PubMed Central is a service of the US National Library of Medicine that includes over 25 million citations from MEDLINE and other life science journals for biomedical articles and includes links to full text articles and other related resources.
ScienceDirect : ScienceDirect is a leading full-text scientific database offering journal articles and book chapters covering physical sciences, life sciences, health sciences, and social sciences and humanities.
The Dispensary is used by Pharmacy students across all year groups, including Pre-Registration students.
The Dispensary has industry-standard kit such as labelling software, access to pharmacy reference sources (online and paper-based resources) and appropriate drug storage facilities which comply with relevant legislation and good practice requirements.
There are a range of simulation manikins used across most of our healthcare courses, giving you the opportunity to apply your training in a realistic, yet safe, setting.
Our manikins range from various SimMan patient simulators (SimMan 3G, SimMan ALS, Sim Junior and Sim Baby to name a few) to CAE Apollo and Caesar manikins, to anatomically realistic SimBodies and lower-fidelity simulation manikins.
SimMan and Apollo manikins can demonstrate realistic physiological behaviour, including blood pressure, a pulse, drug recognition technology (in SimMan 3G), and each model can be pre-programmed with various medical scenarios.
Sunderland's exceptional facilities include state-of-the-art equipment for pharmaceutics, medicinal chemistry and pharmacology.
A Levels must include Chemistry and one other science subject at Grade B or above excluding General Studies.
We accept T Level Science only with an overall grade of Merit or Distinction.
We accept Access to Higher Education Diploma in Science which must include Distinctions in Chemistry and one other science.
We recognise that some applicants may have varied learning backgrounds and hold alternative qualifications, e.g.
previous degree at 2:1 or above.
Please contact us to discuss if you are unsure whether your qualifications would be suitable for entry.
If English is not your first language, you should have an IELTS (or equivalent) score of at least 7.0, with a minimum of 6.5 in each band.
All offers are subject to both successful performance at interview and passing mandatory compliance checks.
The interview consists of multiple mini-interviews (MMIs) and a numeracy assessment.
The MMIs are scenario-based to assess personal behaviours and attributes, as well as professional awareness.
Compliance checks include a DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service), occupational health check, and self-declaration of health.
These are essential as pharmacy is a regulated healthcare profession.
Fees are:
Most of our students go on to work in community pharmacy, general practice, or within a hospital.
Pharmacists usually begin their careers in more generalised roles, with opportunities to become more specialised, for example, as a consultant pharmacist, coming with experience.
Some graduates chose to work in industrial pharmaceuticals or progress on to research degrees, such as a PhD.
Pharmacy is an excellent option for a portfolio career, with many pharmacists choosing to split their working week across different roles.
Financial rewards compare favourably with most other professions and there are excellent career prospects.
Currently, there is virtually no unemployment of qualified pharmacists.
On graduation as a Master of Pharmacy (MPharm), you'll need to undertake a further year of postgraduate training after the end of the course to become eligible for registration as a pharmacist in the UK.
This is known as the Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Year and involves you working under the supervision of a qualified pharmacist.
Applying for a training position is via a system called ORIEL.
We provide help and guidance in your third year of the MPharm course to prepare you for this process.
We've never had an MPharm graduate who has not obtained a Foundation Training Year position and we'll support you in finding one (although we are unable to guarantee one).
We also offer a course called the Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Programme to support you during this year.
On successful completion of the Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Year, you'll be required to pass the national registration assessment set by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) before you are eligible to start your career as a pharmacist.
Although the MPharm is primarily a route to becoming a pharmacist, it can also open up many other career pathways where expertise in medicines is vital.
Examples of other career options include pharmaceutical research and working in the Research and Development industry.
We have well-established links with professionals working in all the main branches of pharmacy.
Through these links we organise a programme of guest speakers who will help you relate academic theory to current trends and issues.
Many of the staff teaching on this course are practitioners from hospital, community, and primary care backgrounds.
This ensures that our course is employer-led, and means that you'll have regular contact with the ‘real world’ of the pharmacy profession.
Page last updated:  15 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/midwifery-practice:
Support women/persons throughout their journey from conception to birth and beyond.
Gain in-depth skills and knowledge of pregnancy, labour, birth, and early parenthood.
Graduate with the qualifications needed to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council as a registered midwife.
Midwifery is a rewarding, dynamic, and highly-skilled profession.
The role of the midwife is central in ensuring that women/persons have a safe and life-enhancing experience throughout pregnancy, labour, and the first few weeks after birth.
As a midwife, you'll also be responsible for making sure newborn infants and families have the best possible start in life.
On the BSc (Hons) Midwifery Practice course, you’ll follow a woman/persons-centred approach to maternity care by applying a biopsychosocial model to enrich your practice as a midwife, tackling health inequalities and providing evidence-based practice.
This midwifery degree has a focus on mental health within maternity and the role of the midwife in supporting women/persons and families with mental health issues.
Clinical placements will make up 50% of your time on this midwifery course, in a range of settings both in and out of hospital, under the supervision of registered practitioners.
You'll also have regular contact with our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants who all have experience as patients or carers.
You'll have five years from starting the course to complete and register with the NMC.
Studying on the BSc (Hons) Midwifery Practice course will allow you to learn through a variety of methods including lectures, seminars, group work, clinical skills simulation, online/e-learning, and tutorials.
50% of your time over the duration of this midwifery course will be in a clinical environment, allowing you to directly apply theory to practice.
You'll experience a wide variety of clinical settings across midwifery services at any one of our NHS partner Trusts and mental health Trusts (p lacements are limited so you'll be expected to travel to ensure you gain experience in a wide range of areas).
This will give you a taste of what to expect once you qualify as a midwife.
Assessment methods on this midwifery degree include written essays, examinations, OSCEs, presentations, VIVAs, clinical placements, and the completion of your Midwifery Ongoing Record of Achievement (MORA).
Gain insight into the role of the midwife, from professionalism to competency.
Study the legal, ethical and professional frameworks which underpin practice.
Develop the knowledge and communication skills required to work with women/persons, families and interdisciplinary teams in practice environments.
Explore a range of science disciplines such as anatomy, physiology, genetics,and pharmacology, and learn how these are applied across the reproductive health continuum.
Examine psychological and cognitive changes and the sociobiological impacts for the parents in the perinatal period.
Learn about a variety of maternity settings including community, hospital,and home care.
Study equality, disability, and mental health to gain an in-depth understanding of the compassion, respect, and empathy required to provide dignified care for women/persons and their families.
Learn the foundation skills required for your first-year placement.
Gain experience of universal midwifery care within a variety of settings from antenatal to postnatal care.
Develop your understanding of mental health and mental ill health, including the effects this can have upon women/persons, foetuses, newborn infants and their families.
Examine the additional care needs that may arise both as a result of the childbearing process and pre-existing medical conditions from a physical, mental and social aspect.
Explore risk and methods of risk assessment in relation to clinical decision-making, problem-solving and appropriate referral.
Consider the importance of providing continuity of care/carer and providing evidence-based information to help women/persons make informed choices about their own, and their baby’s care.
Explore sources of knowledge, information and evidence which inform midwifery practice.
Gain the skills, knowledge and critical understanding of the relationship between evidence-based practice and women/persons and their family’s physical, mental health and wellbeing.
Use reflective practice to demonstrate continuous improvement and development of yourself, the team and service delivery.
Develop an understanding of a midwife’s public health contribution to maximising wellbeing and improving mental health in women/persons, babies and families.
Examine the factors that influence physical and mental health and ill health within the wider social and political context.
Reflect upon diversity and differences within the patient population, and how this affects an individual’s worldview and experience of healthcare.
Extend your understanding of the evidence that optimises normal physiological processes for all women/persons and newborn infants, in order to promote positive outcomes and prevent complications.
Support women/persons and their families to make informed choices surrounding their care, taking greater responsibility for yourself and your role within the interdisciplinary and multiagency teams.
Enhance your communication and relationship building skills with women/persons, families, and colleagues.
Learn how to become a positive role model and support families through decision making and care provision.
Explore maternity care within the context of contemporary health and social care policy.
Engage in academic dialogue on a chosen aspect of safe and effective midwifery care for women/persons and their families.
This module will help you develop into a skilled midwife who can successfully engage in lifelong learning, working in partnership with women and leading practice as a member of a multi-disciplinary team.
You'll have opportunities to consolidate your knowledge and skills with increasing autonomy and lead care for a caseload of up to five women.
Working within your scope of practice, this will ensure that the care you offer to all women/persons, newborn infants, and their families has a woman/person-centred approach and prioritises the ethos of compassion, professionalism, and safe care provision.
The module will integrate biological, psychosocial theory, and midwifery care delivered in a range of practice environments, preparing you for your career as a midwife.
As the latest addition to our Nursing and Midwifery courses, here, you can explore everything you need to know about the BSc (Hons) Midwifery Practice degree – from the skills you’ll gain to the careers you can look forward to when you graduate.
Find out more about our Midwifery degree
Read more about our fantastic facilities
Find out which nursing our midwifery course is most suitable for you
Our Children’s Ward is located in Helen McArdle House and mirrors a real life children’s ward, providing the opportunity to practise skills specific to caring for children.
Decorated with colourful wall murals and equipped with cots and medical equipment specifically for children, the Children’s Ward is an ideal learning environment.
Baby and child interactive manikins are used to simulate scenarios that feel as close to real life as possible and enable the development of skills such as bathing and feeding a newborn, and providing intensive and critical care to children across the age spectrum.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Children's Ward.
The Mental Health Ward is designed to feel like a real Mental Health Ward, with bedrooms, a day room, seclusion room and treatment room, and is suitable to run a range of mental health scenarios.
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for Helen McArdle House .
The University of Sunderland offers modern and well-equipped facilities at The John Dawson Sciences Complex.
Enhanced Project Qualification in a relevant subject will also be considered.
If you already have a degree (minimum 2.2 at full honours) or your qualification is not listed above, you'll be classed as a mature student.
Please note, your degree must have been obtained within the last five years for you to be considered eligible to study this course.
Your completed application form will be reviewed by our Admissions team to ensure that you have the required entry qualifications.
Your personal statement will then be assessed by our Academic Admissions tutors and, if successful, you'll be shortlisted for interview.
The selection process will include a group activity and four mini-interviews which will assess you on your values, problem-solving, and communication skills.
Fitness to practise Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all health courses and are based on current NMC requirements.
Midwives are registered health care professionals and the ability to practise safely, effectively, and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
This means you're required to complete the following: A health declaration form.
Here, you must demonstrate that you're of good health, good character, and can satisfactorily pass occupational health screening.
In addition, you'll be required to attend an Occupational Health Assessment with an NHS Trust.
The University will, taking into account current NMC regulations, make any reasonable adjustments if required.
A self-declaration form about your conduct Obtain an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
The cost of the DBS check is covered by the University.
Instructions on how you complete these checks will be sent to you once you hold a conditional firm offer with us.
These forms are then reviewed alongside your application, and you must meet both the academic and fitness to practise requirements before you'll be given an unconditional offer.
If you're successful, you'll also need to complete an annual declaration form to confirm you're fit and there are no changes to your DBS.
Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all health courses and are based on current NMC requirements.
Fees for 2026 are tbc.
Please note, we are unable to accept international applicants.
A non-repayable grant of £5,000 and extra payments worth up to £3,000 is available to eligible home students for each year of study.
Read more about the Training Grant on The NHS Business Services Authority website .
If you currently serve (or have recently served) within the Armed Forces, then the Ministry of Defence's ELCAS scheme may be able to help cover your funding for this course.
Read more about funding for Armed Forces personnel.
The BSc (Hons) Midwifery Practice degree will make you highly employable, as you'll have the ability to work globally with a qualification that's accepted both nationally and internationally.
Job opportunities are flexible, both within the NHS and community settings, and in the UK and overseas.
There were 44,125 midwives on the NMC register in 2024, which was a 5.8% increase on the previous year.
The national midwife shortage continues, with the NHS in England short of the equivalent of around 2,500 full-time midwives.
Most midwives are employed by the NHS, working in hospitals, maternity and birthing centres, and in the community.
With your midwifery degree, you could also find employment in private hospitals, independent practices and the armed forces.
Starting salaries for newly qualified midwives are set at band 5, which starts at £29,970.
As your knowledge and expertise increase, you could move into more senior practitioner roles such as consultant midwife, where you'll have the potential to earn over £50,000 per year.
Other leadership roles within the profession include becoming a supervisor of midwives, whose role it is to protect the public and support midwives in their practice.
This is a key role that many midwives aspire to.
You could also become a team or unit manager, with responsibility for managing other staff with ongoing hands-on involvement with clients.
This could then lead to further influential roles such as head of midwifery and director of midwifery services.
After completing this midwifery course, you may choose to specialise in a particular area of perinatal care and study for further qualifications, which may involve carrying out research to help move the profession forward.
You could undertake further study to teach midwifery students at a university.
If you stay in practice, you could consider the role of consultant midwife, providing clinical leadership for midwives and other healthcare professionals across maternity services.
You could also move into neonatal nursing or health visiting.
At all levels of this midwifery course, you'll undertake unpaid clinical placements including community midwifery, antenatal and postnatal wards, delivery suite and clinics.
These occur in blocks of varying duration.
During placement, you're required to provide care for a certain number of women/persons and babies in specific categories, as required by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
These include:
You'll evidence this in the Midwifery Ongoing Record of Achievement (MORA).
Placements can take place at any of our partner Trusts.
As you may be expected to travel long distances, start your shift in the early hours, or finish your shift late at night, you could be entitled to Travel and Dual Accommodation Expenses (TDAE) which allows you to make a retrospective claim for excess travel costs and/or expenses for temporary accommodation near to the location of your placement.
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support Fund .
The Student Hub is an NHS resource to help you if you are thinking about studying healthcare, already a student, or just starting your first job as a nurse, midwife, or nursing associate.
You can use this Hub at every step of your journey, from applying for a course to getting your first job in health and care.
Each area of healthcare has its own page.
These pages will help you with studying, getting ready for work, writing job applications, preparing for interviews, learning new skills, looking after your wellbeing, and hearing from other students.
The Hub was made with help from students, the NHS, universities, and other healthcare groups, and is regularly updated to give you the most useful information.
Access the Student Hub .
Do I need work experience?
We appreciate that it is not possible to obtain work experience in the health or caring environment.
As an alternative we would recommend that you investigate the field you are interested in through online resources, professional body websites and healthcare organisations so you can demonstrate a clear understanding of the role.
What should I include in my personal statement?
Your personal statement provides a unique opportunity to express your personal qualities and attributes related to a rewarding career in midwifery.
The statement should include a clear articulation of:
For more advice on your personal statement please read our article on how to write a personal statement when you have no work experience.
What does a midwifery interview involve?
Our interviews will consist of an individual interview and group activity.
For advice on how to prepare, please read our article on how to prepare for interviews for healthcare degrees .
How many weeks holiday is there each year?
You will have seven weeks of holiday per year, with two weeks off at Christmas.
The remaining five weeks is spread across the rest of the academic year.
The timings of the holidays will vary over the three years and we do try, where possible, to align some of these to the school holidays.
You are unable to take holiday outside of these set times, but you will be provided with a three year plan on enrolment.
How far will I have to travel for my placements?
You will undertake your placements at any of our partner NHS Trusts.
Placements are limited so you will be expected to travel to ensure you gain experience in a wide range of areas.
This will allow you to enhance your clinical experience and develop into a midwife with the knowledge and skills needed to be a safe and effective practitioner.
How long are the placement shifts?
Your standard working week will be around 37.5 hours on a shift pattern which can include nights, early starts, evenings, weekends and bank holidays.
Shifts can be anywhere between 7-12 hours and the pattern can vary between trusts.
Your shifts will be confirmed four weeks prior to starting your placement.
It's not possible to fit placements around school hours and holidays.
Page last updated:  19 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences/sport-rehabilitation-therapy:
Play a key role in promoting and maintaining health and fitness through rehabilitation and conditioning, enabling people to maintain their healthy lifestyle, restore function, and in some serious cases, return to work.
Learn how to treat pain and prevent injury through hands-on treatment and design rehabilitation plans.
Meet and work with professionals in the fields of sport and exercise, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, nursing and medicine.
This course provides an exciting opportunity for students wishing to specialise in musculoskeletal rehabilitation related to sport, exercise and fitness.
Sports Rehabilitators and Therapists are involved in the management and rehabilitation of athletes and patients with musculoskeletal conditions arising from long-term medical conditions to short-term sports injuries.
A graduate sport rehabilitator is an autonomous healthcare practitioner.
In working across a wide range of settings, graduates will often be required to work with other health professionals, such as physiotherapists, or as part of multi-disciplinary teams, and will need an appreciation of subjects including anatomy, pathophysiology, psychology, physiology, biomechanics, and strength and conditioning.
This course has a high degree of practical work as well as the normal series of lectures, seminars and small group activities.
Many subjects now integrate many of these elements into one session using a 'flipped classroom' model with support from Canvas, our Virtual Learning Environment with in-built lecture capture system.
A number of modules are shared with physiotherapy to ensure consistency and quality of care.
Assessment is predominantly based on written assignments, with some exams, presentations and practical assessments, some associated with external qualifications.
You will be based in the Darwin Building which has recently benefited from a multi-million pound refurbishment and is home to our Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy courses.
State of the art equipment includes Anatomage Table, Environmental Chamber, DEXA scanner, BTE Primus Dynonometer, Vicon and XSENS 3D motion capture.
BTEC Extended National Diploma (Sport and Exercise Science, Health Science, and Applied Science preferred) DDM.
Other BTEC National Diplomas may be considered with AS or A2 Biology/Human Biology/PE at grade B.
Your completed application form will be reviewed by our Admissions Team to ensure that you have the required entry qualifications.
If you meet these requirements, then your application will be individually assessed by the Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation Admissions Tutor.
Fitness to practise Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all applicants.
This means you are required to complete the following: A health declaration form.
Here you must demonstrate that you are of good health, good character, and can satisfactorily pass occupational health screening.
A self-declaration form about your conduct.
Obtain an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
These forms are then reviewed alongside your application, and you must meet both the academic and fitness to practise requirements before you will be given an unconditional offer.
If you are successful, you will also need to complete an annual declaration form to confirm you are fit and there are no changes to your DBS.
Care experience We prefer you to have some experience of delivering care in a professional or voluntary capacity and have a reference from a current or recent employer or educational institution.
Evidence of the experience gained, understanding of the profession and a genuine, reasoned commitment to studying a professional course must be explicit in your personal statement.
Second reference You may be asked to provide additional references in terms of workplace experience/placement to support your application.
Please note this must not be the same reference you have submitted as part of your application.
Personal qualities We select students based on their knowledge, motivation, experience, values, and behaviours, not just academic ability.
You need to demonstrate the ability to: Study academic subjects at the level of the course Debate topics and issues Draw on conclusions from written material Study independently and as part of a group Use computers and technology associated with teaching, learning and assessment Interact with patients and colleagues in a caring and compassionate manner Be comfortable with hands-on techniques such as massage, both as a giver and receiver to both genders Demonstrate an understanding of and commitment to, the course If English is not your first language, you need an overall IELTS score of 7, with at least 6.5 in each band.
Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all applicants.
We prefer you to have some experience of delivering care in a professional or voluntary capacity and have a reference from a current or recent employer or educational institution.
You may be asked to provide additional references in terms of workplace experience/placement to support your application.
We select students based on their knowledge, motivation, experience, values, and behaviours, not just academic ability.
If English is not your first language, you need an overall IELTS score of 7, with at least 6.5 in each band.
The annual fee for this course is:
Learn more about settled status, pre-settled status, special discounts, visa requirements and Common Travel Area (CTA) agreements for the Republic of Ireland applicants in our Help and Advice article .
Career routes include sports clubs and teams, private musculoskeletal rehabilitation practices, GP practices, physiotherapist assistant roles and self-employment.
Graduates on BSc (Hons) Sports and Exercise Sciences have been successful in setting up their own businesses in massage therapy and personal training.
Work placements are a key element to BASRaT accreditation.
You are required to complete at least 400 hours of clinical/work placement through regional partnerships with hospital trusts, GP partnerships, sports clubs and private fitness centres, sports therapists, osteopaths and with the possibility of working with Physiotherapy and Clinical Skills students in commercial sports injury clinics.
Placements will be organised through the University placement office.
Due to the nature of some placements, especially in sport, you may be required to attend on evenings and weekends.
There may be opportunities via the student societies to attain vocational qualifications through industry-recognised awarding bodies such as Personal Trainer Awards and Massage.
These qualifications incur additional fees.
However, the University fully funds the Advanced Trauma Care Course (a requirement of BASRaT accreditation).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/business-events-management:
BA (Hons) Business and Events Management combines key business disciplines such as marketing, finance, and operations with key aspects of event management, including event design, project management, health and safety, sustainability, and the impact of events on the economy and society.
You'll also have the opportunity to gain practical experience by working on live events, projects or placements, helping you develop hands-on skills and industry connections.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, fieldwork, and e-learning.
There is an emphasis on developing independent study skills.
You'll also have opportunities to present ideas and information to other students and develop concepts and analyses within groups.
As well as assessments that count towards your final degree, there are ongoing assessments to provide feedback and consolidate your learning.
Assessment methods include written coursework, projects, presentations and practical exercises.
You can access free Wi-Fi throughout the University campus, so you can work from anywhere.
If you don't want to carry a laptop around, just use one of the University’s PCs or Macs.
We have hundreds of computers for you to use in the Murray Library, St Peter's Library, and the David Goldman Informatics Centre.
If you ever have any technical problems, just ask the friendly helpdesk team.
The St Peter’s Library contains over 31,000 books related to business, economics, management, human resources, marketing, strategy and tourism, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
You’ll be based at The Reg Vardy Centre, on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
The Reg Vardy Centre is a modern building with views of the river, and just a short walk from both the coast and Sunderland town centre.
The organisation of events like the Olympics, music festivals, and business conferences is varied and fast-moving work.
The content of our course and its opportunities for practical experience will give you an advantage when it comes to applying for stimulating jobs, and many of our graduates progress to job roles such as events organiser, festival manager, project manager, marketing executive and business director.
You'll have a broad set of transferable skills that will equip you for a much wider range of graduate-level employment.
Your course could also be a stepping stone to further study and research.
This course involves guest speakers from the Business and Events Industry, and visits to a range of event venues and initiatives.
View some of our previous field trips .
We offer opportunities to visit places that are local, regional and international.
The north-east in itself is known for its variety of coastal, countryside and city locations.
To further enhance employability, we encourage you to undertake a 48-week placement between your second and final year.
It effectively becomes a third year of a four-year course.
Placements are generally paid and are an excellent opportunity to put your learning into practice and understand the context for your new knowledge.
The contacts made during placements can also be valuable for future job offers.
We'll support you at every stage of the placement process, from finding suitable placements, to checking that everything is going well, and to making a final assessment of your performance during the placement.
A top-up entry option is available to you if you've already successfully completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation degree and wish to progress onto the final year of the honours degree course.
Topping up your existing HND or Foundation degree will take one year of full-time study and may open up future career options to you, depending on your chosen career path.
Contact us to find out how you can get credit for your previous learning and top-up your qualification to a range of degrees.
Contact the Student Helpline for further information about studying at the University of Sunderland: 0191 515 3000 student.helpline@sunderland.ac.uk
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Business, Law and Tourism

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/public-allied-health/undergraduate-physiotherapy:
Study human movement and function.
Learn how to prevent and treat disease, injury and disability.
Become a future leader in the healthcare profession.
Physiotherapy uses physical approaches in the prevention and treatment of disease, injury and disability recognising that physical, psychological, social and environmental factors may limit movement and function.
The course content is person-focused, in line with the direction of the profession.
We aim to develop well-rounded, safe and effective physiotherapists who can communicate appropriately to service users, carers, peers and other healthcare professionals.
By promoting the integration of science and practical-based knowledge and skills, we aim to develop graduates capable of practice at the highest level within all areas of the profession, who also develop essential skills for continued and lifelong learning to enhance service delivery and become future leaders.
You will be taught by a highly-skilled and motivated team with both clinical and teaching expertise.
Evidence-based practice is embedded in the course, which ensures you are taught the most current and up to date skills and knowledge.
You will learn through a variety of methods including lectures, presentations, seminars, group work, clinical simulation, self-study, practical clinical and physiotherapy skill sessions, online tutorials and problem-based learning activities.
A strong professional identity and confidence to work with various professional groups is an essential part of the course.
You will have the opportunity to work and learn alongside students from other professions and to learn about the other professions through participation in inter-professional education.
As this course leads to a professional qualification a minimum attendance level of 80% per semester is required.
Assessment is varied to reflect different styles of learning.
You will be assessed through written coursework assignments, critical reflective practice, oral presentations, poster presentations, and practical and written examinations.
You will be supported by a personal tutor who will offer support with personal and professional development.
You will also undertake a variety of practice placements (minimum of 1,000 hours) where you may be expected to work outside normal working hours including weekends.
Placements can be anywhere in the North East region.
Practice placements are arranged by academic tutors and you will be expected to travel daily or stay in local accommodation for the duration of your placement.
Practice placements occur in every year of your study and range from four to eight weeks.
Please note some placements take place outside the normal University academic calendar.
You will complete one placement in year 1 and 2, and three placements in year 3.
Build the knowledge and skills to succeed at university, in your career, and beyond.
Learn to think critically, read and write academically, reflect on your experiences, and understand how professionals make decisions based on evidence.
You’ll explore what it means to act with honesty, respect, and responsibility, while learning about professional standards and values.
You’ll also compare different types of research and learn how to judge their quality.
Throughout, you’ll track your progress in a personal e-portfolio, a space to reflect, show your growth, and shape your future professional self.
How does the human body move and what happens when it doesn’t work as it should?
Explore how the body is built and how it functions.
Learn about key parts of the body like muscles, bones, nerves, and joints, and how to assess them.
Using modern tools and hands-on practice, you’ll begin building the skills needed for physical assessments on patients.
You’ll also develop your academic and communication skills, including how to take patient histories and work with people experiencing movement difficulties.
What happens inside the body and how does it change when someone gets ill or injured?
Discover how our cells, muscles, nerves, and organs normally function, and how these change across time.
Explore what happens when things go wrong, looking at common health conditions and how they affect people physically, emotionally, and socially.
Using case studies, real patient stories, and practical tasks, you’ll start to see how therapists use this knowledge to support people in everyday clinical settings.
How can exercise help people feel better and how do you know what’s right for each person?
Build on your knowledge of the body and learn how it responds to physical activity.
Explore how to plan safe, effective exercise programmes for people with different health conditions, and how to encourage positive lifestyle changes.
You’ll develop skills to assess individual needs, design tailored exercise plans, and track progress using digital tools.
What does it mean to be part of a healthcare team?
Build on what you learnt in Professional Studies 1 and develop the skills to work well with others in healthcare.
Utilise critical reflection to gain a deeper understanding of yourself, boost your confidence, and enhance your career development.
You'll continue to use your e-portfolio, discussing it with your tutor, and start exploring how research works, including ethical issues and how evidence is used to support decisions in practice.
How can you confidently assess and support someone with a musculoskeletal problem?
Broaden your understanding of common musculoskeletal conditions seen in clinical practice.
You’ll combine your knowledge of anatomy and physiology with hands-on skills in assessment, communication, and exercise planning.
You’ll continue to develop the confidence and behaviours needed to apply your learning in real-life situations and support people effectively.
How do you support someone living with a heart or lung condition?
Build the skills to assess, plan, and evaluate care for people with cardiovascular and respiratory conditions.
You’ll focus on long-term conditions and learn to work safely and effectively across different settings, from hospital care to rehabilitation.
You'll also get an introduction to palliative care and working with children.
How do the brain and nervous system affect movement?
Build on your previous learning to explore how movement works, and how it changes with neurological conditions.
You’ll learn to observe and assess movement carefully, and use that knowledge to plan and deliver treatment.
Through hands-on practice, you'll develop your clinical reasoning, applying concepts like neurophysiology and neuroplasticity to support people at different stages of life.
Want to develop your leadership skills to be a qualified physiotherapist?
Explore how working in a team can influence healthcare services and improve patient experiences.
You’ll take part in a service development project, thinking critically about its impact, sustainability, and leadership.
Through reflection, workshops, and support from your tutor, you’ll continue to build your professional identity and update your e-portfolio in line with HCPC and CSP standards.
Want to design and carry out a research project?
Build on the idea you started in Professional Studies 2, or choose a new topic you're passionate about, as long as it's relevant to physiotherapy.
With support from a dedicated supervisor, you’ll shape a clear, realistic research question and learn how to carry out your project responsibly.
How do you make the right decisions when patients’ needs are complex and healthcare is constantly changing?
Build the confidence and skills to manage patients with multiple conditions or in unfamiliar settings.
Explore how decisions are made in real healthcare environments, linking theory with practice.
By looking at the challenges of modern healthcare, you’ll reflect on your role in the wider team and what it means to step into professional practice as a graduate physiotherapist.
What role will you play in shaping the future of physiotherapy?
Explore how modern changes in society, health, and policy are influencing physiotherapy and how the profession can lead, not just follow, that change.
You’ll examine current issues affecting practice locally, nationally, and globally, and reflect on how physiotherapy can respond to evolving population needs.
Uniquely, you’ll also help personalise part of the module content, making it relevant to your interests and the future of the profession.
The Clinical Rehabilitation Labs are practical teaching rooms that have been specifically designed for the use of Physiotherapy students, learning and applying anatomical knowledge and key skills in movement analysis with underpinning knowledge of biomechanics and kinesiology.
They are multi-purpose teaching spaces that can be used for lectures, seminars, workshops, problem-based learning, enquiry based learning, peer supported learning and examinations, and are fitted with cameras to enable practical exams to take place.
The labs are kitted out with various equipment that physiotherapists use in clinical practice, such as plinths, walking (zimmer) frames, elbow crutches and walking sticks, as well as anatomical models to examine fully before applying your knowledge to real-life bodies (i.e.
peer learning).
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for the Clinical Rehabilitation Laboratories:
Clinical Rehabilitation Lab 117 accessibility guide
Clinical Rehabilitation Lab 122 accessibility guide
We’ve got thousands of books and e-books on pharmaceutical and biomedical science, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
Some of the most important sources for your studies include:
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex on our City Campus, which has benefited from a recent multimillion pound investment.
Teaching takes place in multi-media classrooms with state-of-the-art resources for learning.
Primarily for Physiotherapy provision, Darwin Building will house shared spaces for Physiotherapy and Sport and Exercise Sciences and will include a gym fully equipped with a range of cardiovascular and resistance training equipment, and an Activities of Daily Living (ADL) mock flat with simulated living space including bedroom, kitchen and bathroom areas.
A separate multi-purpose open plan space will be used for active play and creative activities, suited to the developmental or rehabilitative needs of children and adults.
If you meet these requirements, then your application will be individually assessed by the BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy Admissions Tutor and if successful, you will be shortlisted for interview.
Fitness to practise Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all physiotherapy courses and are based on current HCPC requirements.
Physiotherapists are registered health care professionals and the ability to practise safely, effectively, and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
In addition, you will be required to attend an Occupational Health Assessment with an NHS Trust.
The University will, taking into account current HCPC regulations make any reasonable adjustments if required.
Please refer to the HEOPS physiotherapy student fitness standards .
Evidence of the experience gained, understanding of the profession and a genuine, reasoned commitment to studying a professional course must be explicit in your personal statement to be selected for interview.
Personal statement Your personal statement provides a unique opportunity to express your personal qualities and attributes related to a rewarding career in physiotherapy.
The statement should include a clear articulation of: Rationale for your choice of career Evidence of investigation of physiotherapy as a career that demonstrates insight of the role and purpose of the profession in contemporary health and social care, and wellbeing Personal qualities and transferable skills that may contribute to success in the course and profession Interview As a shortlisted applicant you will attend an interview as part of the selection process, which includes an individual and group activity.
Your values, problem-solving, and communication skills will also be assessed.
Your interview event will provide opportunities to interact with academic staff, clinical staff, students, patients, and their families or carers.
Personal qualities We select students based on their knowledge, motivation, experience, values and behaviours, not just academic ability.
You need to demonstrate the ability to: Study academic subjects at the level of the course Debate topics and issues Draw on conclusions from written material Study independently and as part of a group Use computers and technology associated with teaching, learning and assessment Interact with patients and colleagues in a caring and compassionate manner Demonstrate an understanding of, and commitment to, the course If English is not your first language, you need an overall IELTS score of 7, with at least 6.5 in each band.
Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all physiotherapy courses and are based on current HCPC requirements.
Your personal statement provides a unique opportunity to express your personal qualities and attributes related to a rewarding career in physiotherapy.
As a shortlisted applicant you will attend an interview as part of the selection process, which includes an individual and group activity.
We select students based on their knowledge, motivation, experience, values and behaviours, not just academic ability.
Fees for 2026/27 are tbc.
In addition, you will be expected to buy your books, stationery, travel, and accommodation.
For practice placements, you will be provided with a uniform by the University.
A non-repayable grant of £5,000 and extra payments worth up to £3,000 is available to eligible home students for each year of study.
Graduate Physiotherapists are key workers and will be eligible to work in multiple organisations.
This includes the acute NHS Trusts, GP surgeries, schools, industry, community physical health services, mental health services, learning disability services and social services / local authorities as well as private practice, charities and other non-traditional and third sector organisations.
Graduates could also consider a career working in clinical research or teaching, in the UK or overseas.
You will undertake a range of practice placements to gain real-life experience and apply your learning to real-life situations which may lead to further employment opportunities.
To further assist in preparing you for employment as a physiotherapist, this course:
Physiotherapy is a protected profession, which means that it is regulated by law to ensure that only people who have passed state approved training courses and have registered with the state regulator, may practise.
The state regulator for physiotherapists is the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Only those who register with the HCPC may call themselves physiotherapists and practise physiotherapy autonomously.
On successful completion of the course graduates will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Pre-registration students are also eligible to join the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy as student members, and on graduation will be eligible for full membership.
There is demand in all health and social care services including the acute NHS Trusts, community physical health services, mental health services, Learning Disability Services and Social Services / Local Authorities as well as private practice, charities and other non-traditional and third sector organisations.
Therefore graduate prospects and opportunities are far greater than other similar courses.
Physiotherapy is included in the NHS Agenda for Change (AfC) pay rates .
According to Prospects , starting salaries for physiotherapists are in Band 5, with earning potential between £27,055 to £32,934.
With further training and experience, physiotherapists can earn between £33,706 and £40,588 (Band 6), and as a clinical specialist/team leader between £41,659 and £47,672 (Band 7).
Salaries for advanced clinical practice, extended scope or clinical lead physiotherapists are around £48,526 to £54,619 (Band 8a), rising to between £56,164 and £65,262 (Band 8b) for consultant physiotherapist roles.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/public-allied-health/undergraduate-paramedic-science:
Equip yourself with the knowledge, skills and values to be a registered paramedic.
Study pathophysiology, clinical skills and patient assessment.
Start a highly rewarding career as a key worker in the NHS or the out of hospital care environment.
This course will provide you with the knowledge and skills you require to be a registered paramedic.
You will be equipped to meet the challenges of modern paramedic practice, enabling you to deal with unpredictable situations competently and confidently.
You will learn potentially lifesaving procedures that will allow you to treat and stabilise patients at the scene of an accident or emergency.
You'll be taught by a highly-skilled and motivated team with both clinical and teaching expertise.
Evidence-based practice is embedded in the course, which ensures you are taught the most current and up-to-date skills and knowledge.
You'll learn through a variety of methods, including presentations, seminars, lectures, group work and problem-based learning.
You'll also undertake a wide range of practice placements throughout the north-east to enhance your learning, which may lead to further employment opportunities.
A strong professional identity and confidence to work with various professional groups are an essential part of the course.
Have you ever wondered how research helps paramedics do their jobs better?
Or why people behave the way they do in emergencies?
Learn how to ask the right questions, collect data, and interpret the results effectively.
You'll look at how research, using both quantitative and qualitative methods, can improve real-life paramedic work.
What does it take to be a great paramedic?
Learn how to listen, show care, and talk clearly with patients, families, and other healthcare staff.
Explore how to work in a team and treat everyone with kindness and respect.
You'll also think about what it means to be a professional and why high standards matter in paramedic work.
Through group work, real-life stories, and class discussions, you'll build the skills you need to help people to the best of your ability.
How does the human body work?
Uncover what happens inside the body and how to check if something is wrong.
Explore how the body grows and stays balanced (homeostasis), and why that matters for health.
Learn about common medical problems and how to assess and treat them, including injuries and emergencies outside of the hospital.
What’s it really like to be a paramedic?
Take part in placements in ambulances, hospitals, and simulated settings, where you can put your skills into practice.
Work with trained clinical staff, helping patients and seeing how paramedics make decisions every day.
Being a paramedic takes more than medical knowledge.
It’s also about staying calm, working in a team, and showing care and respect to everyone you meet.
How do you think clearly when it matters most?
Paramedics need to make smart and fast decisions in tricky situations.
Discover how to use facts and evidence to make informed decisions for patients.
Learn how to work more independently and understand how the paramedic role is always changing and evolving.
This module will enable you to grow your skills, confidence and take the next step in your paramedic journey.
What does it mean to be a professional paramedic beyond medical skills?
Explore the leadership, laws, and ethics that guide everyday practice.
Uncover how healthcare providers ensure their care is safe and high quality through audits and reviews.
Learn how organisations help teams to meet goals and follow rules in order to keep patients safe.
Discover how the body works and what happens when things go wrong, like during illness or injury.
How do signs and symptoms connect to what’s happening inside the body?
How do different body systems react to trauma?
Develop your awareness of the application of paramedic intervention and how such care can alter patients’ experience of illness and injury.
Dive into real life and simulated placements, in ambulances, critical care, and more.
These hands-on experiences will help you use the skills and knowledge you’ve learned so far and understand how they apply in real situations.
It’s your chance to build confidence, learn from professionals, and take the next step in your paramedic journey.
Learn how to grow as a leader and help others do the same.
Explore how leadership and management are different, and why both matter in a fast-moving healthcare team.
Grow your understanding of how politics, money, and culture can affect decisions and shape the way care is delivered, both in the UK and around the world.
This is your chance to understand the bigger picture and how you can make a real impact.
Want to dive deeper into a topic that matters to you?
In this module, you’ll carry out a project on a subject of your choice in paramedicine.
You’ll learn how to ask the right questions, explore research, and check how strong and reliable the evidence is.
This will help you understand how research shapes real decisions and improves care.
How do you make the best decisions for patients in urgent care?
Discover how to use the latest research to assess and treat patients outside of the hospital.
Build advanced skills in patient assessment, learn about medicines, and explore how to care for the person as a whole, not just their illness or injury.
You'll also gain a deeper understanding of long-term health conditions and how your care can make a real difference.
Ready to lead patient care?
This module helps you work more independently and make decisions with confidence.
You’ll apply your knowledge during placements in an ambulance, the community, and simulated settings.
You’ll practise advanced assessment, decision-making, and referral skills while learning how to give safe, high-quality care.
It’s your next step toward becoming a skilled and confident clinician.
Discover the benefits of starting a healthcare course in April
Find out why you should study Paramedic Science and Out of Hospital Care at Sunderland.
You will be supported throughout your development with the latest in simulation technology, from the use of high-fidelity manikins, remote video technology and a state of the art simulated ambulance.
This bespoke ambulance has been designed to not only enable you to experience the day-to-day work of an ambulance paramedic, but is also equipped to include the latest learning and assessment technology.
This allows your course to be very innovative in its design and delivery, allowing you to undertake clinical simulation in a variety of remote settings throughout the region.
This course will be based across our City Campus.
The University campus utilises multi-media classrooms with state-of-the-art resources for learning.
You will be expected to undertake a variety of clinical placements and work outside normal working hours including weekends.
Placements can be anywhere within the North East region including Berwick and North Yorkshire.
You will be expected to travel daily or stay in local accommodation for the duration of your placement.
If you meet these requirements, then your application will be individually assessed by the Admissions Tutor and if successful you will be shortlisted for interview.
Care experience You must have some experience of delivering care in a professional or voluntary capacity.
This can also include caring for family members, volunteering with youth groups, being part of the army/navy/air cadets or St John’s Ambulance.
Personal statement Your personal statement provides a unique opportunity to express your personal qualities and attributes related to a rewarding career as a paramedic.
The statement should include a clear articulation of: Rationale for your choice of career How your personality lends itself to a career as a paramedic Evidence of investigation into the career of a paramedic that demonstrates insight of the role What attracts you to the profession Personal qualities and transferable skills that may contribute to success in the course and profession What sports/activities do you enjoy and what skills have you developed Interview All applicants must attend an interview as part of the selection process, which includes a group activity and an individual interview.
Your values, problem solving and communication skills will be assessed.
You need to demonstrate an ability to: study academic subjects at the level of the course debate topics and issues draw on conclusions from written material study independently and as part of a group use computers and technology associated with teaching, learning and assessment interact with patients and colleagues in a caring and compassionate manner demonstrate an understanding of, and commitment to, the course Fitness to practise Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all paramedic courses and are based on current HCPC requirements.
Paramedics are registered health care professionals and the ability to practise safely, effectively and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
Here you must demonstrate that you are of good health, good character and can satisfactorily pass occupational health screening.
The University will, taking into account current HCPC regulations, make any reasonable adjustments if required.
Please refer to the HEOPS paramedic student fitness standards .
Health declarations You must demonstrate that you are of good health, good character and can satisfactorily pass occupational health screening.
The University will, taking into account current HCPC regulations, do all it can to accommodate the needs of candidates who declare a specific learning difficulty, long-term health condition or disability.
Please refer to the HEOPS paramedic student standards .
Driving A driving licence is not a mandatory requirement, however you will be expected to travel to placements and shift patterns may not always fit with the availability of public transport.
Where possible we do try to arrange placements near to term-time addresses but this isn’t always possible.
We strongly encourage you to try to gain a full driving licence by the end of the course to enhance your job opportunities and employability.
A C1 driving classification is not an entry requirement for the course.
You must have some experience of delivering care in a professional or voluntary capacity.
Your personal statement provides a unique opportunity to express your personal qualities and attributes related to a rewarding career as a paramedic.
All applicants must attend an interview as part of the selection process, which includes a group activity and an individual interview.
Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all paramedic courses and are based on current HCPC requirements.
You must demonstrate that you are of good health, good character and can satisfactorily pass occupational health screening.
A driving licence is not a mandatory requirement, however you will be expected to travel to placements and shift patterns may not always fit with the availability of public transport.
On successful completion of this course you will be eligible to apply for registration with the HCPC as a paramedic.
Career options are also available outside the NHS in out of hospital environments such as off-shore, remote medicine, armed forces or primary care.
Salaries for Paramedics are in line with the NHS Agenda for Change pay scales .
According to Prospects , the starting salary for paramedics is a band 5, which ranges from £25,655 to £31,534.
After two years, you'll have the opportunity to increase to Band 6 (£32,306 and £39,027) following a newly qualified paramedic pathway.
Experienced paramedics such as team leaders or senior paramedics who have had additional skills training can earn a salary of bands 6 to 7 (between £32,306 and £45,839).
Continued training and gained experience can increase your salary opportunities.
To assist in preparing you for employment as a paramedic, this course:
Your placement may be in an ambulance department, care/residential home, patient transport service, accident and emergency, or primary care setting.
Placements are subject to availability and can be anywhere in the North East, from Berwick to North Yorkshire.
You will be responsible for any associated costs including travel and accommodation for the duration of your placements.
Please note, students who already hold a degree will not qualify for this fund.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/medicine/mbchb-medicine:
Study an innovative, highly-integrated medical curriculum in state-of-the-art facilities.
Gain the knowledge, skills and professionalism that you will require as a new doctor embarking on further training.
Graduate ready to maximise your career progression and improve lives.
The MBChB honours degree is designed to ensure you meet the necessary standards in terms of knowledge, skills and professionalism that all new doctors should have as they embark on further training.
You'll study alongside pharmacists, nurses, paramedics, biomedical, sport and physiological scientists offering opportunities for inter-disciplinary working.
You'll be taught mainly in small class sizes and learning groups but will also experience a range of other learning methods including lectures, seminars and self-directed learning.
You’ll develop your intellectual, personal and professional skills through independent thinking, creative problem solving, and constructive communication.
You’ll also gain a deep understanding of the social, environmental and global implications of your studies as well as how to make a positive contribution in a complex and rapidly changing world.
Our programme is modern and forward thinking, using Problem Based Learning in a spiral curriculum that builds complexity year-on-year.
Our culture is supportive and inclusive with a large network of academic and clinical tutors and mentors.
If you have the skills, passion and ambition and want to be part of a welcoming community, Sunderland is the place to be.
As an established School of Medicine, our MBChB course has successfully progressed through the General Medical Council’s (GMC) rigorous quality assurance programme and is now fully ratified.
Studying medicine relies on methods that are clinically realistic.
You will be taught via scheduled learning and teaching activities, anatomy teaching based in the Anatomy Lab, problem-based/case-based learning, extensive clinical placements in hospital and community settings and guided independent study.
Our course is designed to help you maximise your career progression and leadership potential through opportunities to study a range of complementary subjects drawn from the University, including the humanities.
We make learning enjoyable through small class sizes, small group learning, early clinical experience and helping you to develop into a highly competent and self-aware professional.
You will be assessed by in-year written work, written information management skills assessments, written knowledge examinations, reflective assignments and practical examinations.
You’ll have regular feedback and one-on-one tutor sessions, which will help you improve your performance and address any difficulties you might be having.
The curriculum has three phases delivered at the University and in primary and secondary care settings.
Years 1 and 2 are based predominantly at City Campus.
Clinical placements in Years 3 - 5 are based in well-established local teaching hospitals and GP practices.
Intercalation is available as an option after Year 2 as a BSc degree or Year 4 as an MSc degree.
You will have the opportunity to undertake a course at the University of Sunderland, or at another University, subject to approval by the School of Medicine.
Overview with early clinical exposure.
You will learn the fundamentals of biomedical, behavioural and social science with a focus on sciences, research, study and communication skills, basic clinical skills and professionalism.
You get a second run through of many aspects of biomedical, behavioural and social science with an increased emphasis on complexity and pathology, combined with learning fundamental clinical skills and knowledge.
Immersion in clinical placements building on the foundations of clinical knowledge and skills developed in the preceding years.
Very extensive student assistantships to prepare you for practice as a Foundation Year 1 doctor.
You will learn through integrated units such as Health and Disease, Immunology and Infection, Emergencies, Life Course, Scholarship, Brain and Mind, Pregnancy and Lifestyle, with longitudinal GP and hospital placements.
A second run through of many aspects of biomedical, behavioural and social science with an increased emphasis on complexity and pathology.
You will learn through integrated units such as Mechanism of Disease, Inputs and Outputs, Movement and Trauma, Circulation, Scholarship, Breath of Life, Integrated systems, longitudinal GP and hospital placements and a 3rd sector community placement.
Learning through integrated units such as Medicine, Surgery, Elderly Care, Mental Health, Paediatrics, General Practice and a Student-Selected Component.
Learning through integrated units such as Medicine, Surgery, Womens Health, Mental Health, Paediatrics, Neurology/musculoskeletal and a General Practice Component.
Our anatomy laboratory is equipped to deliver contemporary anatomy teaching and learning including gross and living anatomy as well as osteology and clinical imaging.
Anatomy learning resources we provide include:
In the academic year 2021/2022, we will open an onsite cadaveric anatomy facility which will support anatomy teaching using prosections, alongside the broad range of contemporary learning resources already offered.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Dale Building.
Our purpose-built School of Medicine based in Murray Health offers state-of-the-art teaching and learning facilities including the Technology Enhanced Active Learning (TEAL) Space, Problem-Based Learning Suite, silent study zone and library.
The non-clinical components of the course are based here.
The purpose-built Murray Health School of Medicine and the University of Sunderland facilities offer one of the best student experiences for those studying the sciences, including industry-standard research and teaching laboratories and testing equipment in pharmacy, pharmaceutical, biomedical, environmental and sports sciences.
For a full list of the subjects we accept, please see our entry requirements .
We are also unable to accept applicants who do not hold the A Levels and GCSEs required below.
Equivalent qualifications will not be accepted.
A Level A Levels in three subjects at grades AAA are required, including Biology or Chemistry plus another designated science subject (Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths/Further Maths/Statistics) and a third academic subject.
Any science A Level (Biology, Chemistry, Physics) completed in England from 2017 must include a pass in the practical endorsement; without this, the qualification will be judged to have been failed, regardless of the headline grade.
Please note, some subjects are not accepted.
Only one subject from a combination of Maths or Further Maths or Statistics will be considered within the three A Levels.
A Level grades must be achieved in one sitting .
The primary admissions criteria which is being considered (eg A Levels) must have been completed within the past five years.
Graduate route If you already hold a degree, please see our standard entry graduate route .
Access to Higher Education Please note, we do not accept Access to Higher Education/Access to Medicine courses.
UCAT All applicants must take the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) during the year in which they apply.
Scores must be within the top 8 deciles of the cohort and situational judgement test (SJT) must be within bands 1-3.
Our minimum UCAT cut-off scores are displayed below: Year 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 Minimum score 2260 2270 2250 2270 2290 For more information, see our Help and Advice articles on UCAT .
Interview Selection Tool The interview selection tool is a survey used as part of the shortlisting process for selection for interview.
Applicants meeting the minimum academic requirements (including appropriate aptitude tests) will be issued this online form.
Applicants are encouraged to write about and reflect on work experiences they have had which they believe allowed them to develop the skills and attributes they may need for a future career in medicine.
Please see our Help and Advice articles on the interview selection tool .
Interviews Shortlisting for interview is based on academic requirements, our interview selection tool, and UCAT score.
Our interviews take the form of multiple mini-interviews (MMIs) .
Please see our Help and Advice articles on the interview process .
Fitness to practise This course is a registered professional programme and the ability to practise safely and effectively is essential.
All students will be subjected to Fitness to Practise procedures which include DBS clearance checks, Health Declaration, and Declaration of Good Conduct.
Under 18 We require all applicants to be 18 years old by 31 December in the year they intend to start the course due to our early clinical placements.
Contextual offer We have a contextual offer of AAB for applicants that fulfil both our local postcode (North East and Cumbria) and meet one of our WP requirements: POLAR 4 quintiles 1 and 2 (home address) criteria You are a refugee You receive free school meals or were eligible within the last six years You received UCAT bursary You are a student from a UK armed forces family (military service child) You can check your postcode on the Office for Students website .
Applicants must still meet the normal entry requirements, including the required UCAT score.
If you are unsure about your local status please email medicineapplications@sunderland.ac.uk .
Work experience guidance We expect applicants to have work experience.
This is in - line with the Medical Schools’ Council Work Experience Guidelines.
Please see our Help and Advice article for information on work experience .
A Levels in three subjects at grades AAA are required, including Biology or Chemistry plus another designated science subject (Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths/Further Maths/Statistics) and a third academic subject.
If you already hold a degree, please see our standard entry graduate route .
Please note, we do not accept Access to Higher Education/Access to Medicine courses.
All applicants must take the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) during the year in which they apply.
For more information, see our Help and Advice articles on UCAT .
The interview selection tool is a survey used as part of the shortlisting process for selection for interview.
Shortlisting for interview is based on academic requirements, our interview selection tool, and UCAT score.
This course is a registered professional programme and the ability to practise safely and effectively is essential.
We require all applicants to be 18 years old by 31 December in the year they intend to start the course due to our early clinical placements.
We have a contextual offer of AAB for applicants that fulfil both our local postcode (North East and Cumbria) and meet one of our WP requirements: POLAR 4 quintiles 1 and 2 (home address) criteria You are a refugee You receive free school meals or were eligible within the last six years You received UCAT bursary You are a student from a UK armed forces family (military service child) You can check your postcode on the Office for Students website .
You can check your postcode on the Office for Students website .
We expect applicants to have work experience.
Fees are £9,535 if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
Learn more about where our new Medicine cohort might end up in the future
Studying medicine at university is extremely competitive.
If you haven’t managed to secure a place then don’t panic, at the University of Sunderland there are a number of options to choose from.
Find out more about the options available to you
This course will enable you to develop your intellectual, personal and professional capabilities.
These attributes include independent thinking, synthesizing information, creative problem solving, communicating clearly, and appreciating the social, environmental and global implications of your studies and activities.
Our course and clinical learning environment are designed to help you to become a well-rounded graduate who aspires to make a positive and valued contribution in a complex and rapidly changing world, whichever spheres of life you engage in after your studies are completed.
Medicine is a very diverse profession with an expanding range of career options.
You will be taught in some of the best performing hospital Trusts in England.
We will ensure that you graduate with a strong grounding in the general and social sciences alongside a high level of patient contact in both hospital and general practice settings.
You will gain insight into the health needs of our population, the needs of our patients and their experiences of the NHS.
We train excellent and innovative clinicians, well prepared for future practice and the globalisation of health care.
At the end of the undergraduate course, you’ll receive your degree.
The General Medical Council (GMC) approves your university’s degree as a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
This is important because, provided there are no concerns about your fitness to practise, a PMQ entitles you to provisional registration with the GMC for a licence to practise medicine in the UK.
The GMC is introducing a Medical Licensing Assessment – the MLA.
The MLA will create a demonstration that anyone obtaining registration with a licence to practise medicine in the UK has met a common threshold for safe practice.
UK medical students will need to pass the MLA to test the core knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to practise safely in the UK.
This will be part of your medical school degree and you must pass that before you can join the medical register.
The MLA will give patients and employers greater confidence in doctors new to working in the UK, wherever they were educated or trained.
Read more about the MLA .
Page last updated:  27 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/fashion-design-promotion:
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Fashion Design and Promotion course, with an integrated foundation year.
Explore every aspect of fashion.
Gain skills in, and an understanding of, fashion design, fashion promotion, and marketing.
Launch your career in the growing and exciting fashion industry, with career paths including design, styling, promotion, marketing, manufacturing, visual merchandising, buying, and selling.
Can’t decide between fashion design, and fashion promotion and marketing?
You don’t have to – BA (Hons) Fashion Design and Promotion is a course that gives you skills and crucial understanding in both areas.
In fashion design you’ll develop concepts, explore materials, design fabrics through to full fashion collections, and develop an understanding of the manufacturing processes.
You’ll gain all the skills you’ll need to construct garments – such as pattern making, cutting, sewing, fabric printing, and craftsmanship – all while discovering new technologies.
On the fashion promotion and marketing pathway, you’ll consider the whole fashion market, analyse future trends, develop brands, learn the marketing mix, gain an understanding of visual merchandising, create promotional materials, and plan and manage events, including fashion shows.
You’ll learn graphic design, styling, and photography, and will have access to our fashion journalism expertise.
Throughout the course you’ll be nurtured, supported, and developed by our expert team.
They're on hand to guide you and help choose your preferred pathway.
They have many years’ experience working and teaching in fashion, specialising in sustainability, garment construction, design, promotion, and marketing.
The course will prepare you to work in areas including design, styling, promotion, marketing, manufacturing, visual merchandising, buying, and selling.
Teaching is almost entirely practical and studio-based, supported by lectures, seminars, tutorials, e-learning, and independent study and research.
Assessment is all coursework-based.
In the foundation year, you'll study five modules.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move onto the Fashion Design and Promotion honours degree course.
In the first year, you’ll cover the fundamental foundation subjects across both fashion design and fashion promotion.
In the second year, you'll build on, grow, and develop your knowledge and learning in both disciplines through a series of live projects, competitions, and the annual second year fashion show.
You'll have the opportunity to apply to undertake an optional placement year out in industry between your third and final year, which is sometimes known as a sandwich degree.
In your final year, you'll specialise in your chosen pathway, developing your own unique final major project.
Previously, these have included the creation and production of a full fashion line, developing a brand identity and look book, producing a fashion publication, and creating and delivering a fashion event.
The Creative Industries (Arts, Design, Performance, Media Production) Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
This module will enable you to become a confident, cultural consumer, exploring fundamental concepts needed for successful study in art, design, performance, and media production courses.
A key focus will be consideration of the audience and context for creative practice.
You’ll examine a range of themes through the lens of contemporary creative practice, which may include topics such as communication, celebrity, new technology, and identity.
This module supports the development skills and attributes needed for degree level study and graduate employment.
This includes searching for information, reviewing evidence, presenting information, and self-analysis to identify strengths and areas for improvement.
This module supports understanding in a topic area related to your area of study.
It also encourages independent and teamwork with support available from tutors throughout the lifespan of the project.
This module helps you get ready for your degree and life at university.
You’ll develop useful skills to settle in and find your way around, and discover how to use university systems and resources.
You’ll get help with writing a CV, preparing for interviews, and using AI ethically.
You'll also learn how to maintain a healthy work-life balance, set academic and professional goals, and make the most of the support services available to you.
This module will give you an introduction to a range of concepts and practical techniques used in contemporary creative practice in art, design, media production, and performance.
Workshops will introduce some key technical skills and ideas, including digital production, learning through making, and reflective practice.
The process of creativity is a key focus of this module, and you’ll build your own portfolio of work featuring a range of creative outcomes in various styles and media.
Develop a core understanding of fashion design and promotion, including understanding of basic fashion and promotion terminology, critical appraisal of briefings, visual and factual research, speculation on potential solutions, selecting and synthesising innovative ideas, developing preferred outcomes and refining and presenting ideas to an informed audience.
Create a six-outfit collection for a high street/online store, alongside a promotional campaign including advertisement and packaging, all aimed at a specific target audience.
Gain skills in using digital CAD packages, the construction processes for fashion, basic pattern-cutting, characteristics of fabric types, and fabric embellishment through print and embroidery.
Develop core skills in inquiry and exploration and problem-based learning.
Concentrate on underpinning basic pattern-cutting, fabrication, design and construction processes for fashion.
Engage a wide range of technical pattern cutting, construction and visual communication skills.
Apply a design process at an introductory level, which includes critical appraisal of briefings, visual and factual research, speculation on potential solutions, selecting and synthesising innovative ideas, developing preferred outcomes and refining and presenting ideas to an informed audience.
Explore technical design skills through manual and basic digital methodologies to realise outcomes during supported workshop and directed study time.
Use manual and related CAD technologies or other media, and develop skills to assist in the visual communication and presentation of design ideas.
Apply research and analytical skills to develop and evaluate written and visual material contextualising fashion history within the wider fashion world.
Critically analyse the key theoretical arguments in fashion and build an awareness of the major designers, brands, publications and companies in the industry today.
Develop a critical understanding of cultural, political and societal issues and events that have shaped fashion and the fashion media
Develop your ability to convey ideas through moving image, by learning techniques that will allow you to design, plan, edit and create movies using motion graphics and special effects.
Understand the language used to communicate through time-based media and learn a range of industry-standard software and hardware to hone your skills.
Practice the techniques that will allow you to create and synchronise moving graphics, video, sound, typography, animated elements and visual effects to create dynamic and effective movies.
These can be used in different design disciplines such as Graphics or Fashion, for promotion and advertising, animated look books, information graphics, personal portfolios, and more.
Develop your core practical skills in a commercial design context.
Gain practical knowledge of the fundamental skills and technologies that underpin design and manufacture in contemporary fashion.
Progress the development of your creative design practice within a specified commercial context.
Research and investigate a specific market, underpinning your understanding of the context of commercial design, fashion and textile sustainability and its restrictions.
Develop deeper pattern-cutting skills, construction methods and fabric awareness, and apply your skills through a design project.
Work towards two separate projects.
Learn how to investigate and analyse different trends and design ideas in order to create a final range plan.
Create an individual brand identity including logo and promotional literature for your final range plan.
Develop a key understanding of how to plan, promote and brand a fundraising event to be held in the city of Sunderland in order to raise funds for your final year show, working within a team.
Create a personal file documenting the process and methods of planning and staging the fashion event.
Develop an advanced understanding of how to use the most appropriate illustration and presentation methods to build upon your growing awareness of designing for a particular market sector, in this case, sportswear.
Grow your skills in fashion illustration techniques in order to enhance your designs and improve presentation.
Learn to utilise different visual communication methods in order to communicate your ideas in clear, exciting and innovative ways that meet individual and specific client requirements.
Create both hand-rendered and digital illustration styles through using a variety of different methods and techniques to develop a design story.
Investigate, analyse and evaluate the work of other illustrators in order to understand the different applications they use in order to further develop your own personal style.
Explore the techniques and processes of creative imagery for fashion media.
Study past and present stylists to discern the personal, aesthetic and historical influences on their work, as well as the impact of editorial brand and target audience on the imagery they create.
Learn the practicalities of styling, including the sourcing of themes, garments, models and hair and make-up artists, and act as stylists and art directors to oversee your own studio shoots.
Learn essential job search skills and experience a short work placement with an employer, or other experience of working in the creative industries.
Prepare yourself for industry with a portfolio/showreel that demonstrates your creative abilities and prepares you to move towards Year 3 and professional practice.
Build your online presence as a creative using CreateBritain.com and understand how social media can effectively become a shop window for your skills.
Learn the importance of building a professional network and gain studio insights through agency visits, collaborations or creative lives talks.
Experience the requirements of working with real clients on ‘live’ briefs, whether found through your own networks, or through HotHouse or the Creative Industries Hub.
Gain real-life experience within a placement year in the world of work.
Apply and develop your specialist skills and further develop transferable skills such as teamwork, presentation, managing time, understanding how designers work in an organisation, and learning through self-reflection and employer/tutor feedback.
Undertake a programme of study during your placement year which will help you to understand your personal and professional development, enhance your knowledge of your employer’s workflows and employee responsibilities, and contribute towards the successful operations of your host employer.
Produce content for a professional portfolio, reflecting individual design skills and creativity to prepare for your chosen career.
Complete a series of briefs or live projects allowing you to demonstrate a personal style in design, promotion and branding with guidance through personal tutorials in order to achieve a professional standard of presentation.
Participate in a portfolio review with visiting professionals who can give you independent feedback and advice.
Develop a critical understanding of current contextual issues associated with the creative industries.
Apply your research to evaluate, critique, discuss and synthesise your understanding of at least one current contextual issue facing the industry.
Demonstrate your skills to produce a media platform to communicate your research, findings, understanding and analysis of the current contextual issues effectively and professionally.
In your final project you get to set your own brief, which will be carefully researched and presented in your Final Proposal.
This will provide the framework for your personal project, which you can direct in a number of ways.
Past successful final projects have included an ethical childrenswear range for IKEA, an original branding and promotion pack for an urban menswear range and a conceptual collection of mens’ suits inspired by the stages of grief through to acceptance.
Learn more about careers in the creative industries.
Creative Industries Week is an exciting opportunity for all Arts and Creative Industries students.
Offering a change of pace from the usual class timetable, Creative Industries Week gives you a chance to consider career options, network with staff and students from different courses, and get a wider view of the creative industries.
Learn more about Creative Industries Week
Here are five reasons to study fashion at Sunderland
We offer excellent facilities such as well-equipped workshops featuring fabric printers, laser cutters, top of the range design suites and industrial sewing machines.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Priestman Building.
The University Library is your gateway to information resources and services both on and off campus.
We’ve got thousands of print books, e-books, exhibition catalogues and journals, giving you reliable and up-to-date academic and industry articles.
A single search box enables searching across print and digital resources, and you’ll have tailored digital resources and support for students in Art and Design.
Access to many study places, including quiet and silent zones, PCs and Macs, group work hubs, online module reading lists and study skills support, all in our quality learning environments.
You’ll have full use of two libraries, both with extensive opening hours, and ‘Live Chat’ enables you to access library support and help from anywhere 24/7.
We’re much more than a library; the University Library and Study Skills team are on hand to guide you throughout your studies on and off campus from embedded skills sessions, digital skills support to 1-2-1 and drop-in advice on research and academic skills.
This course is based at the Priestman Building, the main base for art, design, and performance on City Campus.
Thanks to a major renovation programme, the fashion team gained excellent teaching spaces and resources, providing a vibrant and creative learning environment.
The UK fashion industry is worth £26 billion to the economy and growing.
More than 800,000 people are working in fashion in the UK and we want you to be part of it.
We'll prepare you to work in areas including: design, styling, promotion, marketing, manufacturing, visual merchandising, buying, and selling.
Graduates from this course have gone into a wide range of careers, from fashion design, pattern cutting, and garment technology, to sourcing and allocating, buying, branding, marketing, merchandising, communications, styling, and more.
The professional skills graduates obtain from this course also allow them to build successful freelance careers.
Past graduates have gone on to work for well-renowned design companies such as Abercrombie and Fitch, River Island, Debenhams, Topman, All Saints, and Matalan.
Get real-life experience by organising your own fashion event in the city in your second year.
Working together to liaise with venues, planning music, branding and marketing, booking models, and not forgetting creating pieces for the show.
Previous events have included a fashion film premiere, a catwalk show, a dance performance, and DJ.
The fundraising event, which is part of an event planning module, helps our students raise money for their final year Degree Show.
Creative Industries Week gives everyone in the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries the opportunity to participate in a range of projects, workshops, talks, industry visits, and career events.
This exciting week encourages interdisciplinary working, broadens your experience, builds your confidence, and helps to develop your career path.
Sunderland Culture is a collaboration between the University, council, and the city’s key culture organisations.
This partnership brings big name creatives in contemporary visual arts, glass, ceramics, and performance to the city; showcases exciting local talent; and gives our students unique experiences including exceptional career-enhancing opportunities.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr/undergraduate-fashion-journalism:
If you are applying for this course from within the UK click Apply Now
Course starts: 15 September 2025 Apply now
Prepare for a career as a fashion journalist or stylist.
Learn editorial styling, catwalk reporting, trend forecasting, studio photoshoots and the history of Chanel and McQueen.
Create a glossy fashion magazine or website and join the Fashion North team.
By studying BA (Hons) Fashion Journalism at Sunderland, you'll develop essential fashion journalism skills such as catwalk reporting, editorial styling, studio photoshoots, street style photography, podcasting, social media stories and beauty and video journalism.
You'll learn from industry experts, publishing opportunities and fashion trips, while earning your National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) Diploma in Journalism, the industry-recognised qualification.
You'll also get hands-on experience as part of the Fashion North editorial team and go on placements which have previously included Sunday Times Style magazine, Harpers Bazaar, Grazia, Elle, ASOS and Glamour.
Get to know Spark, Fashion North and Sportsbyte, our students' award-winning websites for local news, local sport, fashion and arts and entertainment.
Teaching methods include fashion newsdays, attending editorial conferences and creating content for Fashion North, lectures, workshops, photographic studio time and group projects.
All our teaching staff have worked as journalists and have strong links with national and regional media organisations.
We also invite experienced industry professionals to host guest lectures and masterclasses.
Assessment is split between portfolios of practical work, essays, examinations, reports and presentations.
Part-time study
If you study this course on a part-time basis you will typically complete 40-80 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All modules are taught during the day time and you'll be studying alongside full-time students.
Ever wondered what it takes to work in news, fashion, or sports?
Master the key skills for finding and researching stories, tracking down sources, conducting interviews, and writing compelling headlines and story introductions.
Plus, you'll learn how to structure a story that keeps your audience hooked.
You’ll also get hands-on experience creating podcasts to share stories across news, fashion, and sports journalism.
How about using social media and analytics to promote your work and reach a wider audience?
You’ll explore all of that too.
Want to capture the attention of online audiences with compelling stories?
This module will teach you how to present news in fresh, digital-friendly ways, from video journalism to data-driven storytelling.
You'll also develop key journalism skills, like finding stories, interviewing sources, crafting content that grabs attention and producing impactful, multimedia news for today’s online audience.
Navigate key issues like libel, privacy, copyright, and court reporting across print, online, broadcast, and social media.
You'll also get hands-on experience checking copy for legal risks, writing court reports, and applying industry standards like the Editors’ Code and the Ofcom Code.
At the end of this module you’ll have the confidence to report with accuracy, integrity, and legal know-how – ready to tell important stories responsibly.
Ever wondered how fashion trends start or why some designers become legends?
This module takes you through key moments in fashion history, exploring the icons and subcultures that have shaped the industry.
You’ll also dive into the biggest fashion brands, uncovering how they craft their image, influence trends, and stay relevant in a fast-changing world.
Through fashion marketing and communication, you’ll see how brands build trust, attract customers, and drive their success.
To bring it all together, you’ll analyse a fashion brand of your choice, examining its history, creativity, and business strategies to understand what makes it thrive (or where it falls short).
Ready to create standout videos for social media and the web?
In this module, you’ll learn everything from filming and editing to crafting compelling scripts and mastering camera techniques.
You’ll practice interviewing people and honing your storytelling skills to produce professional-quality videos that grab attention.
Alongside this, discover how to grow your audience by tracking views, boosting engagement, and building a loyal online community.
Ready to turn your storytelling skills into a career?
This module teaches you how to craft long-form journalism for trade magazines, online publications, and beyond.
You’ll learn how to pitch original ideas to editors, understand your audience, and use SEO and analytics to make sure your work gets seen.
Whilst also creating social media content to promote your features and boost engagement.
Experience the fast-paced world of journalism working on live news websites, writing, editing, and publishing stories for print and digital platforms.
Throughout this module you'll cover breaking news, community reporting, and in-depth stories while learning how to use multimedia, social media, and analytics to engage audiences.
With guidance from experienced journalists, you'll gain the skills and confidence to thrive in a modern newsroom.
Take creative control as you style and direct your own lookbooks, editorial shoots, and brand campaign images in this module.
Learn how fashion imagery connects with audiences and develop key skills in styling, photography, and communication.
You'll source garments, models, and beauty teams, then bring your vision to life through striking visuals.
Plus, you'll create a fashion styling video for social media and explore the work of top stylists.
Ready to stand out in the world of journalism?
In this module, you'll create a strong CV and cover letter, build a professional online presence, and connect with industry experts.
Gain hands-on experience with a media work placement and discover how journalism businesses really work through interactive workshops and expert talks.
By the end, you'll have the skills and confidence to take your first steps in the industry.
Ever wondered what it’s like to work in a real fashion newsroom?
In this module, you’ll experience the atmosphere of a live newsroom by debating ideas, researching, pitching and producing online and multimedia content under real deadlines.
Learn how to craft compelling fashion stories for different audiences and use SEO and data analysis to make your work shine.
Get ready to build the skills and confidence you need to thrive in the industry.
Learn to create compelling stories and bring your ideas to life by creating engaging articles, a magazine, a website, or a podcast on a topic you're passionate about.
Develop essential journalism skills and learn how to pitch a professional project with strong market research, ensuring it reaches the right audience.
Along the way, you'll explore the strengths and challenges of modern journalism while applying key concepts of media law and ethics.
The library is your gateway to information resources and services both on and off campus, all through a single search box.
We have resources and support tailored for your course including: Newstream online full-text access to UK regionals, national, broadsheet and some international newspapers; Box of Broadcasts (BoB) an on-demand TV and radio streaming service; and The World Global Style Network - ideal for Fashion Journalists.
Access 1400 study places, including quiet and silent zones, 300+ PCs, group work hubs, online module reading lists and study skills support, all in our quality learning environments.
You’ll have full use of two libraries, both with extensive opening hours.
And ‘Live Chat’ enables you to access library support and help, from anywhere, 24/7.
We’re much more than a library, the University Library and Study Skills team are on hand to guide you throughout your studies on and off campus from embedded skills sessions, digital skills support to one-to-one and drop-in advice on research and academic skills.
The mediaHUB is a bustling multimedia newsroom on the top floor of our David Puttnam Media Centre where you will get a real taste of life as a working journalist or social media manager.
The mediaHUB runs websites and social media channels covering sport, news, entertainments and fashion, provides the content for news bulletins on our award-winning radio station, Spark, and is responsible for writing and editing Spark magazine.
The ground-breaking workspace is designed to be a professional environment and includes plenty of workstations each with industry-standard software including NewsCutter, Burli and ENPS, and a Sky feed with two 40” plasma screens.
The whole space is managed by an ex-Sky Journalist, who is on hand with her team to point you in the right direction.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the mediaHUB.
Our David Puttnam Media Centre is a buzzing place to study fashion journalism.
As well as working in our mediaHUB on fashion content, you can volunteer with our award-winning radio station Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine.
Get hands on in our journalism and digital editing suites.
Learn from experts in this centre of excellence for training.
Our admissions policy uses a range of flexible options to support you in studying with us.
If you are studying an HND or Foundation Degree you may be able to enter the final year of our degree courses.
For more information, please contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk .
As part of our NCTJ accreditation, we will also invite you to an informal interview.
We’d like to hear about you, why you’re interested in fashion journalism, and tell you a bit more about our course and what makes us special.
The annual, full-time fee is:
The tuition fee includes the NCTJ exam fees.
It covers the cost of one attempt at all seven exams required for the NCTJ Diploma, including each shorthand speed.
Tuition fees for part-time students are £7,145 per 90 credits.
Please note that part-time courses are not available to international students who require a Student visa to study in the UK.
This degree prepares you for a variety of careers in fashion.
You may become a writer for magazines, supplements and newspapers, covering the fashion shows and interviewing designers.
Some of our graduates now work as stylists, either for celebrities (such as Nicole Scherzinger and Jessie J); for a fashion house, such as Burberry; or for a fashion publication, such as You magazine or Mail on Sunday.
Other graduates have moved into public relations, or writing and styling while travelling the globe for retailers such as Gymshark.
The industry qualifications you'll gain from this course also equip you to work as a general features or news writer for a magazine or newspaper.
You’ll be actively involved in the Fashion North website and have the opportunity to get involved in Spark Sunderland , the 24/7 community radio station based in the David Puttnam Media Centre.
Spark has won many awards and holds the Nations and Regions Award for Best Radio Station in the North East.
Students are responsible for all news-gathering, programme production and advertising.
Other opportunities for real-world experience include Spark online magazine and SportsByte, which are linked to our journalism courses.
Our academics are industry experts and have excellent relationships across the fashion industry including Vogue, Grazia, ITV and BBC.
Broaden your horizons with inspiring trips – recently students have enjoyed creating an online autumn/winter lookbook for shopping mall The Bridges, in-store styling challenges at John Lewis, and talks from fashion journalists, stylists, photographers and trend forecasters.
You'll undertake a work placement module in your final year, though many of our students arrange placements for all three years.
Recent student placements at fashion publications include Elle, Grazia, Asos, Harper's Bazaar and Fabulous - the Sun on Sunday’s magazine.
In the past, our students have commissioned and styled fashion shoots for magazines and newspapers, worked on catwalk shows and fashion weeks and provided fashion reports for the websites of major retailers in the North East.
All students studying this course can take up a CV-enhancing work placement, a University-led industry initiative, or a professional and business development boot camp.
By the term placement, we mean we are offering you a taste of the industry which might last anything from two days to four weeks on a part-time basis.
Our students and graduates have been making a splash, winning awards and prizes across the board:
"The programme offered at the University of Sunderland is the best fashion journalism course in the country.
Fashion North is unique, with nothing like it elsewhere.
Students are supported throughout their three years on the degree and continually encouraged to improve their work and achieve higher standards.
The team must be commended for their excellence in both teaching and pastoral care.
Working as a magazine consultant in the industry, I would have no hesitation in recommending this course for anyone who wants to become a fashion or lifestyle journalist."
Mary Hogarth External Examiner and Lecturer at Bournemouth University Author of Writing Feature Articles: Print, digital and online (2019) and Business Strategies for Magazine publishing: survival in the digital age (2018).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr/undergraduate-journalism:
On BA (Hons) Journalism, you'll learn all the essential skills of journalism, producing content for a wide range of print and online platforms while working in our own newsroom under the guidance of staff who have worked for the likes of the Mirror, Grazia, Private Eye and many more.
We'll teach you how to write and research news stories and feature articles; create video and interactive content; design newspaper, web and magazine pages; and become adept in using all the latest digital storytelling tools for websites and social media.
You'll also study the development of journalism and its principles and ethics.
You’ll significantly boost your employability by graduating with both an honours degree and the NCTJ Diploma in Journalism , which is the foremost industry qualification required by most employers in the media.
Teaching methods include lectures, news days, seminars, workshops and group projects.
All our teaching staff have worked as journalists and have strong links with regional employers and industry organisations.
We also invite experienced industry professionals to carry out regular guest lectures and classes.
If you study this course on a part-time basis, you will typically complete 40-80 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All modules are taught during the daytime and you'll be studying alongside full-time students.
Want to report on film, music, gaming, and the arts?
In this module, you'll learn how to cover the entertainment industry with accuracy and flair.
Develop the skills to write news, features, and reviews, while exploring the fast-paced world of showbiz reporting.
You'll gain a deep understanding of entertainment journalism as a professional industry and the tools needed to make your mark.
Want to understand how public services and those in power really work in the UK?
Learn how to uncover stories that keep decision-makers accountable.
Throughout this module you'll explore how journalists serve the public by shedding light on the inner workings of our power structures.
Ready to master cutting-edge digital storytelling techniques that will make your work stand out?
In this module you'll build on traditional journalism skills while learning to create interactive and immersive news content.
Some of the techniques you'll explore are already making waves in modern newsrooms, while others are brand new and evolving.
This module is also experimental and will adapt to the latest trends and developments.
Dive into investigative journalism and gain the skills needed to produce exclusive, impactful content.
Learn in our 200 seat cinema and 7.1 surround sound facility.
Get hands-on in our two broadcast-quality production studios complete with green room and changing facilities.
Access four Steadicam rigs plus dolly, track and mini crane.
Our field camera systems, comprises Blackmagic Ursa, Blackmagic Ursa Mini Pro, Blackmagic 4K Production Camera and the Canon EOS 5D Mark III, with associated location kits, lighting, field monitors and audio mixers.
Go on-air in one of five radio studios, including a larger radio drama studio and a transmission suite for Spark, our award winning student-run community radio station.
Spark has a target audience of 15 to 24 year-olds and broadcasts 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Develop your skills in our digital audio post-production area with voice-over booths and 70 workstations with state-of-the-art HD Edit systems, including Final Cut Pro, Avid Media Composer and Premier Pro.
You'll also use DaVinci Resolve for colour correction.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the David Puttnam Media Centre.
The David Puttnam Media Centre is a thriving place to study and experience media.
Volunteer with award winning radio station Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine in our mediaHUB.
Get hands-on in TV and radio studios and digital editing suites.
We’d like to hear about you, why you’re interested in journalism, and tell you a bit more about our course and what makes us special.
This degree prepares you for a wide range of careers in newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, public relations and new media industries.
It is also highly relevant to many positions in industry, commerce and the Civil Service, as well as to jobs in the arts and voluntary sectors.
You have the opportunity to be actively involved in Spark Sunderland , the 24/7 community radio station.
Spark is award-winning and consistently recognised at the Student Radio Awards, Community Radio Awards and the prestigious New York Festival Radio Awards for many years.
Be inspired by our academics and their strong industry contacts.
Our experienced academics have years of industry expertise at high levels in print, online and broadcasting, including the BBC, Daily Mirror, Grazia, Private Eye and Sky.
Meet regional and national high-profile journalists such as Kevin Maguire, Associate Editor at the Daily Mirror and Visiting Professor in Journalism at the University, and Alastair Stewart, presenter at GB News and formerly ITV News.
Both regularly visit the University, along with a host of experienced journalists to give insight into the industry via masterclasses and lectures.
Broaden your horizons with inspiring trips – recently, students have enjoyed visits to Dusseldorf and to MediaCityUK.
You'll undertake a work placement module in your final year, though many of our students arrange placements across three years.
Recent BA (Hons) Journalism student placements include the Guardian, The Daily Mirror and The Daily Mail.
These placements are often the first step to a dream job in journalism.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr/undergraduate-sports-journalism:
If you are applying for this course from within the UK click apply now.
Sky Sports News, BBC Sport, Manchester United FC, Liverpool FC, Everton FC, Newcastle United FC, golf’s Ryder Cup and DP World Tour, the Williams F1 team, national newspapers – just a few examples of careers that all started with this course.
Report from the press box at Wembley Stadium, interview club executives, visit some of Europe’s finest football stadia, report on professional county cricket, produce your own website, sports TV episode or series of investigative sports articles – all while learning the latest techniques in digital, video and broadcast production sports journalism and studying for UK journalism’s gold standard qualification, the NCTJ Diploma .
You'll gain thorough training for life at sports media’s cutting edge while studying Sports Journalism at Sunderland.
Working in the mediaHUB, you'll build your practical experience and portfolio of published work on SportsByte , our student-run website covering sport across the North East.
Develop cutting-edge sports production techniques using our state-of-the-art TV studios and outside broadcast equipment.
Learn about the day-to-day media operations of major sporting organisations in the Club Journalism module.
Teaching methods include lectures, demonstrations, seminars, workshops, group projects and practical skills work.
Ready to create and share exciting sports content for a professional organisation?
In this module, you’ll learn how to produce, edit, and share exciting multimedia content across digital platforms.
From delivering live matchday updates to crafting compelling stories that connect with fans, you’ll gain real-world experience in sports communication.
You’ll build valuable relationships with athletes, coaches, and the media while learning how to create credible, engaging content that goes beyond the usual promotional material.
Master the skills to manage a constant stream of content, no matter a team’s performance, and keep fans engaged every step of the way.
Plus, you'll also be prepared to tackle public relations challenges in the world of professional sports.
Experience the thrill of live sports broadcasting.
In this hands-on module, you’ll step into the world of live sports coverage, working as part of a team to produce a dynamic, real-time blog and a professional outside broadcast.
You’ll develop essential skills that are in demand in the sports industry, gaining the confidence to deliver compelling sports content.
Bring sport to life on screen with hands-on experience in sports broadcasting.
From filming and editing to presenting and producing, you’ll create dynamic content for TV and digital platforms.
Learn how to run a studio show, capture live events, and deliver compelling sports coverage.
Work as part of a production team to produce a football-based TV episode, seamlessly blending studio discussions with on-the-ground footage.
Build your journalism skills by sourcing and reporting sports news, creating a strong portfolio of published work.
Our David Puttnam Media Centre is a buzzing place to study sports journalism.
As well as working in our mediaHUB on sports content, you can volunteer with our award-winning radio station, Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine in our mediaHUB.
Get hands-on in Journalism and Digital editing suites.
We’d like to hear about you, why you’re interested in sports journalism, and tell you a bit more about our course and what makes us special.
This degree prepares you for writing and talking about sports in newspapers, magazines, radio, TV and online media, as well as for clubs or brands.
Recent journalism graduates from Sunderland have gained experiences with employers such as Sky, Sky Sports, NFL, 4ThePlayer, The Racing Post, MTV, The Guardian, ITV, regional newspapers and PR companies.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle Journalists, get advice from former Sky News Journalists and see a Newsroom in action in our innovative mediaHUB.
You’ll be actively involved in the Sportsbyte website and have the opportunity to get involved in Spark Sunderland , the 24/7 community radio station based in the Media Centre.
You’ll be taught in some of your classes by visiting lecturers who are current sports writers, editors and football club media managers.
Other opportunities for real-world experience include Spark online magazine and Fashion North, which are linked to our Journalism and Media courses.
Our academics are industry experts and have excellent relationships across sports including PFA (Professional Footballers Association) magazine, 4ThePlayer, Sky Sports, ITV and BBC.
Broaden your horizons with inspiring trips – recently students have enjoyed trips to Barcelona, press access to Wembley finals and Europa league games at FC Schalke 04 in Germany.
Our students have attended Premier League matches in the press box to see sportswriters at work and have interviewed sports celebrities themselves.
Two of our students even had a FIFA tournament on the pitch at SAFC with Jordan Pickford and Duncan Watmore.
In addition, our students have also covered tennis, golf, boxing, American Football, F1, hockey, gymnastics and many other sports.
The placement can be at a sports newsdesk, sports magazine or sports club of your choice.
A placement offers you a taste of the industry and can last anything from two days to four weeks, on a part-time basis.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/systemic-anti-cancer-therapy:
This short course is designed for nursing staff and allied health professionals who are caring for patients who are undergoing systemic antic cancer treatment (SACT/Chemotherapy).
The course covers the anatomy and physiology of cell biology and cancer, exploring how it develops in the body .
It will then examine and explore many of the anti- cancer treatments available to patients, their uses and side effects, including cytotoxic chemotherapy/monoclonal antibodies/targeted therapy etc.
T his is the only course of its kind in the Northern Region which is face to face .
This is an 8 week programme, taught on campus by a mixture of University Lecturers and Health Care Professionals working in oncology and associated areas, across the region.
It will be assessed in two parts:
This course will be taught on campus.
To undertake this short course, you: Must be a registrant.
Must have a responsibility for the dispensing/administration of SACT, or be actively caring/involved with patients undergoing these treatments.
Must have evidence of relevant study at level 6.
The fee for this course is £1125 per learner.
The employer usually meets these costs – we advise you to speak to your workforce development lead before applying.
We also accept self-funded applicants and encourage anyone wishing to explore their options to contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk
For more information please contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  14 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/preparation-for-social-work:
Develop the underpinning knowledge and values required in the practice of social work.
Build on your existing skills as a professional.
Work towards gaining eligibility to progress onto the qualifying Social Work apprenticeship.
If you pass the Cert HE, as well as produce a satisfactory personal statement and pass the written requirement for all social work applicants, you'll be guaranteed an interview for the degree apprenticeship.
Completing this social work course will also lead to a standalone, valid qualification for professional development for staff in unqualified roles in social care settings.
The ideas discussed and the skills and knowledge gained on this course will enable you to put what you've learned into practice within your workplace, and also have practical examples to draw upon in your academic work.
The modules studied on this course are based on those in level 4 of the integrated degree apprenticeship, with identical learning outcomes to Stage 1 of that course.
This course is delivered in a different format and you'll study part-time with late afternoon and evening sessions to fit around the working day, and is supplemented by online learning activities.
In addition to the four 30-credit modules studied on the course, if you wish to go on to apply for direct entry to level 5 of the degree apprenticeship, you'll also need to complete a 'Readiness for Practice' portfolio.
This demonstrates that you've met the requirements of the Professional Capabilities Framework for Social Work at the appropriate level.
Develop your academic study skills and resilience strategies in preparation for both undergraduate study and your role in the workplace.
Consider your own approach to learning and your role within groups, by giving and receiving feedback.
Explore the nature of professional learning and familiarise yourself with the frameworks for assessment of professional capability within social work practice.
Examine the role of the social worker and how this has been defined and developed, before considering the importance of personal and professional behaviour and boundaries.
Reflect upon your personal values and gain an introduction to the values, ethics, and standards for social work.
Explore the role of social work with different service user groups and settings.
Study how diversity can relate to discrimination, disadvantage, power, and oppression, and explore how and to what extent social workers can challenge this by promoting social justice and human rights.
Complete Stage 1 of your Professional Standards and Readiness to Practice Portfolio, including evidence of reflection on your personal and professional development.
Engage in a community study where you’ll have the opportunity to enhance your understanding of the complex interaction between the individual and their community.
Explore cultural, economic, and social factors which impact on daily living and social justice.
Reflect on your direct work with service users and carers to develop your interpersonal communication and interviewing skills.
Gain an introduction to the theoretical frameworks from social science disciplines which inform social work practice.
Explore key perspectives in social theory, particularly the conceptual awareness of the relationship between the individual and society.
Enhance your theoretical understanding of the features and development of modern society in order to identify patterns in our social life.
Focus on themes such as the way society is organised, the patterns in social relations, the dynamics of social change, and theoretical explanations of social conflict and inequality.
Develop skills in comparative analysis of social and psychological theories and concepts, relating these key perspectives of social theory towards real world events and issues.
University library services will be central to your study experience and are delivered at our two libraries on campus, as well as online.
Our libraries offer a variety of study environments to meet your needs, including areas for groupwork, individual and silent study.
You’ll also have access to desktop PCs, space to use your own mobile technology and printing facilities.
The library works closely with academic staff within each faculty to offer specialist, industry standard resources in your subject discipline.
The Faculty of Social Sciences provides thousands of relevant books and e-books, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
You’ll also have access to a comprehensive range of print and electronic journals which are always kept up to date, including Project Muse, Lexis, JSTOR and many more.
To find out more information, visit our University Library website .
You'll be based at the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
This stunning riverside location benefits from dedicated library services and has superb transport links with the city centre and City Campus.
This course requires you to be working in a social care role that involves direct contact with service users and/or carers.
The fee for this course is £3,000
We also accept self-funded applicants and encourage anyone wishing to explore their options to contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .
To apply or find out more about this course, please contact the CaPE team: cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/biopharmaceutical-science:
Immerse yourself in the challenging field of drug discovery and development.
Study the development of new drugs, the discovery of diagnostic markers of disease and the assurance of safety, quality and efficacy of manufactured drugs.
Biopharmaceutical science is the study of how biological molecules can be designed, manufactured and used as medicines.
The course puts you at the forefront of recent trends in pharmaceutical research, in which increasing numbers of drugs are coming from large biopharmaceutical molecules.
On graduation, you can look forward to a wide range of career opportunities in a large and growing industry.
Over a quarter of all industrial research in the UK is performed by pharmaceutical companies.
Teaching methods include laboratory practical work, tutorials, lectures, seminars, group work and e-learning.
We encourage you to develop independent study skills.
Assessments help provide feedback and consolidation as well as counting towards your degree.
Assessment methods include laboratory reports, presentations, research essays and examinations.
This course shares a common first year with BSc (Hons) Biochemistry which allows you to easily change course at the end of the first year should one of these routes appeal to you.
Depending on availability of places and subject to interview and compliance checks, you may be eligible to apply to transfer to our (MPharm) Pharmacy course following successful completion of the foundation year of the Pharmaceutical Sciences Integrated Foundation Degree.
All offers will be subject to the discretion of the Pharmacy admissions tutor.
How do chemistry principles apply to pharmaceutical science?
In this module, you’ll build the foundational chemistry knowledge needed for your future studies in the field.
You’ll learn about atomic structure, bonding, the mole and calculations, thermodynamics, acids and bases, chemical equilibria, and reaction kinetics.
In organic chemistry, you’ll explore the reactions of simple functional groups, nomenclature, isomerism, and an introduction to reaction mechanisms.
This module builds on the concepts from Foundation Chemistry, diving deeper into key ideas essential for Pharmaceutical Science.
You’ll explore the quantitative aspects of chemical equilibria and reaction kinetics, along with more complex thermodynamics, pH calculations, and titrimetric analysis of drugs.
New concepts such as molecular orbital theory, hybridisation of atomic orbitals, and the ideal gas  equation will also be introduced.
How do advanced chemistry concepts apply to pharmaceutical science?
In this module, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the chemical principles that underpin drug development and analysis.
How do organic chemistry and biochemistry intersect in pharmaceutical science?
In this module, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the chemical processes and techniques that are essential in the study of biological systems.
You’ll explore mechanisms, resonance, and electronic effects in more detail, along with structural elucidation techniques such as proton nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, and infrared spectroscopy.
The biochemistry part of the module covers biological molecules like carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids.
You’ll also study cells and tissues, enzymes, genetics, and metabolic pathways.
How does the human body work, and what happens when it doesn’t?
In this module, you’ll gain a solid understanding of the body’s systems and the causes of disease.
This module offers a comprehensive introduction to human anatomy and physiology, laying the foundation for studying Biomedical Science, Healthcare Science, and Pharmaceutical Science.
You’ll explore the basic structure and function of the human body, along with what happens when these processes go wrong.
This will help you understand the complex interactions that keep the body functioning and give you an introduction to the pathogenesis of disease.
What makes up all living things and how do tiny cells do such big jobs?
In this module, you’ll learn what life is made of and how cells work together to keep us alive.
You’ll look at the differences between bacteria, viruses, and human cells and how scientists use these differences to make new medicines.
You’ll also get hands-on experience using key lab techniques and safely working with cells
Ever wondered how chemistry helps create new medicines?
In this module, you’ll explore the basics of chemistry that support drug discovery and biological science.
You’ll learn about bonding, acids and bases, how fast reactions happen, and why they release or absorb heat.
You’ll also dive into organic chemistry by making simple molecules and using tools to see what they’re made of.
In this module, you’ll learn how the human body functions, focusing on the roles of different organ systems.
You’ll also discover how various drugs can change the way our body responds.
By the end, you'll have a solid foundation of knowledge that you can build on in future studies.
The pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries are tightly regulated to ensure safe, effective products reach patients and consumers.
Ever wondered how medicines and cosmetics are made safely?
In this module, you’ll learn about important guidelines like Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), as well as specific rules for cosmetics, like the Cosmetic Product Safety Report (CPSR).
You’ll also explore continuing professional development, gaining valuable skills that will support your career throughout your degree and beyond.
Interested in how our bodies stay balanced and how science helps develop medicines?
This module covers important ideas in molecular and cellular biology, focusing on how the body maintains balance (homeostasis) and how molecular biology tools are used to create research tools and medicines.
You’ll also strengthen your critical thinking skills, learning how to evaluate scientific information and make evidence-based conclusions.
Organic chemistry is all about carbon-based molecules, such as their structure, reactivity, and how they’re prepared.
In this module, you’ll build on what you’ve learned in earlier chemistry courses, exploring how organic chemistry is used to design and create pharmaceutical products.
You’ll also get hands-on experience in the lab, making, isolating, and testing simple organic compounds.
What goes into designing and making medicines?
In this module, you’ll explore formulation science, a field that combines physical chemistry, materials science, and pharmacology to design and create medicines.
You’ll learn about the theories behind drug delivery and how modern drugs are formulated and developed into effective dosage forms.
How do you ensure pharmaceuticals are safe and of high quality?
In this module, developed with industry experts, you’ll apply your microbiology and analytical science knowledge to assess the quality and production of pharmaceuticals.
You’ll review customer, regulatory, and incident requirements to ensure safe and effective medicine manufacturing.
Want to see how your studies apply in the real world?
In this placement module, you’ll gain valuable industry experience through a 48-week industrial placement with a relevant organisation, where you’ll apply the knowledge from your first and second years.
You’ll become part of a dedicated team, working under the guidance of a line manager who will evaluate your performance.
Throughout the placement, you’ll also produce a reflective overview of the company and your role, highlighting how you contribute to the success of the organisation.
You’ll carry out original research in a field of your choice, selected from topics provided by the academic staff in the pharmaceutical sciences team.
You’ll be mentored by experts who will guide you through relevant techniques and demonstrate how their research contributes to the pharmaceutical, healthcare, and other industries.
Along the way, you’ll keep accurate records, including lab books, COSHH forms, and risk assessments, while communicating your findings in professional formats.
Ready to conduct your own scientific research and contribute to advancing knowledge?
Curious about how drugs are designed using cutting-edge technology?
This module focuses on modern drug design methods, including the use of advanced computational tools.
You’ll learn through problem-based learning how to investigate the structure and properties of ‘drug-like’ molecules, predicting their binding and energy levels.
These insights will connect to chemical kinetics, thermodynamics, and reactivity, helping you understand how drugs interact with biological targets identified through bioinformatics.
You’ll also explore the latest techniques in hit identification, triage, and prioritisation in the drug design process.
Ever wondered how pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are made?
In this module, you’ll explore the design and manufacture of both pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals.
Building on your earlier studies, you’ll dive into the production of small molecules and biopharmaceuticals, learning about reactor design, processing, purification, and process engineering.
You’ll also cover process design, modelling, and scaling up production.
In this module, you’ll explore advanced pharmaceutical formulation and how drugs are targeted to specific cells.
You’ll learn about delivering small molecules, large macromolecules, and gene therapies.
Covering physical chemistry, pharmacology, and toxicology, you’ll dive into topics like nanomedicine, precision medicine, immunotherapy, therapeutic targeting, cellular mechanisms, and combination therapies.
Based in the Sciences Complex, the Analytical Lab has high-end analytical equipment, including UV, Fluorescence, Infrared and Atomic Absorption Spectrometers, as well as specialist equipment such as Gas Chromatograph-Mass Spectrometers and Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatograph-Mass Spectrometer, which enable analysis of complex mixtures.
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for Fleming Building.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex at our City Campus, which boasts excellent laboratories and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million pound investments.
Biopharmaceutical Science graduates have excellent employment rates as industrially-relevant practical skills are at the heart of the course.
Examples of companies that have employed our graduates include pharmaceutical multinationals such as Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies, Onyx Scientific, Astra Zeneca, and NHS laboratories.
Our graduates have also pursued further study with a masters, PhD or teacher training.
The employability of Sunderland graduates reflects our mix of academic rigour and practical skills.
To enhance this mix, we encourage you to apply to undertake a 48-week placement between your second and final year.
They are an excellent opportunity to put your learning into practice and understand the context for your new knowledge.
Examples of companies that have offered placements to Sunderland students include Sterling Pharma, Lianhetech and GlaxoSmithKline.
We have well-established links with a number of pharmaceutical multinationals and NHS Trusts.
Through these links, we organise a course of guest speakers who discuss the cutting edge of pharmaceutical research and development.
The course helps you relate academic theory to current trends and issues.
It’s all part of broadening your learning so that you’re prepared not just for exams but for life.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/undergraduate-biopharmaceutical-science:
If you are applying for this course from within the UK click apply now
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex on City Campus, which boasts excellent laboratories and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
A Levels must include Chemistry.
Please note we do not accept General Studies AS or A Level.
We accept T Level Science only.
Read more about EU fees and funding in our Help and Advice article.
Page last updated:  13 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-digital-marketing-data-analytics:
If you wish to apply for this course for February, please click apply now.
Course starts: 16 February 2026 Apply now
Access a unique blend of expertise across subject areas.
Develop both digital marketing and analytics knowledge and skills.
Qualify for senior positions in FTSE companies.
This course provides you with the opportunity to study Digital Marketing and Analytics theory and practice in depth.
It is designed for:
• Graduates who wish to convert to a career in Digital Marketing • Graduates from marketing that wish to specialise in Digital Marketing • Marketers who have already gained knowledge or experience of marketing/analytics and seek to further their careers
This course will enhance graduate employability in digital marketing-related business and management careers such as Digital Marketing Manager, Executive, Media Analytics Manager, Owner of Digital Marketing Consultancies and more.
You will learn about many different areas of digital marketing including SEO, online advertising, website development, e-commerce, digital optimisation and social media, influencers and creators.
You will be engaged in the contemporary area of digital marketing and using critical thinking, problem solving, Business Intelligence collection, creative thinking and challenging assumptions using academic sources and case studies in this fast moving area of study.
Examine the key theories, models, and frameworks that support the identification and assessment of market opportunity, the selection of target markets and the evaluation of choices available to marketers to ensure successful and sustainable marketing mix implementation.
Focus on the strategic dimension of marketing, which is a key component of long-term corporate strategy.
Explore sustainable competitive advantage and how marketers must understand the dynamic environment to identify long-term objectives and deliver short-term tactical marketing solutions in an increasingly digital and sustainably aware world.
Examine the considerations of a digital marketer in addressing the behaviour and expectations of the contemporary customer in both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) markets, be they local, national, or global.
Build digital marketing knowledge and practical skills required to deliver digital marketing in the workplace.
Undertake a practical case study where a digital marketing consultant role is adopted.
Gain an understanding of social media theories/applications and digital research.
Study research literature from a wide range of disciplines, including computing, cyber-psychology, sociology, consumer behavior, and marketing.
Consider the evolution and range of social media platforms, including convergence and hybrid media.
Explore key concepts and models in social media strategy, such as consumer engagement, customer experience, e-word of mouth (e-WOM) and pervasiveness.
Build on generalised digital marketing by focusing on selling online and e-commerce, and third-party marketplaces such as Amazon and eBay.
Consider the evolution and range of e-commerce platforms, including pure-play businesses and hybrid sales models.
Cover key concepts and models in e-commerce strategy, such as discoverability and buyability of product ranges.
Study international issues such as accessibility, legal and cultural issues.
Get equipped with the necessary tools and transferable skills to take into your subsequent careers.
Develop analytical, evaluative, digital and lifelong learning skills by investigating a pertinent problem in digital marketing and exploring a range of relevant literature.
Working autonomously, develop knowledge and skills of the research process and apply research methods to design, manage, and execute an appropriate research project.
The exact list of modules available will depend on student demand and resource availability.
The Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s is nestled between the River Wear and the sea, just two minutes from the coast, and set in expansive green space on the banks of the river next to the historic St Peter's Church.
This provides a picturesque backdrop and a great location for travelling to the beach or the city centre.
The Reg Vardy Centre is a self-contained teaching and learning facility which houses a café as well as a specially designed discussion and breakout area.
The building is also home to the University’s Moot Court and features high-spec IT equipment throughout all of its lecture and seminar rooms.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Reg Vardy Centre.
You’ll be based across both The Reg Vardy Centre and David Goldman Informatics Centre on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
Both centres feature modern buildings with views of the river, and are just a short walk from both the coast and Sunderland town centre.
This is a specialist postgraduate degree.
You may have a degree relating to marketing, business, computing, or another subject.
Alternatively, you may have considerable experience in the workplace in any of these areas.
You should have: A first or second-class honours degree.
Alternatively, you may possess a professional qualification (or combination of qualifications) recognised as the equivalent of an honours degree.
Applicants who do not meet these requirements may be considered by exception (normally following an interview) at the discretion of the programme leader A demonstrable interest in marketing or business if you have a computing background International students may be required to take the English for Business Purposes course in the month leading up to the start of the postgraduate academic year in October.
International students may be required to take the English for Business Purposes course in the month leading up to the start of the postgraduate academic year in October.
This course will enhance your employability in digital marketing-related business and management careers such as a Digital Marketing Manager, Digital Owned Media Manager, Digital Marketing Executive, Digital Project Manager, Assistant Digital Manager, Digital Communications Manager, Marketing Analytics Manager, Media Evaluation & Analysis and a Owner of a Digital Marketing Consultancy.
The course aims to introduce you to contemporary marketing theory and practice and the importance of digital marketing in today's society.
A research-led teaching philosophy informs the programme.
The Programme gives opportunities for real life experience with links to The Chartered Institute of Marketing and professionals working in industry.
We invite business leaders into the University to share their experiences with students including Visiting Professor of Marketing, Professor Anthony Patterson, University of Liverpool.
Learning from business professionals can be very useful if you’re not sure what career to pursue when you graduate.
If you already have a plan for your career, these events are an excellent way to start building a network of business contacts.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Business, Law and Tourism.
Page last updated:  12 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/postgraduate-nursing:
To apply for the full time course click apply now.
Build on your experience, knowledge, and skills of nursing and take your career to the next level.
Develop understanding of research and health needs that directly relate to the NHS and other employers.
Gain a wider perspective of healthcare and a valuable network of contacts with a range of health professionals.
The MSc Nursing course builds on the knowledge, skills and experience you've already gained from an undergraduate degree in nursing and will enable you to further develop your skills of critical enquiry, using evidence in practice, and develop your confidence in undertaking research.
You’ll learn how to further develop yourself as a leader and enable change and continuous improvement in practice.
Nursing is increasingly a profession where higher qualifications are essential, so a nursing master's degree can help you in pursuit of higher level management, education or clinical roles within healthcare settings both in the UK and overseas.
This will allow you to advance your professional career, making a greater contribution to people’s health and wellbeing and the quality of the experience of service users, carers and families.
The MSc Nursing course mixes taught elements with independent research and self-directed study.
There is flexibility to pursue personal interests in considerable depth, with guidance and inspiration from our supportive tutors.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, case studies, presentations, group work, directed study and tutorials.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this nursing master's degree requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment methods include essays, reports, case studies, exams and presentations.
Gain a thorough understanding of the research process, including identifying a question and selecting an approach; collecting and analysing data; preparing reports; and preparing for presentations and publishing.
Explore the importance of health research by examining both qualitative and quantitative methods.
Gain critical skills in how to appraise other published research and evaluate different levels of theoretical explanation in the context of it competently and confidently.
Explore inequalities in global health systems and the underlying structures of public health with respect to how the health systems of different countries are influenced.
Gain knowledge around topics such as globalisation, wealth disparity, and climate change, and how they influence the health outcomes in populations across the world.
Examine the complexities of inequalities and social determinants of health, considering how healthcare systems are governed and how they are related to individuals and wider populations.
Examine the relationship between theory and practice, critically exploring the meaning of evidence-based practice.
Gain an understanding of models of teaching and learning in a practice context.
Explore the role of the mentor and evaluate the contemporary issues which relate to mentoring models, including confidentiality and sensitivity.
Analyse ethical practice and professionalism and identify the consequent implications for work-based assessment.
Discuss methods of assessment in the context of the learning organisation and explore the perspective of the ‘learner’.
Gain an introduction to the immensely complex management and leadership theory and its influence in the context of health.
Explore how leadership is fundamentally the most influential factor in shaping culture organisationally and ensuring leadership behaviours and strategy are developed.
Critically debate the similarities and differences in leadership and management roles.
Recognise the importance of developing effective relationships and leading effective organisational change.
Review the behaviour traits of effective leaders and managers.
Explore the role of ethics in organisational management and globalisation, including leading equality and diversity.
Conduct a research project in an area of your own interest, overcoming challenges in data collection and analysis to produce valid results.
Become a practitioner who is capable of independent critical thinking in the clinical and academic setting of the 21st century.
Develop the applied research capabilities of healthcare professionals relevant to current employment and compatible with your desired career aspirations.
Rationalise your project in terms of usefulness, ethical stance, and practical application, alongside a rigorous approach to the design and methodology underpinning your work.
Learn more about alternative jobs for nurses
Explore the career paths available in nursing
We’ve got thousands of relevant books and e-books, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
We also subscribe to a comprehensive range of print and electronic journals so you can access the most reliable and up-to- date academic and industry articles.
This course is based at the Sciences Complex in our City Campus, which has benefited from multi-million pound investment.
Teaching takes place in multimedia classrooms with state-of-the-art resources for learning.
We require applicants to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree in nursing.
If English isn't your first language, you'll need a British Council International English Language Testing System (IELTS) overall score of 6.5 (or equivalent), with at least 5.5 in each band.
After 6 April 2015, you must take your IELTS exams at one of the test centres listed on the UKVI website.
If you took your IELTS exam before 6 April 2015, this doesn't apply, and your qualification is still valid regardless of which test centre you used.
2025/26 fees:
Part-time study is not available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
A master's in nursing could boost your prospects of promotion to a more fulfilling role and a higher band of salary.
A promotion to a higher band of pay can quickly ensure a good return on investment.
Within the NHS, salaries for nurse team managers are rated as band 7 and salaries for nurse consultants are rated as band 8.
By the end of the MSc Nursing course, you'll have a wider perspective of healthcare generally, as well as a valuable network of contacts with a range of health professionals.
You'll also have gained additional credibility as a practitioner.
As a result, you'll have new and varied career options.
Find out more about where a career in nursing could take you .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/undergraduate-nursing-tu:
To apply for the full time route click apply now.
Course starts: 02 February 2026 Apply now
'Top-up' a registered nursing qualification to a full honours degree in one year of study.
Develop your advanced clinical expertise, theoretical knowledge and professionalism.
Enhance skills that allow you to meet a wider range of challenges within the clinical nursing environment.
This course is designed to top-up a registered nursing qualification.
You’ll be taught by an enthusiastic team of skilled professionals, and all members of the team have at least one specialist area of both clinical and teaching expertise.
They're also actively involved in healthcare research and consultancy work.
All learning on the Nursing (Top-Up) course is underpinned by evidence-based practice that promotes the development of high-quality healthcare provision.
There's a strong emphasis on relating nursing theory to clinical practice.
The course is carefully structured to enhance skills that allow you to meet a wider range of challenges.
We work hard to ensure you have all the support that you need to build your confidence and professionalism.
Places are available to study this course at our London campus on several dates throughout the year.
Find out more and apply online .
Please note that the course is not approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and does not lead to registration with the NMC.
It's an academic top-up for Level 1 NMC Registered nurses** or Internationally Educated Nurses, who have a licence to practise in their country of qualification as a qualified nurse.
**UK students must be a 1st level registered nurse with a recognised regulatory nursing organisation and hold a Higher Education Diploma Level Nursing qualification (NQF Level 5).
In the UK, a Level 1 nurse is a nurse who has completed a three-year programme of education leading to a nursing qualification/academic qualification (a degree or diploma) which excludes students who are working outside of this remit/status on the NMC register e.g.
Nurse Associates.
We use various methods of teaching including lectures, seminars, workshops, tutorials, independent learning and group work.
Each module involves an element of assessment using methods designed (where appropriate) to support professional development in clinical practice.
How does the world we live in shape people’s health, and what can we do about it?
Explore how global and national issues like poverty, environment, and inequality affect health and healthcare.
You’ll compare the UK’s health system with other countries around the world and examine how factors such as age, location, socioeconomic status, and migration contribute to health inequalities.
You’ll also examine how poor health impacts families, communities, and economies, and how communication can be adapted to support people from marginalised groups.
What kind of leader and innovator do you want to be in healthcare?
Explore how leadership and management work together to drive innovation in health services.
You’ll reflect on your own leadership style, study change management theory, and consider how technology and patient involvement are shaping modern care.
You’ll also plan and critically discuss your own healthcare innovation using a recognised improvement model, bringing together everything you’ve learned to imagine better ways of delivering care.
How can research and evidence shape the future of healthcare, both locally and globally?
Learn how to evaluate research and policy to improve nursing and healthcare practice.
You’ll explore what makes research trustworthy, how public involvement can strengthen it, and the challenges that come with it.
Discover different research methods, including decolonial approaches, and consider the legal and ethical issues that affect both care and research.
With a hands-on approach to learning, you’ll apply what you study in real-world contexts and reflect on how these skills will support your future practice and career.
What kind of nurse and leader do you aspire to be?
Reflect on the skills and knowledge needed for your continued development in healthcare.
Explore how the changing role of the nurse affects your practice, professionalism, and ability to advocate for patients.
You’ll consider how intersectionality and parity in care influence clinical decisions and health policy.
Learn how to support junior staff through teaching and mentorship, and what it means to lead with cultural awareness and inclusion.
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing Top-Up degree allows you to top-up a registered nursing qualification to a full honours degree in just one year of study.
Here, you can explore all the reasons why studying on the Nursing Top-Up course could be a great idea.
Learn more about the Nursing Top-Up degree
The University of Sunderland offers modern and well-equipped facilities at our Sciences Complex.
Please note that the course is not approved by the NMC and does not lead to registration with the NMC.
This course is an academic top-up for level 1 NMC Registered nurses** who are seeking to become a graduate nurse, or internationally educated nurses who have a licence to practise in their country of qualification as a qualified nurse and looking to become a graduate nurse.
You're required to be either: A registered nurse with a licence to practise (e.g., Level 1**, NMC registration) and be required to provide evidence of your NMC statement of entry/PIN, OR An internationally educated nurse (with a country licence) and provide your transcript of training and academic qualifications.
In addition to the above requirements: If English isn't your first language, please see our English language requirements .
**UK students must be a level 1 registered nurse with a recognised regulatory nursing organisation and hold a Higher Education Diploma Level Nursing qualification (NQF Level 5).
In the UK, a Level 1 nurse is a nurse who has completed a three-year course of education leading to a nursing qualification/academic qualification (a degree or diploma) which excludes students who are working outside of this remit/status on the NMC register, e.g.
**We're unable to accept international applicants for part-time study who require a Student visa to study in the UK.
Given the increasing emphasis on degree level qualifications for nurses, this Nursing (Top-Up) course is a valuable stepping stone towards more senior roles and greater responsibility.
Recent graduates from this course have gone on to develop their nursing careers both within the UK and in other countries.
This nursing course gives you more flexibility to move between different types of nursing jobs.
Interests can and do change over time.
This qualification helps ensure that you're always in demand and can work where you like.
Like all our courses, this nursing degree has a strong emphasis on real-world learning that equips you to deliver and achieve more in the workplace.
If you're an international student, please be aware that successful completion of this Nursing (Top-Up) course will not make you eligible to work as a nurse in the UK.
In order for you to work as a nurse in the UK, you must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) .
Our course does not lead to professional registration with the NMC.
Page last updated: 16 April 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/leading-volunteers:
Build strong relationships, maintain motivation, and ensure volunteers have a rewarding experience.
This masterclass is aimed at team leaders, coordinators, staff, and volunteers working in charities, community groups, and voluntary sector organisations across Sunderland.
Designed for those with little or no formal leadership training, the course provides practical tools and strategies to lead volunteers effectively.
Participants will develop the skills and confidence needed to build positive relationships, maintain motivation, and create meaningful volunteer experiences that support both individual and organisational goals.
Following successful completion of this course, participants could progress to other short courses in Leadership.
For those with relevant experience who want to grow as strategic leaders, the Senior Leader MBA helps participants explore their intrapersonal development, build high-performing teams, and contribute to sustainable strategic goals.
Alternatively, the MBA Top-Up allows learners to build on their managerial experience and qualifications, further their professional development, and gain an advantage in an ever-evolving job market.
In this masterclass, you’ll cover the fundamentals of leading volunteers, including retention, and engagement strategies.
You’ll also explore how to communicate effectively, handle challenges, and create a positive team culture.
The course combines interactive discussions and practical exercises to help you apply what you learn straight away.
This course will take place on campus for one f ull day on November 3 2025, running 9am to 5pm.
To be eligible to receive this course fully funded, you must be employed by a Sunderland-based business.
If you are self-funding, your suitability will be assessed by an academic on completion of the application form.
The fee for this course is £125.
You may be eligible to receive this course fully funded through the UKSPF Sunderland Skills and Inclusion Programme.
To be eligible for this funding, you must be employed by a Sunderland-based charity or Voluntary Sector organisation , excluding the public sector.
For further information about funding opportunities, please email skills@sunderland.ac.uk .
For more information about this course, contact: skills@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/postgraduate-integrative-counselling:
Undertake comprehensive training as a counselling practitioner to work across diverse contexts and settings.
Gain a critical awareness of current problems and contemporary discourses in counselling and psychotherapy.
Develop a comprehensive understanding and competence in the practical application of the clinical skills underpinning practice.
Counsellors work across diverse contexts and settings ranging from private practice to the charitable and public sectors.
If you are passionate about and have an interesting in helping others who experience difficulties in their lives, struggle with emotional or relational concerns, or experiences mental health difficulties then training as a counsellor may be for you.
There is a focus on reflexive practice as a core component throughout your studies as you gain the knowledge and skills to work with complex moral, ethical, and professional issues.
Principles of anti-oppressive practice support you to work in systematic and creative ways which recognises the intersection of issues of difference and diversity and the role of self in interactions with others.
The course has several unique features including its focus on discourses in mental health and the role of the counsellor within contemporary mental health workforces.
In addition, there is the option to pursue either a focus in counselling children and young people or counselling adults in year two of your studies (subject to numbers) with the name of your award reflecting this focus.
Whichever option you choose you will develop the specialist skills for working with these client groups informed by experienced practitioners and current research, theory and practice.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, workshops, and tutorials.
A diversity of assessments are used across the course including presentations, case studies, reports, viva’s, essays, and reflective work.
You will undertake a clinical placement of 100 hours during which you will work with real clients within a counselling organisation supervised by an experienced practitioner.
This is a requirement to qualify and register with the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) and the National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS).
You will need to find your own placement but will be supported in this process.
This module explores humanistic approaches to therapy, with a special focus on Person Centred counselling theory and practice, focusing on core relationship qualities and skills that help build a strong counselling relationship.
You’ll develop a deeper understanding of humanistic approaches and their role in today’s therapy practice.
As the module progresses, you’ll also explore modern developments in humanistic approaches and how these ideas are applied in NHS talking therapy services.
How can you prepare for the challenges of clinical placement?
In this module, you’ll develop a deeper understanding of the ethical and practical aspects of counselling while tracking your growth as a practitioner.
This module covers the practical, ethical, and legal issues you’ll face as you prepare for your clinical placement as a counsellor.
Each week, you’ll explore a different topic while working to secure your clinical practice opportunity.
You’ll also keep a personal journal to reflect on your learning and development, focusing on the balance between your personal and professional selves as you grow in your counselling journey.
How can you apply Psychodynamic and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy CBT approaches to real-world counselling?
In this module, you’ll expand your skills, deepen your understanding, and gain hands-on experience in a professional setting.
You’ll study psychodynamic therapy, focusing on attachment and object relations, while tracing the origins and current developments of these ideas.
In CBT, you’ll explore both cognitive and behavioural approaches, alongside the latest developments in the field.
As part of this module, you’ll complete 60 hours of supervised clinical practice as a trainee counsellor, where you’ll actively engage with peers to address practice issues and demonstrate ethical and professional application of your knowledge.
How can research shape the treatment of mental health difficulties?
In this module, you’ll learn how to connect research with real-world practice and prepare to engage with mental health studies, including a comprehensive understanding of current debates and challenges surrounding mental health care.
It takes a holistic approach to mental health, exploring the concept beyond diagnostic categories and considering the client’s experience at the heart of understanding mental health concerns.
How can you tailor your counselling skills to work with children and young people?
In this module, you’ll gain hands-on experience while reflecting on your practice to improve and meet professional standards.
You’ll explore current research, evidence, and professional guidelines to understand various contexts for working with this age group.
For this module, you must secure a placement where you can counsel children and young people under appropriate supervision to undertake this module.
You’ll complete a clinical placement with children and young people, where you’ll evaluate your personal and professional growth.
You’ll assess how well you meet best practice guidelines and create an action plan to address any areas for improvement.
This module delves into various perspectives on counselling integration, examining both traditional and modern approaches in theory and practice.
A major focus is on evidence based practice where you’ll explore contemporary developments and future directions in the field of counselling.
You’ll also reflect on the importance of ongoing professional development as a counsellor, ensuring you continue to grow and improve throughout your career.
How can integrating different counselling approaches enhance your practice?
In this module, you’ll explore the evolving landscape of counselling and the role of continuous development in becoming an effective practitioner.
In this module, you’ll explore how to develop a deeper understanding of your counselling practice.
How are you applying theory, research, and professional ethics to the challenges you face with clients?
You’ll reflect on your work and how to improve your skills, considering the complexities of different client groups and situations.
By the end, you’ll have gained valuable insights into your personal growth as a practitioner and the key elements of effective counselling practice.
We’ve got thousands of books and e-books on health studies with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
We also subscribe to a comprehensive range of print and electronic journals so that you can access the most reliable and up-to-date academic and industry articles.
We have specialist psychological and computer laboratories for our counselling, forensic, clinical and psychology courses, plus the ‘Sandbox’, a dedicated space for you to develop ideas collaboratively.
Our specialist facilities include:
Psychology is based in the Murray Library on City Campus, close to the city centre and a three-minute walk from the University metro station.
Teaching will take place in locations across City Campus, including in the new teaching and learning space in the Murray Library.
We also have a range of excellent library resources you can access.
The course is open to any graduate who holds a 2:2 Degree classification and has experience of using counselling skills in a helping role.
The course is particularly suited to: Graduates of health and social care related programmes.
Graduates of Psychology with counselling programmes (graduates of other psychology programmes would also be considered where they can demonstrate experience of using counselling skills, e.g.
clinical psychology, or forensic psychology courses where there was a skills focused element to training) Teachers who have pastoral roles seeking to enhance their skills.
Social work graduates.
Other graduates with experience working in a helping role, for example, such as working as a bereavement support volunteer with Cruse Bereavement Care, a mental health support worker, a Samaritan, a listener or befriender etc.
Degree holders who do not have any experience in a helping role may be required to complete a level 3 counselling certificate before being admitted onto the course.
Your completed application will be reviewed by our Admissions team to ensure that you have the required entry qualifications.
If you meet these requirements, your application will be individually assessed by the Admissions Tutor and, if successful, you'll be shortlisted for interview.
Fees are £500 per 10 credits.
We are unable to accept international applicants for part-time courses who require a Student visa to study in the UK.
Additional costs for this course may include student membership fees of BACP and/or NCPS.
Students will need to gain student membership of a professional body in counselling.
This can be either the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) OR the National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS).
Both bodies offer discounted membership for students, please refer directly to these bodies for details.
Students may need to purchase their own professional indemnity insurance if their placement does not provide cover.
Teaching staff can provide advice on this.
Students may need to pay for clinical supervision if not covered by their placement.
The cost would be negotiation with the clinical supervisor, but fees can range from £45 - £80 per session and would need to be for a minimum of 1.5 hours per month or a ratio of 1:8 client hours whichever is applicable whilst the student is in placement.
Students would need to pay for personal therapy at a fee negotiated with their therapist.
There is a requirement that students would have 20 hours of personal therapy in total.
A minimum of 10 hours of personal therapy in their first year of the course and a further 10 hours spread across year 2 and 3 of the programme.
The cost of personal therapy can range from £20-80 per hour.
Graduates of the MA will be qualified as professional counsellors and able to work within the voluntary or statutory sectors as well as in private practice.
With this qualification, you can work in industries such as:
Page last updated:  04 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/advanced-safeguarding-adults:
Develop your knowledge of social work in relation to adult safeguarding.
Share and evaluate your own practice.
Progress from a newly qualified social worker to experienced social worker.
Aimed at current social work/care practitioners and other related professions, this short course will explore various areas of practice in Adult Safeguarding.
You'll critically evaluate legislation, guidance and the theories and models underpinning safeguarding practice, explore current research in several areas of contemporary safeguarding practice, and share knowledge and experience with other practitioners.
Teaching and learning will include a recap of the legislation and guidance that mandates practice in safeguarding under s.42 of the Care Act and exploration of recent and current research into safeguarding.
Successful completion of the course will help you to evidence development along the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF) for social work (BASW, 2018) from newly qualified social worker to experienced social worker.
The course is delivered at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's over four months between 9:30am and 4:30pm on the following dates:
The submission date is 9 July 2026.
You'll be expected to complete additional reading into areas of your interest and also have the opportunity to share and evaluate your practice alongside other students in your cohort.
Issues will be explored through discussion, reading, case study, and application of knowledge.
You'll demonstrate your learning via a negotiated assessment in discussion with the course leader.
Teaching and learning will take place at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
This course, worth 30 credits, is suitable for qualified and registered social workers.
Applicants from other safeguarding roles may be considered – please contact the course leader to discuss: kristy.regan@sunderland.ac.uk .
The fee for this course is £750.
Page last updated:  29 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/health-clinical-sciences/undergraduate-biomedical-science:
Our biomedical science degrees prepare you for working in the NHS as a biomedical scientist, industry, research and other related fields.
Gain expertise in fields such as medical microbiology, immunology, haematology, cellular pathology and clinical biochemistry.
Work towards one of four possible Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) accredited degree titles.
This unique course allows you to work towards one of four possible degree titles:
This is the core IBMS accredited degree that you are applying to and will start.
Other routes below are optional and competitive and will be available to apply for during your studies.
Studying Biomedical Science will develop your knowledge of scientific investigation into human health and disease, through learning how the human body functions and what happens when disease affects it.
You'll develop a thorough understanding of biomedicine and acquire specialist knowledge in medical microbiology, immunology, cellular pathology, haematology and clinical biochemistry.
The course content is the same as Biomedical Science, but you'll undertake a 40-week placement in an NHS lab between your second and final year.
Placements are subject to availability and an interview with the placement provider is required.
The placement allows completion of your IBMS registration portfolio and you'll be eligible to register as a Biomedical Scientist with the HCPC upon graduation.
The course content is the same as Biomedical Science, but you'll have the opportunity to undertake a placement year in industry between your second and final year of your degree.
Depending on the availability of suitable placements, and subject to interview, you may be able to switch from a degree in Biomedical Science to Healthcare Science, specialising in one of the following areas: Blood Sciences, Cellular Sciences, Genetic Sciences, and Infection Sciences.
The course content is the same as Biomedical Science with increasing focus on your specialist area in year three, but includes a series of integrated clinical placements in an approved clinical training laboratory.
The placements allow completion of your IBMS registration portfolio and you'll be eligible to register as a Biomedical Scientist with the HCPC upon graduation.
This course has been designed to develop Biomedical Scientists who will play a vital role in modern healthcare, but the course also follows a research-active curriculum, promoting development of a wide range of subject-specific and transferable skills valuable to employers.
Teaching methods include traditional lectures, lab-based learning, workshops, seminars, case-based learning, group work, and one to one tutorials.
In addition, there is directed and independent study and use of the virtual learning environment.
If you choose to apply for Healthcare Sciences (Life Sciences) and are successful at interview, you will study the same course content as Biomedical Science with increasing focus on your specialist area in year 3, but will follow a series of integrated clinical placements each year in an approved clinical training laboratory.
For queries about part-time entry, please email the course leader Dr Noel Carter at noel.carter@sunderland.ac.uk .
What skills do you need to succeed in healthcare and science?
In this module, you’ll explore the key skills that shape careers in science and healthcare.
You’ll learn how to care for patients, write clearly about science, and understand how rules and safety laws affect work in labs.
From hands-on clinical practice to reflective writing, this module helps you build the skills needed for the NHS and beyond.
It’s designed to prepare you for further study and a wide range of professional roles.
In this module, you’ll explore how chemical reactions power the body and how molecules like DNA, proteins, fats, and sugars work together to keep cells alive.
You’ll learn about acids and bases, how energy is made in mitochondria, and how cells send and receive messages.
Topics include protein synthesis, transcription, and how cells stay in balance.
You’ll also develop lab skills like titration, spectrophotometry, chromatography, and flow cytometry to support your learning.
How do cells build the human body?
In this module, you’ll discover how cells, the body’s building blocks, develop into specialised tissues, organs, and systems.
You’ll explore what happens inside cells, including how they divide, function, and die.
You’ll then study the major organ systems, such as the lungs and heart, and learn how they work together to keep us alive.
Practical sessions will give you hands-on experience with techniques like measuring lung function, helping you link theory to real-world science.
How do tiny microbes affect our health?
In this module, you’ll explore the world of viruses, bacteria, and fungi and how they can help or harm the human body.
You’ll learn how these microbes grow, survive in different environments, and cause disease.
You’ll study how the body defends itself using the immune system, including natural barriers and antibodies.
You’ll also look at how antibiotics are developed and used to fight infections.
In the lab, you’ll learn how to safely handle microorganisms using aseptic techniques and practise key microbiology skills.
How do microbes and tissues help us understand and treat disease?
In this module, you’ll explore how microbes like bacteria and viruses cause infection and how we treat them using biomedical science and bioinformatics.
You’ll study how organ systems are built and learn how examining tissue samples under a microscope helps us diagnose and treat disease.
This module shows how tiny organisms and cells reveal big insights into human health.
In immunology, you’ll dive into how the immune system fights infections and how we use vaccines and immunotherapy to help patients stay healthy.
You’ll explore the different specialisms within a modern NHS blood sciences department.
You’ll learn how clinical biochemistry uses blood and other fluids to diagnose disease.
You’ll study how blood is made, blood transfusions, and how blood components are used in treatment.
How do molecular technologies help us understand health and disease?
In this module, you’ll explore the molecular technologies that power modern diagnostic and research techniques.
You’ll study clinical genetics and learn how bioinformatics helps apply this knowledge to healthcare.
You’ll also learn the basics of research, including how to analyse data using statistics.
Additionally, you’ll study drug metabolism, monitoring, and toxicology, and how these affect patient outcomes.
How does research shape our understanding of biomedical and clinical science?
Dive deep into a current area of biomedical or clinical research and develop the skills to write a detailed literature review on a specific topic, learning how to critically evaluate published research and the methods used.
You’ll also study the peer review process and focus on the research techniques that drive the discoveries in your chosen area of study.
What’s it like to work in an NHS lab?
In this module, you’ll gain real experience in an NHS laboratory related to your area of study.
You’ll start developing the skills, knowledge, and professional behaviours needed for safe and effective scientific practice.
You’ll learn why quality checks, teamwork, and good communication are essential for delivering high-quality, patient-centred care.
This module supports your progress toward becoming a registered Biomedical Scientist, following the standards set by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the NHS Practitioner Training Programme (PTP).
How can you apply your learning to real-world research?
In this module, you’ll use the knowledge and skills you’ve gained so far to design and carry out your own research project.
This will help you grow as an independent scientist and showcase your ideas.
Your project could focus on scientific or clinical research, translational research, policy or service development, or even innovation in the biosciences.
How can you prepare for a successful career in biosciences?
In this module, you’ll explore the key skills and strengths you’ve developed during your programme and learn how to communicate them effectively for job applications.
You’ll also discover the wide range of career opportunities available to biosciences graduates.
Personal development will be a key focus, with an emphasis on student-led learning and self-reflection to help you get ready for the world of work.
In this module, you’ll study pathological specimens and learn how tissue histology helps in diagnosing diseases.
Using case studies and interactive learning, you’ll explore each disease from the perspectives of both patients and clinicians.
You’ll also gain an understanding of how diseases show up at the clinical and cellular levels.
How do we diagnose disorders of metabolism and body balance?
In this module, you’ll study disorders related to acid-base balance, electrolytes, and the endocrine system.
You’ll learn about clinical tests used in paediatric biochemistry, neonatal screening, and cancer detection.
Through case-based learning and practical labs, you’ll evaluate the procedures used in biochemical investigations.
You’ll also learn to interpret clinical and lab data to diagnose biochemical diseases.
In this module, you’ll explore the human genome and how gene activity is regulated.
You’ll learn about the genetic causes of diseases and how this knowledge is leading to new treatments like gene therapy and genome editing.
You’ll also study key advancements in clinical genetics, such as whole-genome sequencing and its role in personalised medicine.
The module will cover how genetic testing helps predict drug responses, improving treatments for patients.
How do microbes cause infection and how can we fight them?
In this module, you’ll explore the molecular basis of how bacteria, fungi, protozoa, and viruses cause infections.
You’ll study how antibiotics work and why some bacteria become resistant.
You’ll also learn how infections are diagnosed using both traditional and modern methods, and how bioinformatics tools are used in medical microbiology.
The role of epidemiology and public health in controlling outbreaks will be covered, along with safe lab practices for handling harmful microorganisms.
In this module, you’ll explore how the immune system decides between fighting infections and maintaining tolerance.
You’ll study how the immune system interacts with cancer and how infections can lead to allergic and autoimmune diseases.
You’ll also learn how to assess strategies that modulate the immune response to improve human health.
Through lab work, you’ll test and analyse data to diagnose immune system defects.
How do blood and bone marrow disorders affect health?
You’ll study diseases caused by problems with the bone marrow or blood cells, such as anaemia, cancer, and bleeding disorders.
You’ll learn about the safe preparation of blood products and how they’re used in treatment.
Through practical work and case-based learning, you’ll explore lab procedures for blood investigations and transfusion science.
You’ll also interpret clinical and lab data to diagnose blood-related diseases.
In this module, you’ll begin developing essential skills for careers in biomedical and healthcare science.
You’ll practise clinical skills such as taking patient observations and understanding care pathways.
You’ll explore professional responsibilities like maintaining patient confidentiality, following health and safety laws, and working with integrity in the lab.
You’ll also build academic skills, including how to write scientific reports and reflect on your learning.
This module helps you understand the realities of working in the NHS and gives you the tools to succeed in both study and future practice.
You’ll also learn to interpret clinical and lab data to diagnose biochemical diseases
What does working in an NHS lab teach you about real-world science?
In this module, you’ll gain hands-on experience in an NHS laboratory linked to your area of study.
You’ll start developing the technical skills, knowledge, and professional values needed for good scientific practice.
You’ll learn how teamwork, communication, and quality assurance all play a vital role in delivering safe, effective, and patient-centred care.
This module supports your journey toward professional registration as a Biomedical Scientist, in line with HCPC and NHS Practitioner Training Programme (PTP) standards.
On this module, you’ll get real-world experience in a hospital lab linked to your area of study.
You’ll build your science skills, learn how to work safely, and understand what it means to care for patients through good lab practice.
You’ll also see how teams work together to give the best care.
This hands-on learning helps prepare you for a career as a Biomedical Scientist, and meets key training standards in the NHS.
Our Patient Diagnostic Suite is a multi-professional facility featuring a range of near patient testing/point of care resources for audiology, cardiology and laboratory medicine assessment and diagnostics including consultation areas for simulated patient assessment and feedback.
For applicants wishing to apply for an NHS placement (applied or PTP route) during their studies, a clear DBS at the time of application to the placement (not to the course) is required.
Additionally, due to course-specific regulations, an IELTS score of 7 is required for international applicants wishing to complete an NHS placement.
If you currently serve (or have recently served) within the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence's ELCAS scheme may be able to help cover your funding for this course.
Your career options will vary according to the path you choose and the title of your final degree.
Your experience and skills will also give you an edge in applying for any jobs where a strong science background is an advantage.
Potential employers include the NHS, medical research institutions, clinical laboratories, pharmaceutical drug companies, scientific distributors and manufacturers and molecular biology companies.
Many of our students go on to further study including masters, PhDs, Medicine and teaching (via the PGCE route).
A compulsory 40-week placement in NHS pathology department is strongly associated with increased employability in the NHS upon graduation.
At an entry level, the work involves supporting healthcare professionals in diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of disease while working as part of a multidisciplinary team that includes doctors and nurses.
Blood Science / Cellular Science / Infection Science / Genetic Science
If you switch to this degree, you'll be well-prepared to apply for roles as a healthcare scientist or biomedical scientist in the NHS.
At an entry level, the work involves supporting healthcare professionals in diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of disease whilst working as part of a multidisciplinary team that includes doctors and nurses.
Read more on NHS careers .
Page last updated:  11 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-management:
If you are applying for this course for Stage 1 - January, click apply now.
If you are applying for this course for Stage 2 - January, click apply now.
Transform your learning through innovative teaching methods.
Prepare for your career with an industry-led curriculum.
Gain highly employable skills and knowledge in all areas of business.
The BA (Hons) Business and Management course gets you ready for a career in business while giving you the flexibility to focus your studies on an area that interests you.
With an employer embedded within every module, you’ll interact with industry at every step of your journey.
You’ll learn the fundamentals of business, management, and leadership through the context of digital and sustainable business practices.
Whether it’s setting up your own business or working as part of a multi-national corporation, the BA (Hons) Business and Management course will equip you with the skills and capabilities to be an effective manager whatever the organisation.
With an innovative mix of experiential learning and knowledge development in terms of the role, function, and influence of managers and leaders in a changing business world, the BA (Hons) Business and Management course provides you with opportunities for creative, reflexive, innovative, and entrepreneurial skills development in live work environments.
Examples of experiential learning methods include live projects, placement opportunities, workplace shadowing, and panel presentations.
The course features innovative teaching methods and learning by doing and reflecting.
This includes problem-based learning, where you’ll work within a small team to explore issues or decide how to manage a situation.
This helps you to dissect, challenge, and debate issues.
Other learning techniques include guest speakers, and cutting-edge e-learning technologies.
These are in addition to a combination of lectures, seminars, debates, tutorials, and workshops.
Assessment methods include narrative reports, e-portfolios, consultancy projects, negotiated assessments, case studies, reflective statements, audio journals, posters, digital storyboards, blogs, podcasts, and YouTube videos.
Please note, after Year 1, if you decide that you'd prefer your studies to be more specialised, it’s possible to transfer to the Human Resource Management , Finance , or Marketing pathways.
Take an in-depth look at the influence of digital technology on ways of working.
Put a specific focus on ‘Place’ and Society in an international, national and local context.
Develop a global perspective on the influence of technologies on working practices and employee behaviour considering historical, ethical, cultural and societal trends.
Develop a selection of transferable skills for success in future entrepreneurial projects as required by employers and professional bodies.
Establish good practice in self-evaluation and self-development and engage in self-enhancement as part of your professional development.
Gain a foundational understanding of the fundamentals of marketing.
Examine global case studies and develop a broad knowledge base of markets and marketing.
Explore the purpose of marketing in business and organisations.
Accomplish a good understanding of firm’s investment and financial decision making.
Develop techniques to interpret and assimilate accounting information.
Benefit from learning the fundamental knowledge of tools of financial decision making.
Examine the relevant concepts to evaluate professional behaviour and investigate this in the context of success and performance of organisations.
Study some of the problems that can arise in the workplace.
Analyse cause and resolution strategies to enhance performance and engagement.
Explore some of the fundamental and contemporary components necessary to plan, assess and manage successful projects.
Study this in the context of organisational operations, logistics and holistic supply chains.
Develop the knowledge and skills of process and human aspects of project management in delivering organisational success.
Develop a comprehensive national and international understanding of how corporate financial decision-making impacts upon organisational success.
Refine key analytical and interpretive skills within the context of evaluating investment-based portfolios.
Gain a holistic understanding of key topics and concepts in corporate finance including dividend policy, financial statement analysis, sources of finance available to business, mergers and acquisitions, and portfolio analysis.
Build a holistic view of applied marketing through the exploration of contemporary developments, case studies and debates.
Analyse and appraise innovations in marketing thinking and practice that are occurring in response to changes in the marketing environment.
Examine the need for an integrated approach in contemporary marketing practice.
Gain a strong understanding of a business including the identification and examination of an organisational issue, initiative or process.
Examine areas of value to the host organisation.
Develop the relevant practical knowledge and skills under the guidance and supervision of an academic mentor and host business.
Establish the relevant skills and understanding related to strategic leadership and collaboration.
Engage in a critical exploration of theories on the importance of, and approaches to, strategic leadership in organisations.
Understand leadership strategies and their impact on organisational success, resilience and growth alongside the dynamics of personal interaction with colleagues, teams and stakeholders to create collaboration.
Critically understand the management of a modern international business organisation.
Consider issues such as crisis management and contingency planning brought about by changing market conditions.
Grasp the key factors that are required for business resilience and growth.
Examine the fundamental components necessary to effectively source, design, research and disseminate business consultancy projects for small to medium sized businesses and larger companies.
Incorporate an international perspective on consultancy projects.
Consider that the role of a consultancy now requires a blend of both physical and virtual skills.
Carve out an understanding of the unprecedented levels of uncertainty, ambiguity, technological change and globalization that organisations need to be able to adapt to.
Define change and the important role it plays in contemporary organisations.
Recognize the skills needed to address issues related to identifying, planning and leading successful organisational change.
Hear more from Professor Bellamy
One of the best things about studying a degree in a business and management subject is that your career and employment options are incredibly open.
We're taking a look at some of the things you can do with a business management degree.
Find out what you can do with a degree in business and management
Find out more about our business and management courses
The St Peter’s Library contains over 31,000 books related to business, economics, management, human resources, marketing, strategy and tourism.
Added to this, you’ll benefit from a wide range of journals and periodicals in the St Peter’s Library, many of them in an online format.
To help you make the most of the wealth of resources, there’s a full-time librarian who is dedicated to the Business and Tourism sections.
Further resources are available at the main Murray Library, which has a total of over 430,000 books with many more available through the inter-library loan service.
You’ll be based at The Reg Vardy Centre, at The Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
This is home to Sunderland Business School and St Peter’s Library which has thousands of books related to business, economics, management, human resources, marketing and strategy.
Please note that we are unable to accept international applicants who require a student visa to study in the UK for part-time courses.
If you're unsure whether you qualify as a UK, EU, or international student, or want to find out more about EU fees and funding, see our Help and Advice article .
If you currently serve (or have recently served) in the Armed Forces, then the Ministry of Defence's ELCAS scheme may be able to help cover your funding for this course.
Our students graduate with sought-after skills and knowledge across all areas of business and management.
You'll understand how businesses create success, how to manage business operations, how to make informed decisions, and how to lead change in organisations.
The employability-focused curriculum of the course has been designed in collaboration with a range of employers including CDC Wealth Management, Caterpillar, Nissan, Network Rail, NCC Education, NHS, Enterprise Rent-a-Car, Uplift Associates, Sedgefield SSP CIC, Castle Howard, and NRL Ltd.
The faculty-based employability team will support you in securing an optional paid work placement to further enhance your employability between your second and final year.
It effectively becomes a third year of a four-year course and you’ll earn an average salary of £14,000-£18,000 a year depending on your location.
Placements are an excellent opportunity to put your learning into practice and understand the context for your new knowledge.
Our regular programme of guest speakers from industry allows you to listen to people who are already in the type of management position that you may one day hold.
Recent speakers include Maurice Duffy, CEO of Global Blackswan; Mike Johnson, CEO of Castrol and Executive Vice President of BP; Uday K.
Dholakia, Senior Partner of Global Consulting; Neil Stephenson, CEO of ONYX; James Ramsbotham, CEO of the North East Chamber of Commerce; as well as other representatives from a number of our region’s largest employers.
The University supports student-led initiatives that help you gain practical experience of management.
The Business Society organises events and guest speakers, as well as attending tours of various companies.
With its professional approach, it’s a great way to put the lessons about how to make organisations function effectively into practice.
There's something for every student who's studying a subject related to business.
A top-up entry option is available to those who've already successfully completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation Degree and wish to progress onto the final year of the honours degree course.
Topping up your existing HND or Foundation Degree will take one year of full-time study and may open up future career options to you, depending on your chosen career path.
Contact us to find out how you can get credit for your previous learning and top-up your qualification to a range of degrees.
Page last updated:  28 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/certificate-proficiency-hearing-aid-dispensing:
The course will focus initially on developing an understanding of the registration requirements of the Hearing Aid Dispenser in private practice, such as Standards of Conduct, Performance and Ethics, Standards of Proficiency and Standards of Continuing Professional Development.
Students will also gain an understanding of business marketing and planning, consumer rights & protection laws, safeguarding, Health & Safety legislation, and hearing aid / assistive device technologies.
The quality assurance and improvement processes related to independent practice in hearing aid audiology will be explored.
The taught component of this course is designed to be delivered online, with a requirement for an in-person examination at the end of the course at the University of Sunderland’s City Campus.
The Certificate of Proficiency in Hearing Aid Dispensing is accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC)
The course will be delivered online using the University of Sunderland’s virtual learning environment (VLE) Canvas.
The course will be taught o ff-campus with an attended on-campus exam.
The taught component of the course will be delivered over a six-week period by occupationally competent University of Sunderland clinical academic staff.
Each week will comprise two hours of pre-recorded lectures in conjunction with links to directed self-study materials.
There will also be six hours of online live group seminars/activity over the duration of the course to include problem-based case studies and in-depth discussion of the module learning outcomes.
Students are assessed using a combination of formative and summative assessments.
Problem based case studies, group discussions and multi choice quizzes wi ll form the basis of formative assessment s .
The course will be assessed by a summative (attended) MCQ examination , which assesses all the module learning outcomes.
This is a single core module course of 10 credits at Level 5.
Gain an understanding of the principles and legislation related to the role of the Hearing Aid Dispenser in private clinical practice.
This module is designed to meet the registration requirements for Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) for suitably qualified Audiologists.
This course will be taught off campus with an on campus examination.
This programme is aimed primarily at Audiologists who are qualified and practicing as NHS practitioners, who wish to register as Hearing Aid Dispensers with HCPC.
Indicative admissions qualifications include: BSc (hons) Healthcare Science – Audiology BSc (hons) Healthcare Science Practice – Audiology BSc (hons) Audiology BTEC MPPM plus BAAT (Parts 1 & 2) MSc Audiology or equivalent with current registration with HCPC as a Clinical Scientist in Audiology Appropriate international Audiology qualification with current registration with AHCS.
Applicants must have completed a logbook of clinical competence as part of their initial Audiology qualification and have current practice in the field of Audiology.
Applicants must also be able to provide a copy of a current DBS certificate.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) / Accreditation of Prior and Experiential Learning (APEL) not appropriate for this programme.
If English is your second language, we require a minimum of IELTS 7.0 (or equivalent) with a minimum of 6.0 in each element.
Admissions to this course will be assessed on a case-by-case basis and applicants may be invited to attend an informal interview / discussion.
Please contact the programme leader if you would like to arrange an informal discussion before applying: deborah.heatlie@sunderland.ac.uk
The fee for this course is £500.
Please contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk for further information.
Students may need to consider travel/ accommodation costs for the summative on-campus exam.
Page last updated:  21 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/health-clinical-sciences/undergraduate-cardiac-physiology:
The BSc (Hons) Cardiac Physiology degree will follow the National School of Healthcare Science (NSHCS) curriculum designed to train prospective healthcare science practitioners in the specialism of cardiac physiology.
Delivered using a hybrid approach that relies predominantly on a distance learning, the course will initially teach you the fundamentals of professional practice, physiology, and cardiovascular and respiratory science.
You'll then develop these skills further, learning the pathophysiology of disease to the cardiac and respiratory system, alongside current methods of testing for the presence of disease.
By the end of the course you'll be adept at performing and reporting on a range of clinical tests, including 12 lead ECG, ambulatory ECG recordings, non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP), ambulatory blood pressure monitors (ABPM), and exercise tolerance testing (ETT).
You'll also be able to perform as a healthcare science practitioner within invasive environments where cardiac catheterisation and pacemaker implantation procedures take place, as well as have an awareness of the practical application of specialist non-invasive techniques including echocardiography.
You'll participate in six weeks of on-campus clinical simulation during the course, with one week of on-campus teaching delivered each semester.
You'll also complete an integrated programme of clinical placements within a diagnostic cardiology department for a minimum of 50 weeks over the three year course.
You'll study four modules per academic year, two in semester 1 and two in semester 2.
Each module will be taught on one day a week during the semester, meaning you'll be expected to participate in formal sessions two days per week.
These sessions will take the form of virtual lectures and seminars, where you'll take part in a collective class session at the start of the day, complete additional exercises and activities during the late morning and early afternoon, and reconvene as a class at the end of the day to discuss what's been completed.
You'll be asked to come onto campus for one week per semester.
During this time, you'll participate in laboratory teaching, clinical simulation exercises, and problem-based learning activities.
Work-based learning will be delivered through clinical placement where you'll participate in supervised activities within an NHS Trust.
You'll perform a range of procedures within this live hospital environment, allowing you to build on your experience working as a healthcare science practitioner.
Each module will have a combination of summative assessment and formative exercises.
Summative work will be in the form of coursework through written reviews, narratives, evaluations, reflection, and oral presentations.
Examinations will take place at each stage of the course ranging from multiple choice and single best answer quizzes in year 1, through to short answer and essay questions in years 2 and 3.
You'll also complete a clinical logbook and professional portfolio as part of the work-based learning component.
This will involve completing assessments and collecting evidence that will collectively demonstrate your developing knowledge and skills.
Explore the fundamental and professional skills required of a healthcare science practitioner.
You'll learn to work within a patient-facing department, developing an understanding of the patient journey and aspects of their care.
Reflective practice skills will be introduced as part of this module, and you'll develop the tools for personal development to promote employability, while gaining knowledge and understanding in the field of healthcare science relevant for today's NHS.
This module will provide you with underpinning knowledge of the anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system.
You'll develop essential skills that will allow you to safely and accurately perform routine investigations such as 12 Lead Electrocardiography and blood pressure measurement, adopting a patient-centred approach.
Explore the key biological processes that underpin life.
You'll learn how molecular composition controls the biological function of organic molecules.
Study the relationship of cell organelles and their functions with the human genome, and how the genetic code is expressed resulting in changes in cell signalling, division, differentiation, and death.
An understanding of the main human physiological systems will be gained along with how these systems interact on a holistic level to maintain normal body function.
Changes in these systems in response to disease and infection will be introduced, as will an understanding of how the patient’s reaction to illness can be measured by healthcare science practitioners.
This module will provide you with underpinning knowledge of the anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of the respiratory and sleep systems.
You'll develop essential skills that will allow you to safely and accurately perform routine investigations such as spirometry and pulse oximetry, adopting a patient-centred approach.
Develop your knowledge and skills of research methods and statistical analysis, including formulating and testing hypotheses.
You'll calculate a range of statistical variables using dedicated software.
Explore the framework governing research including research ethics.
Leadership skills, critical reflection techniques, and ethical principles that support a patient centered healthcare approach will also be studied.
The principles and practices of clinical audit will also be investigated.
You'll continue to develop your understanding of the human body by focusing on the effects that disease can have on the physiological processes.
The module will compare acquired and congenital disease and discuss a broad range of pathophysiological processes linked to specific diseases that affect the cardiac, vascular, respiratory, and sleep systems.
Embedded within each discussion will be an explanation of how ageing and genetic predisposition impact risk and disease progression.
There will be a broad range of conditions covered, including coronary artery disease, hypertension, asthma, and obstructive sleep apnoea.
Within each discussion, there will be an explanation of diagnostic testing, prognostic assessment, and management.
This module will develop your understanding of 12 Lead Electrocardiogram (ECG) interpretation, a vital aspect of healthcare, and you'll participate in exercises to develop your analysis and interpretive skills.
You'll begin by reviewing the essential characteristics of ECG interpretation including waveform recognition, normal intervals, measurement of rate, and rhythm recognition.
The module will then discuss recognition of abnormal ECG rhythms including supraventricular arrhythmias, ventricular arrhythmias, junctional arrhythmias, bradyarrhythmias, and conduction abnormalities.
You'll also learn how an ECG can be affected by specific disease processes, as well as abnormal metabolic, endocrine, electrolyte states.
In this module, you'll enhance your understanding of a range of diagnostic testing techniques including non-invasive blood pressure measurement, ambulatory Holter monitoring, exercise treadmill testing, and cardiopulmonary exercise testing.
You'll explore the theoretical approach to measurement technique, focusing on how operators can perform high quality measurements, comparing alternative techniques and discussing indications/contraindications.
There'll also be a practical approach to develop your skills in performing these tests.
Analysis and interpretation of results will be covered both independently and within the holistic care of a patient.
In this module, which is aligned with the requirements of the National School of Healthcare Science Practitioner Training Programme, you'll apply the knowledge and skills you've learned during the course to develop and complete a research project.
This project will be carried out in collaboration with a work placement provider.
You'll expand on your knowledge and skills in relation to cardiac catheterisation and cardiac pacing in this module.
You'll cover cardiac catheterisation, encapsulating the range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures that can be performed within this setting.
There'll be a focus on safe working within a multidisciplinary cardiac catheter laboratory team, and also on the development of technical skills to build experience on techniques used within the laboratory.
Cardiac pacing will be discussed, covering the underlying physics of bradycardic pacing, indications and contraindications, implantation technique, and troubleshooting of device and lead malfunction.
This module will develop your understanding of leadership in healthcare by focusing on improvement and innovation within the healthcare setting.
You'll begin by discussing methods of identifying risks to patient safety and finding ways to mitigate these risks.
The underpinning theory of change management will be explored, alongside the practical approaches and barriers to implementing change and innovation.
There'll also be a focus on you as a learner and on different leadership styles that can exist within healthcare.
You'll be asked to reflect on your own practice and link this to the models of leadership that have been discussed.
You'll further enhance your understanding of non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic testing and apply the knowledge to care pathways in this module.
Imaging techniques including CT, MRI, and ECG will be discussed in relation to disease with a particular focus on echocardiography techniques.
There will be an explanation of the physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology of conditions including channelopathies, heart failure, and congenital heart disease.
Screening for disease will also be examined and you'll learn how this applies both generally to cardiovascular disease and in specific circumstances, such as within sport.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex in our City Campus, which has benefited from a multimillion-pound investment over the last 5 years.
The Living Lab boasts the region’s only immersive simulation room allowing participants to experience events in simulated environments.
An adjacent task trainer room which can be used flexibly can aid with the development of clinical and non-technical skills.
Integral cameras enable participants to view live or recorded footage in our dedicated debrief room.
The Lab also has a seven-bed ward and Point of Care Testing (POCT) facility along with an OSCE suite and seminar rooms.
The facility currently has two SimMan 3Gs, a SimNewB, a SimMom birthing simulator, and two TraumaFX simbodies.
A range of other clinical equipment and part task trainers as well as a pop-up ambulance are available to complement the facilities.
IT facilities at the University are excellent with hundreds of workstations available as well as wireless internet access.
If you have any computer problems, just ask the friendly helpdesk team.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Fleming building.
On-campus teaching is based at City Campus.
The John Dawson Sciences Complex, Helen McArdle House, Edinburgh, and Gateway Buildings are primarily accessed for teaching.
We would require successful completion of an Access to Higher Education course that is accredited by the Quality Assurance Agency.
We would also require a minimum of grade C in GCSE in Mathematics and English Language or the equivalent as part of your course.
Interview Shortlisted applicants will participate in a selection interview, which will be conducted by a panel with members from the University of Sunderland, the cardiac physiology workforce, and the Patient Carer and Public Involvement participant (PCPI) group.
If you are successful at the interview stage, you'll be required to undergo an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check, along with an Occupational Health Check.
Shortlisted applicants will participate in a selection interview, which will be conducted by a panel with members from the University of Sunderland, the cardiac physiology workforce, and the Patient Carer and Public Involvement participant (PCPI) group.
Successful completion of this course will make you eligible to register as a qualified Cardiac Physiology Healthcare Science Practitioner with the Academy for Healthcare Science, enabling you to work within the NHS.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/strategic-leadership:
Develop your knowledge and skills as a strategic leader within your organisation.
Identify your own leadership identity, personal strategic leadership development objectives, and how to achieve those.
This Level 7 short course will develop you as a strategic leader.
Y ou'll reflect on your experiences and explore the challenges of strategic leadership, developing and enhancing your knowledge and understanding.
You'll be introduced to strategy concepts and practices and explore their impact on your organisation with a view to you contributing to your organisation’s success, sustainability, resilience, and growth .
The course is designed for established organisational leaders and for those aspiring to become one.
It aims to challenge thinking, encouraging you to be professional, innovative, and entrepreneurial leaders, with the ability to push businesses forward.
There will be a focus on ethical and sustainable practices.
The course is designed and delivered by highly qualified practitioners who have experience and expertise in the ir subject.
We have a highly successful track record of tailoring course content to your needs to transform your understanding of the subject, which translates into increased effectiveness and satisfaction in your professional practice.
This is a part-time, flexible, work-based course, delivered via a blended learning model.
There are monthly, one-day, face-to-face, on-campus study sessions, supported by assessment supervision and our Virtual Learning Environment.
It will normally be delivered at Hope Street Xchange, City Campus, but for closed and bespoke cohorts, the course can be delivered at your workplace.
The course has been developed in collaboration with employers.
The content and assessment methods are designed to develop a range of conceptual and analytical skills that will enhance workplace practice in your workplace.
The contact dates for this course are:
This course is work-based.
Admission is subject to the learner being employed by an organisation throughout the duration of the course.
You will be expected to have a relevant Level 6 qualification in a business, management, or leadership area.
The fee for this course is £1,125.
To be eligible for this funding, you must be employed by a Sunderland-based company, excluding the public sector.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/professional-people-practice:
This unique apprenticeship will teach you everything you need to know about managing people while gaining a triple award which incorporates a Level 7 Apprenticeship, MSc HRM, and CIPD Advanced Diploma in People Management.
The MSc Professional People Practice is a higher-level 7 apprenticeship is designed and developed for senior HR practitioners and senior people managers.
The course covers all areas of managing people and specialises in the study of best practice human resource management (HRM) approaches as advocated by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) Professions map and is CIPD accredited.
You will be taught through lectures, seminars, group work, work-based learning, online resources, and one-to-one feedback.
We have a diverse assessment strategy designed to ensure learners have the best possible practical skill set and the knowledge to perform at work.
Assessments include:
You'll go through an ‘End Point Assessment (EPA)’ following the successful completion of all course modules.
Throughout the apprenticeship you'll take part in regular meetings called tripartite reviews, providing an opportunity for your academic tutor and your work-based mentor to support you through your studies.
This module assesses your personal skill set using a variety of self-assessment diagnostics and then you are supported to produce a personal career skills development plan.
This module teaches the core elements of people management, being mindful of best practice techniques, bringing together theoretical knowledge with practical application.
This module familiarises students with the latest analytical tools that a people manager typically would utilise.
Students will get hands-on data experience and learn about using AI and how it can benefit management decision-making in practice.
This module looks at all aspects of employment relationships and relationships with organisational stakeholders.
It examines contentious areas and explores how to conduct effective dialogue and negotiation.
This module examines all aspects of change from organisational and personal readiness to change through to strategies to deal with resistance.
It also considers how organisations can transform over time.
This module provides learners with an opportunity to conduct in house research on an area of people management and create real impact.
End Point Assessment (EPA) – Employer research project (incorporating CIPD Management report).
You'll be taught via a mix of online learning and on-campus teaching in the Business School at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
This apprenticeship is work-based and, as such, is subject to learners being employed full-time in a people management position.
It is expected that participants have a first degree and/or relevant experience working in a human resource role.
Apprentices who begin their training at age 19 or older are no longer required to achieve English and Maths qualifications to complete their apprenticeship.
Employers now have the discretion to determine whether these qualifications are necessary for their apprentices' roles.
They may choose to include them as an entry requirement or integrate them into the training programme if considered relevant.
To search for apprenticeships offered by employers in your area, go to: gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship .
Larger organisations can use their apprenticeship levy and government top-up to pay tuition and professional fees of higher apprenticeships.
For smaller employers, the government pays 95%, with the remainder co-invested by the business.
For a discussion around your specific requirements please call 0191 515 3361 or email apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk .
This apprenticeship is an excellent qualification for senior managers or aspiring senior managers to master the art of people and human resource management.
Sign up to receive more information
For a discussion around your specific requirements please contact:
0191 515 3361 / apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk
If you’re looking to start an apprenticeship, it is the employer that will advertise this opportunity, not the University.
To search for apprenticeships offered by employers in your area go to: gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship .
Page last updated:  16 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/audiology-practice:
You'll study the underpinning knowledge required while developing clinical skills in the workplace in the assessment, management, and therapeutic rehabilitation of patients with hearing and associated disorders.
The taught component of this course is designed to be delivered predominantly online, with a one-week block attendance required at our City Campus each semester.
The course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare Science and follows the Practitioner Training Programme curriculum.
There is significant demand for audiologists and graduates from this degree apprenticeship are eligible to register with the Academy of Healthcare Science and practise in NHS departments.
The BSc (Hons) Healthcare Science Practitioner – Audiology degree apprenticeship integrates traditional lectures, interactive laboratory and simulation practicals, computing sessions and seminars and workshops, including verbal presentations and posters, group work, case-based learning, directed learning, research project supervision.
You'll be assessed using a combination of formative and summative assignments throughout the degree and the apprenticeship.
You'll be required to complete the PTP portfolio during your time in the workplace collecting evidence of your progressive development.
The EPA is a synoptic assessment that learners on apprenticeship programmes need to successfully complete and pass to complete the apprenticeship.
The EPA is integrated into a final stage module and is made up of three elements; Readiness to Practice Test, Professional Discussion, and a Research Project Presentation.
You'll need to successfully complete all aspects of assignment in this module including the EPA to complete the programme.
Develop an understanding of anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology within the neurosensory sciences, which underpins and supports the introduction of your clinical audiological assessment and rehabilitation skills in the workplace, in the form of a clinical portfolio.
Gain an introduction to the concepts and application of instrumentation used in the Neurosensory Sciences together with an appreciation of the physical and mathematical principles that underpin these concepts and measurements.
You'll be required to submit a clinical workplace portfolio as part of this module.
You'll learn to work within a patient-facing department, and develop an understanding of the patient journey and aspects of their care.
Reflective practice skills will be introduced as part of this module, and you'll develop the tools for personal development to promote employability while gaining knowledge and understanding in the field of healthcare science relevant to today's NHS.
E xplore the key biological processes that underpin life.
You'll study the relationship of cell organelles and their functions with the human genome, and how the genetic code is expressed resulting in changes in cell signalling, division, differentiation, and death.
You'll be introduced to the principles and methods of psychophysics, psychoacoustic, and sound perception.
Clinical assessment of auditory function, test strategy, interpretation of results, and the role of hearing aid provision will be further explored.
You'll also study the causes of balance disorders, and routine tests of balance assessment will be introduced.
Develop your understanding of the anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of the ear, hearing, and balance, in terms of normal structure and physiological function and of how pathological processes affect both.
This will provide the basis of understanding required in clinical practice and/or research.
Explore the psychological and sociological theories in health.
This module encompasses the development over the last decade of a psychosocial approach to the study of health and illness, with a specific focus on adult aural rehabilitation.
You'll develop your knowledge and skills in research methods and statistical analysis, including formulating and testing hypotheses.
Learners will calculate a range of statistical variables using dedicated software.
Leadership skills, critical reflection techniques, and ethical principles that support a patient-centered healthcare approach will be studied.
Further develop your understanding of the prevalence and incidence of hearing/balance disorders and tinnitus in relation to demographic characteristics.
Health education and screening principles to improve public health related to hearing/balance/tinnitus will be explored.
You'll build on your understanding of the basic principles of audiological assessment of hearing and balance.
Advanced hearing aid features and technologies will be discussed.
Paediatric hearing assessment, surveillance, and management will be introduced.
The anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of the vestibular system will be also examined.
The Professional Practice and Work-based Training in Audiology module builds on the Audiology professional competencies developed during year 2.
This module is assessed by a professional portfolio which is completed during work-based training in an Audiology Department.
You'll apply the knowledge and skills you have learned during the Audiology degree apprenticeship to develop and carry out a research project.
The project is carried out in collaboration with your work placement provider.
The module is aligned with the requirements of the National School of Healthcare Science (NSHCS) Practitioner Training Programme (PTP).
These are equipped with wide-ranging facilities from proteomics to drug discovery.
These include a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer and nanoHPLC MALDI spotter both 2D-gel based proteomics and bacterial identification, a new BD Accuri bench top flow cytometer for cell based assays, and an imaging suite including facilities for light, confocal and electron microscopy.
You will have access to the physiology laboratories equipped with specialist equipment and instrumentation to demonstrate a range of physiological mechanisms including cardiac, respiratory and autonomic mechanisms.
We have a number of laboratories dedicated for final year projects where you will gain first-hand research experience.
On-campus teaching is based on City Campus in The John Dawson Sciences Complex, Helen McArdle House, Edinburgh, and Priestman Buildings.
Admission is subject to the learner being employed by an organisation and remaining in employment with an organisation throughout the duration of the programme.
The employer must confirm participants comply with apprentice eligibility criteria.
There are different options for the employer to fund the costs of higher and degree apprenticeships, which may include government levies already paid for by the employer or specific funding opportunities which may be available.
To search for apprenticeships offered by employers in your area go to: gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship
Larger organisations can use their apprenticeship levy and government top-up to pay tuition and professional fees of higher apprenticeships.
For smaller employers, the government pays 95%, with the remainder co-invested by the business.
For a discussion around your specific requirements please call 0191 515 3361 or email apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk
Successful completion of this degree apprenticeship will enable learners to be eligible for professional registration and suitability for employment as a Healthcare Science Practitioner in Audiology.
Since this programme is approved by  a statutory regulator, the EPA for this programme has been integrated with the assessment requirements as outlined by the IBMS and HCPC, which include completion and passing of the academic programme and completion and passing the verification of the IBMS training registration portfolio.
This course is accredited by the National School for Healthcare Science, and successful graduates are eligible to register with the Academy of Healthcare Science as a Healthcare Science Practitioner.
The apprentice will be full time all requirements of the ESFA in the apprenticeship standards for entry and off the job learning (OJL) time will be met.
Contact CaPE for further information about applying for this course: 0191 515 3361 / cape@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/cardiac-physiology-practice:
Delivered using a hybrid approach that relies predominantly on a distance learning approach the course will initially teach the fundamentals of professional practice, physiology and cardiovascular and respiratory science.
The course will then develop these skills further teaching the pathophysiology of disease to the cardiac and respiratory system, alongside current methods of testing for the presence of disease.
By the end of the course you will be adept at performing and reporting a range of clinical tests including, 12 lead ECG, Ambulatory ECG recordings, Non-Invasive Blood Pressure, Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitors, Exercise Tolerance Testing.
Graduates will also be able to perform as a Healthcare Science Practitioner within invasive environments where Cardiac Catheterisation and Pacemaker Implantation procedures take place.
Graduates will have an awareness of the practical application of specialist non-invasive techniques including Echocardiography.
The course will be divided into modules that once successfully completed will provide students with academic credits that will build over the course of their studies until they have enough to be awarded their degree.
Students will study four modules per academic year and these will be divided into two modules in Semester 1 and two modues in Semester 2.
Each module will be taught over one day per week during the academic term, meaning that students will be expected to participate in formal sessions on two days per week.
Academic classes will take the form of virtual lectures and seminars  where students will participate in a collective class session at the start of the day, complete additional exercises and activities during the late morning and early afternoon, and reconvene as a class at the end of the day to discuss the activities completed.
Students will be asked to attend campus for one week per semester and during this time students will participate in laboratory teaching, clinical simulation exercises and problem-based learning activities.
Work-based learning will be delivered within NHS Departments where students.
Students will perform a range of procedures within this live hospital environment that will build their experience working as a Healthcare Science Practitioner.
The Cardiac Physiology Practice programme follows a curriculum set out by the National School of Healthcare Science, therefore all modules offered are required learning.
Students studying this programme do not have any optional modules.
You will learn to work within a patient facing department, develop an understanding of the patient journey and aspects of their care.
Reflective practice skills will be introduced as part of this module,  and you will develop the tools for personal development to promote employability, while gaining knowledge and understanding in the field of healthcare science relevant for today's NHS.
The module will provide students with an underpinning knowledge of the anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system.
The students will develop essential skills that will allow them to safely and accurately perform routine investigations such as 12 Lead Electrocardiography and Blood Pressure Measurement adopting a patient centered approach.
You will learn how molecular composition controls the biological function of organic molecules.
You will study the relationship of cell organelles and their functions with the human genome, and how the genetic code is expressed resulting in changes in cell signalling, division, differentiation and death.
The module will provide students with an underpinning knowledge of the anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology of the respiratory and sleep systems.
The students will develop essential skills that will allow them to safely and accurately perform routine investigations such as spirometry and pulse oximetry adopting a patient centered approach.
Cardiac and Resiratory Disease (30 credits)
The module will continue to develop the student’s understanding of the human body by focusing on the effects that disease can have on the physiological processes.
The module will compare acquired and congenital disease and discuss a broad range of pathophysiological processes linked to specific diseases that affect the cardiac, vascular, respiratory and sleep systems.
There will be a broad range of specific conditions covered in this module that will include amongst others, Coronary Artery Disease, Hypertension, Asthma and Obstructive Sleep Apnoea.
Within each discussion there will be an explanation of diagnostic testing, prognostic assessment and management.
The module will develop a student’s understanding of 12 Lead Electrocardiogram (ECG) interpretation.
ECG Interpretation is a vital aspect of healthcare and students studying this module will participate in exercises to develop their analysis and interpretive skills.
The module will begin by reviewing the essential characteristics of ECG Interpretation including waveform recognition, normal intervals, measurement of rate and rhythm recognition.
The module will then discuss recognition of abnormal ECG rhythms including supraventricular arrhythmias, ventricular arrhythmias, junctional arrhythmias, bradyarrhythmias, conduction abnormalities.
The module will also explain how an ECG can be affected by specific disease processes as well as abnormal metabolic, endocrine and electrolyte states.
The module will develop the learners knowledge and skills of research methods and statistical analysis.
Learners will develop skills in formulating hypothesis and learning to test that hypothesis through experimental design and statistical methods.
Learners will also develop an appreciation of the framework governing research including research ethics.
The module will continue to develop leadership skills amongst learners, promoting critical reflection techniques and expanding the learners knowledge of the legal and ethical principles that support a patient centered healthcare approach.
The principles and practices of clinical audit will be discussed and this will be used as foundation that will be built upon in later modules.
The module will develop a student’s understanding of a range of diagnostic testing techniques including non-invasive blood pressure measurement, ambulatory Holter monitoring, exercise treadmill testing and cardiopulmonary exercise testing.
The module will discuss the theoretical approach to measurement technique focusing on how operators can perform high quality measurements, comparing alternative techniques and discussing indications/contraindications.
There will also be a practical approach to develop students skills in performing these tests.
Students will apply the knowledge and skills they have learned during the Cardiac Physiology degree programme to develop and carry out a research project.
The project is carried out in collaboration with a work placement provider.
The module will widen the student’s knowledge and skills in relation to cardiac catheterisation and cardiac pacing.
Cardiac catheterisation will be covered, encapsulating the range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures that can be performed within this setting.
There will be a focus on safe working within a multidisciplinary cardiac catheter laboratory team and the development of technical skills to build experience with techniques used within the laboratory.
Cardiac pacing will be discussed covering the underlying physics of bradycardic pacing, indications and contraindications, implantation technique and troubleshooting of device and lead malfunction.
The module aims to develop the learners understanding of leadership in healthcare by focusing on improvement and innovation within the healthcare setting.
Learners will begin by discussing methods of identifying risks to patient safety and to find ways to mitigate these risks.
The underpinning theory of change management will be discussed alongside the practical approaches and barriers to implementing change and innovation.
There will also be a focus on the learners themselves and about different leadership styles that can exist within healthcare.
Learners will be asked to reflect on their own practice and link this to the models of leadership that will have been discussed.
This module will further develop the student’s understanding of non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic testing and apply that knowledge to care pathways.
Imaging techniques including CT, MRI and Echocardiography will be discussed in relation to disease with a particular focus on echocardiography techniques.
There will be an explanation of the physiology, pathophysiology and pharmacology of conditions including channelopathies, heart failure and congenital heart disease.
Screening for disease will also be discussed and how this applies both generally to cardiovascular disease as well as in specific circumstances such as within sport.
The Living Lab at the University of Sunderland was opened by Professor Lisa Bayliss-Pratt, Chief Nurse of Health Education England in 2016, following significant investment and major redevelopment of the ground floor of Fleming Building in The John Dawson Sciences Complex.
We aim to provide a state-of-the-art venue for all forms of healthcare related simulation based education.
An adjacent task trainer room can be used flexibly and can aid with the development of clinical and non-technical skills.
The Lab also has a 7-bed ward and Point of Care Testing (POCT) facility along with an OSCE suite and seminar rooms.
The facility currently has 2 SimMan 3Gs, a SimNewB, a SimMom birthing simulator and 2 TraumaFX simbodies.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex at our City Campus, which boasts excellent facilities and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
Our Clinical Skills Suite is equipped with a range of clinical equipment for training health professionals.
The cutting-edge equipment is backed up with excellent IT facilities and helpful IT support staff.
Completion of the degree apprenticeship will enable learners to be eligible for professional registration and suitability for employment as a Biomedical Scientist (BMS).
Learners will complete the IBMS registration portfolio as part of the EPA to enable eligibility to apply to be on the HCPC register.
This course is accredited by the following bodies:
Contact CaPE for further information about applying for this course: 0191 515 3361 / cape@sunderland.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/data-scientist:
Develop the technical and analytical skills required for a career in data science.
Combine academic study with practical, work-based learning.
Gain valuable real-world experience while earning a degree.
It combines academic study with practical, work-based learning, enabling apprentices to gain valuable real-world experience while earning a degree.
This apprenticeship is ideal for those working in a digital analyst role in an organisation and looking to progress their skills and knowledge.
It's also a great opportunity for businesses to upskill existing and new technical experts, as they will learn diverse skills.
You'll focus on core areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Programming, and Statistical Modelling.
You'll build expertise in the latest data science tools and techniques while contributing directly to your workplace.
It offers a blend of online learning and work-based projects, with dedicated academic tutors providing guidance throughout.
On successful completion of the apprenticeship, you'll be well-prepared to continue with your employer or advance into other roles across the data science field.
Teaching on this apprenticeship takes place one day a week (Fridays) at the University with the remaining of your learning taking place at your place of work.
The course is delivered using a blended learning approach by experienced tutors using a variety of teaching styles including lectures, seminars, coaching, tutorial groups, project work, group work, and independent study.
The modules are mapped against the Data Scientist apprenticeship knowledge, skills, and behaviours framework with assessment methods including:
This assessment method has three components:
This module is an introduction to networking and networking operating systems where apprentices will identify key components of a network system and their operating system.
Apprentices will gather basic understanding of networking protocols and be able to set up and troubleshoot hardware and software problems.
Developing high-quality software requires more than just coding skills.
This practical module explores a wide range of software engineering techniques and industry practices, designed to promote the production of high-quality, efficient, reliable, and secure software.
Apprentices are introduced to algorithms with focus on Sorting (e.g., bubble, quick, heap), Searching (e.g., breadth first and depth first) and Merging (e.g., Simple and K-way).
Apprentices will be able to identify organisational information requirements and be able to model data solutions using conceptual data modelling techniques.
Apprentices will develop skills in designing and implementing a database solution using industry-standard database management systems.
Apprentices will also be able to perform database administration tasks, be able to manage data effectively and will learn about the key concepts of data quality and data security.
They will also understand how organisations can use data analytics to support them in making decisions by using data dashboards as an example.
This module introduces the fundamental mathematical and statistical concepts essential for data science.
Apprentices will gain a solid foundation in linear algebra, calculus, probability, and statistical methods, which are crucial for understanding and applying data science techniques.
The module is delivered in a practical environment with exposure to a range of real practical applications where mathematical and statistical techniques are used and deployed in Data Science areas.
Specific software such as (but not limited to) MATLAB, SimuLink, Python and R Studio will be used to test and evaluate models and techniques.
Apprentices will develop knowledge and an understanding of agile and DevOps within modern software development which will build on previous software development skills attained.
Apprentices will design, develop, and test a software product which they will then deploy.
This module enables apprentices to work together on a project to develop an application for a charity or company.
Apprentices will work together on the project from start to finish, working through the development life cycle.
The project will be assessed as a group and individually with marks recorded for the group assessment being peer reviewed.
This advanced module delves into the intricacies of big data analytics and advanced visualisation techniques, preparing apprentices to tackle complex data challenges in real-world scenarios.
Apprentices will explore cutting-edge technologies and methodologies for handling large-scale datasets, alongside mastering advanced visualisation tools to extract meaningful insights and communicate data-driven narratives effectively.
This module provides a comprehensive introduction to the essential techniques and tools for virtualisation and the infrastructure that supports data scientists.
This module teaches the apprentices how to effectively virtualise computing resources and understand the technological frameworks that enable efficient management.
This final year module is an introduction to Artificial Intelligence and looks at a range of AI techniques and how they can be used to solve problems with society, industry and research.
The development of AI and programming languages over the years have supported industry with decision making.
In this module, apprentices will design, develop and implement a work-based project on a topic agreed with their employer and University tutor.
The project should be based on a Data Science solution that forms part of the apprentice’s role.
The work-based project will inform the report to be completed during the EPA module DTS307.
On completion, the apprentice must provide a signed statement to confirm it is his/her own work.
This module also encourages students to develop a set of professional skills, such as problem-solving; creativity; critical thinking; hypothesis generation and testing; action planning and decision making; self-reflection; organisation and time management; initiative and self-motivation; end-user awareness; presentation skills; and technical report writing for technical and non-technical audiences.
During this module, apprentices will collate their portfolio of evidence which will support them with their professional discussion within their End Point Assessment.
This module enables apprentices to undertake the End Point Assessment (EPA), the final stage of the BSc (Hons) Data Science (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship).
This module follows the national requirements and guidance set out in the EPA Plan.
The EPA has three assessment methods: a knowledge test, followed by a report (based on a work-based project) and a Professional discussion (informed by a portfolio).
This course is based at the David Goldman Technology Centre, a high-tech computing environment with strong links to business.
The apprenticeship is work-based and is subject to the apprentice being employed by an organisation for the duration.
The employer must confirm that apprentices comply with the apprentice eligibility criteria, including funding requirements.
Entrants to the degree apprenticeship will usually have gained the equivalent of 112 UCAS tariff points in relevant subject areas or relevant work experience.
Applicants aged 16-18 at the start of their programme must hold GCSEs in Maths and English at a minimum of Grade C or numerical grade 4 to 9 (or equivalent), or be willing to work towards achieving this before the programme end date.
This will be reviewed and discussed as part of the initial assessment process.
Our degree apprenticeships can be the start of your exciting new career.
They will enable you to gain a degree, while also gaining invaluable 'on the job' experience.
Studying an apprenticeship means:
0191 515 3361 / apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk .
If you’re looking to start an apprenticeship, the employer will advertise this opportunity, not the University.
View programme specifications .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/digital-technology-solutions:
Progress your knowledge and skills in your digital role.
Specialise in one of six pathways: Software Engineering, IT Consultant, Business Analyst, Cybersecurity, Data Analyst, Network Engineer.
Our Digital Technology Solutions Professional degree apprenticeship standard has been developed in partnership with regional employers to support the enhancement of digital knowledge, skills, and behaviours.
This apprenticeship is ideal for those working in a digital role within an organisation and looking to progress their skills and knowledge.
It's also a great opportunity for businesses to upskill existing and new technical experts, as apprentices will learn a diverse set of skills across areas such as software engineering, IT consultancy, business analytics, cybersecurity, data analytics, and network engineering.
In addition to the broad set of skills and knowledge gained in this course, apprentices will choose to specialise in one of the six pathways:
This apprenticeship offers a blend of work-based learning, providing education in the theory and practice of digital technology with an emphasis on developing the knowledge and abilities to contribute to the practical and problem-solving areas of the computing industry.
Teaching takes place one day a week (Fridays) at the University with the remaining learning taking place at your place of work.
Modules are mapped against the Digital Technology Solutions Professional apprenticeship knowledge, skills, and behaviours framework.
Assessment methods include:
This module is an introduction to networking and networking operating systems where you'll identify key components of a network system and their operating system.
You'll gather basic understanding of networking protocols and be able to set up and troubleshoot hardware and software problems.
You'll be introduced to algorithms with a focus on Sorting (e.g., bubble, quick, heap), Searching (e.g., breadth-first and depth-first) and Merging (e.g., Simple and K-way).
Identify organisational information requirements and model data solutions using conceptual data modelling techniques.
Develop skills in designing and implementing a database solution using industry-standard database management systems.
Perform database administration tasks, manage data effectively, and learn about the key concepts of data quality and data security.
Understand how organisations can use data analytics to support them in making decisions using data dashboards for example.
Gain an introduction to web technologies exploring both front-end and back-end web development.
Understand the technologies used to develop a dynamic web application and set up a web server.
Understand how to install, configure, and deploy a turn-key full-stack development solution.
Develop knowledge and an understanding of agile and DevOps within modern software development which will build on the software development skills you've previously attained.
Design, develop, and test a software product you'll then deploy.
Build on the foundational concepts of systems security introduced within Networks and Network Operating systems.
Understand the technical, legal, and business issues involved in developing and implementing secure systems.
Explore the concept of risk, threats, vulnerabilities, and attack vectors, taking into account authentication and authorisation and access control in an environment of Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA).
Work with other apprentices on a project to develop an application for a charity or company through the development life cycle.
The project will be assessed as a group and individually, with marks recorded for the group assessment being peer-reviewed.
Investigate case studies of cybersecurity incidents relating to businesses, where social factors such as social engineering, oversharing, and phishing attacks have played a major part.
Design and create a secure system and understand how factors can influence security risks and how these have progressed with time.
Gain an introduction to AI and AI techniques and how they can be used to solve problems in society, industry, and research.
The development of AI and programming languages over the years has supported industry with decision-making.
IT Service Management (ITSM) is concerned with delivering maximum value to a business in its use of IT and IT processes.
The types of service that may be provided are infrastructure, applications, and business processes and all can be managed in-company or outsourced.
Examples of IT Services are: Data Storage, Cloud Computing, Database Management, Secure Network Set Up, and General Software Support.
IT Service Management involves supporting businesses of all sizes to ensure their IT Services run smoothly and to have minimum downtime while overseeing security, backing up data, fixing bugs, etc.
Develop a mini project that showcases some of the knowledge, skills, and behaviours you have acquired through the apprenticeship, alongside an e-portfolio of your evidence.
Undertake the End Point Assessment (EPA), the final stage of the course.
Having successfully completed all other modules on the course and gained 360 academic credits, prior to this module you'll have your eligibility to go through the EPA Gateway confirmed by your employer, with the advice of the University.
Submit your non-assessed portfolio at the Gateway point.
You'll then enter the EPA phase, which must be completed within three months of the Gateway.
The EPA has two assessment methods: a project report with presentation, questions and answers, and a professional discussion underpinned by a portfolio.
The programme is work-based and is subject to the apprentice being employed by an organisation throughout the programme.
Page last updated:  01 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/biomedical-science-practice:
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science Practice delivers the learning outcomes and content specified by the Level 6 apprenticeship standard and the QAA benchmark for Biomedical Science.
The apprenticeship is delivered predominantly online, with learners only attending campus at the end of each semester for up to a week of laboratory workshops and examinations.
Delivery is over a maximum of three years, with each stage taking one year to complete.
Applicants who have completed the Level 4 Healthcare Science Associate Diploma at the University can start at stage 2.
Assessment of any previous learning is actively encouraged.
The cohort is open to applicants employed in an IBMS-approved training pathology laboratory in England.
We offer a single apprenticeship in Biomedical Science Practice, encompassing all major biomedical disciplines (microbiology, immunology, virology, biochemistry, haematology, transfusion, cellular pathology, and genetics).
Expertise is drawn from academic staff who are research-active and experienced NHS biomedical scientists, which ensures the professional currency of the apprenticeship and links the taught knowledge, technical experience, and clinical focus with current practice.
The apprenticeship degree integrates traditional lectures, interactive laboratory and simulation practical's, computing sessions and seminars and workshops, including verbal presentations and posters, group work, case-based learning, directed learning, research project supervision.
The apprentice will be assessed using a combination of formative and summative assignments throughout the degree and the apprenticeship.
The learner is required to complete the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) registration portfolio to enable them to be eligible to apply for Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) registration to practice as a Biomedical Scientist, whilst also preparing learners for undertaking mandatory continuous professional development (CPD) by collating a professional (CPD) portfolio through all stages of learning.
The EPA starts with the examination board and finishes when the Approved Education Provider submits the required documentation to HCPC.
The apprentice is not required to carry out any additional assessments.
Once passed, the learner can separately apply for HCPC registration.
How do you develop the skills needed for a career in healthcare?
In this module, you’ll gain clinical experience by working with patients and understanding their care journeys.
You’ll also explore professional skills, such as following legal and health and safety rules in the workplace.
Academic skills like scientific and reflective writing will also be developed.
This module prepares you for the NHS and equips you with transferable skills for success in both academic and professional settings.
In this module, you’ll explore the chemistry behind biological processes, like chemical reactions, energy changes, and how enzymes speed up reactions.
You’ll learn about acids, bases, and pH in living systems, as well as the structure and function of molecules like DNA, proteins, fats, and sugars.
You’ll also study how mitochondria produce energy, and how proteins are made, cells communicate, and genes are transcribed.
Practical work will include lab skills like titration, spectrophotometry, flow cytometry, and chromatography to help reinforce what you’ve learned.
How do cells form the human body’s organs and systems?
In this module, you’ll learn how cells are specialised to create the organs and systems in the human body.
You’ll study how cell structures (organelles) work and key processes like cell division and cell death.
You’ll also explore the major organ systems and gain practical experience with techniques like lung function tests.
How do microbes impact human health and disease?
In this module, you’ll explore how viruses, bacteria, and fungi affect human health.
You’ll study how microorganisms grow, adapt, and cause disease, and how the body fights back with immune responses.
You’ll also learn about antibiotics, how they’re developed, and how the body’s natural defences protect against infections.
Practical lab skills will be taught, including aseptic techniques, to ensure safe handling of microorganisms.
How do microbes cause infections and how can we treat them?
In this module, you’ll explore how microbes play a role in infections and learn the strategies used to treat them.
You’ll study how biomedical and bioinformatic techniques support these treatments.
You’ll also learn about the structure of organ systems and how examining tissue samples under a microscope helps us diagnose and treat diseases.
How do blood and immune system studies help diagnose and treat diseases?
In this module, you’ll explore different scientific areas within an NHS blood sciences department.
In clinical biochemistry, you’ll learn how blood and other fluids are analysed to diagnose diseases.
You’ll study blood production, transfusion, and the use of blood components in treatment.
You’ll also deepen your understanding of immunology, focusing on how the immune system defends against infections and how this knowledge can help improve treatments like vaccines and immunotherapy.
In this module, you’ll learn about the molecular techniques used in modern diagnostics and research.
You’ll study clinical genetics and explore how bioinformatics helps apply genetic data to patient care.
You’ll also learn how to design and analyse both qualitative and quantitative research using statistics.
Finally, you’ll explore how drug metabolism, monitoring, and toxicology affect patient outcomes and guide treatment decisions.
How do you explore and evaluate current research in biomedical science?
In this module, you’ll take a deep dive into a current topic in biomedical or clinical research.
You’ll build academic skills by writing a detailed literature review and learn how to critically assess published research and research methods.
You’ll also explore how scientific papers are reviewed and gain a strong understanding of the techniques and approaches used in your chosen research area.
In this module, you’ll build on the professional skills and lab experience you’ve gained in the workplace.
You’ll develop the technical knowledge and values needed for good scientific practice as a Biomedical Scientist.
You’ll also learn about the importance of quality assurance, teamwork, communication, and working with other professionals to provide patient-centred care.
This module is aligned with the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) and Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) requirements for becoming a registered Biomedical Scientist.
How can you turn your knowledge into real research?
In this module, you’ll design and carry out your own research project, using the skills and knowledge you’ve developed throughout your degree.
This is your chance to work independently, explore your own ideas, and grow as a scientist.
Your project could focus on scientific or clinical research, healthcare policy, education, innovation, or service development within the biosciences.
In this module, you’ll build on your experience working in an NHS laboratory, strengthening the knowledge, technical skills, and professional behaviours needed for good scientific practice.
You’ll develop a deeper understanding of quality assurance, teamwork, communication, and working across disciplines to support safe, patient-centred care.
This module is aligned with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) requirements for registration as a Biomedical Scientist.
How does studying tissue help us diagnose disease?
In this module, you’ll examine real tissue samples and learn how changes at the cellular level relate to disease.
Through case studies and interactive learning, you’ll explore different conditions from both patient and clinical perspectives.
You’ll also gain an understanding of how diseases appear at both the clinical and cellular level, helping connect lab findings to real-life diagnosis.
How do we diagnose and understand disorders in body chemistry?
In this module, you’ll explore disorders linked to acid-base balance, electrolytes, hormones, and metabolism.
You’ll learn how lab tests are used in areas like paediatric biochemistry, neonatal screening, and cancer detection.
Through case studies and hands-on practice, you’ll examine how biochemical tests are carried out in the lab and learn to interpret clinical and laboratory data to help diagnose biochemical diseases.
In this module, you’ll explore the human genome and how gene activity is controlled.
You’ll learn about genetic causes of disease and how this knowledge is leading to new treatments like gene therapy and genome editing.
You’ll also study key advances in clinical genetics, such as whole-genome sequencing, and how they support personalised medicine.
The module also looks at how genetic testing can predict drug responses, helping to create more accurate and effective treatments.
How do microbes cause disease?
How do we detect and control them?
In this module, you’ll study how bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa cause infection at the molecular level.
You’ll explore how antibiotics work and why some bacteria become resistant.
You’ll investigate infections using both traditional and advanced diagnostic tools, including bioinformatics.
You’ll also learn how public health teams track and manage outbreaks within the NHS.
Practical sessions will teach you how to safely handle harmful microorganisms in the lab.
How does the immune system know when to fight and when not to?
In this module, you’ll explore how the immune system decides between attacking threats and staying tolerant to avoid harming the body.
You’ll examine how the immune system interacts with cancer and how infections can trigger allergies or autoimmune diseases.
You’ll assess ways to control immune responses to improve health, and you'll carry out lab tests and data analysis to help diagnose immune system disorders.
How do blood disorders develop and how are they diagnosed and treated?
In this module, you’ll study diseases linked to problems in the bone marrow or blood cells, such as anaemia, cancers, and bleeding disorders.
You’ll learn how blood products are safely prepared and used in treatment.
Through practical sessions and case-based learning, you’ll explore the lab techniques used in haematology and transfusion science.
You’ll also interpret clinical and lab data to help diagnose blood-related diseases using both routine and specialist methods.
Contact the Corporate and Professional Education team for further information about applying for this course: 0191 515 3361 / cape@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  08 August 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/podiatry-apprenticeship:
This apprenticeship offers a great opportunity for those assisting Podiatrists as foot care technicians or assistants, who would like to become a Podiatrist.
It is also a perfect route for those exploring a new career in Podiatry, through a recruited apprenticeship route offered by a Healthcare Provider (subject to entry criteria).
You will be employed in either the National Health Service or in Private Practice and will need to have the agreement of your employer in order to apply .
You will study one day per week at the University of Sunderland (Sunderland Campus) and will have a mixture of lectures, seminars and workshops.
Specialist teaching spaces, such as the Anatomy centre and simulation facilities will be utilised.
You will undertake group work and have the opportunity for 1:1 tutorials.
You will be assessed on practice placement, in the workplace and academically through undertaking examinations, OSCE, poster presentations, case studies, portfolios, projects and MCQ exams.
You will also be required to pass the End Point Assessment required by The Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education.
This module is an introduction to clinical practice that includes basic principles of health and safety, patient centred care, clinical reasoning and treatment planning, psychosocial care and clinical communication.
You will develop practical skills needed for the safe management of a defined range of podiatric conditions.
This module includes Practice Placement 1
You will gain a broad understanding of the legal frameworks in which podiatry is practiced and of your professional accountability.
There will be an introduction to evidence-based practice and how this underpins safe and effective care.
You will gain a detailed understanding of the anatomy and physiology relevant to managing lower limb pathology and associated patient assessment.
The module content will provide an overview of the basic medical sciences relevant to podiatry including dermatology, pharmacology, microbiology.
You will gain an understanding of the principles and detailed anatomical structures that enable bipedal gait across the lifespan.
You will develop the practical skills needed to undertake basic gait analysis.
You will develop your skills of assessment, diagnosis and management of a defined range of patients.
You will learn about the role of podiatry within health care systems and across multidisciplinary teams.
This module includes Practice Placement 2
You will gain a detailed appreciation of research methods and research ethics to enable you to develop a research proposal.
You will learn about how to deliver evidence-based care gaining skills in reflective practice and how to use systematic evidence to deliver safe and effective outcomes.
You will learn about the systemic conditions that impact on foot health.
You will learn how to safely provide local analgesia in the foot.
You will learn about musculoskeletal conditions affecting the foot and lower limb and their conservative and surgical management.
You will learn how to conduct biomechanical assessment and provide orthotic management.
You will develop your understanding and ability to use effective information governance.
You will demonstrate your ability to provide safe and effective patient centred care in a wide range of contexts and understand your role in public health education and clinical education.
You will understand the role of podiatry within the national and local health economy.
You will understand your role as a clinical leader and educator within healthcare practice.
You will understand how to keep yourself well and maintain your fitness to practice.
This module includes Practice Placement 3.
You will develop your research and entrepreneurial skills to undertake a project or literature review applied to contemporary podiatric practice.
As part of the wider healthcare team you will learn how to manage patients with a range of high risk or debilitating foot pathologies including diabetes, arthropathies and malignancies within your scope of practice.
You will have a detailed understanding of the pathophysiology of a range of foot and lower limb pathologies.
You will understand fundamental pharmacological principles and demonstrate analysis and understanding of a broad range of drug groups including those approved for podiatric use.
You will understand the legal frameworks that underpin prescribing in podiatry.
You will spend 20% of your time ‘off the job’ studying at the University of Sunderland on the City Campus.
The remaining time you will learn in your workplace, alongside and from your colleagues.
Teaching takes place in multimedia classrooms with state of the art resources for learning including lecture theatres, seminar rooms, laboratory, clinical suites, problem-based learning suite, anatomy centre and computer labs.
Specialist teaching labs are used in Darwin building, including a mock house and physiology labs.
In addition, there are specialised facilities based in Fleming, Pasteur, Dale, Darwin and Helen McArdle House, comprising laboratories for science-based teaching (chemistry, pharmaceutics) as well as professional practice rooms to support on-site problem-based learning, inter-professional learning and team-based learning opportunities for students.
All buildings have open-for-all access to academic and social environments.
Recent and on-going investment in the John Dawson Science Complex has focussed on creating an infrastructure to support and enhance our capability to deliver growth in integrated, interdisciplinary, patient-centred teaching aligned to the future structure of regional, national and international healthcare systems.
Clinical facilities currently include a simulated pharmacy, mock wards, patient transfer suites, patient isolation suite, point-of-care suite, problem-based learning suite, purpose built OSCEs suites and the new anatomy centre.
You will benefit from the John Dawson Research Institute and the Helen McArdle Research Institute, both of which are instrumental in pharmacological, health and social care research.
The programme is work based and, as such, is subject to the apprentice being employed by an organisation throughout the duration of the programme.
The employer must confirm apprentices comply with the apprentice eligibility criteria including funding requirements.
Applicants must have: You will need to have the full backing of your employer to undertake this apprenticeship, before you apply.
Applications are made via the University admissions process, and your application will be reviewed by the Admissions tutor and you may be invited to attend for a values based recruitment interview.
You may be invited to attend a values based recruitment interview.
At the interview you will meet academic staff and members of the Patient, Carer & Public Involvement team, who will ask you questions to ascertain your suitability to be offered a place.
You will need to have the full backing of your employer to undertake this apprenticeship, before you apply.
As this is an Apprenticeship programme, your employer will be able to discuss employment options with you.
Possible industries you can go into with this degree include the National Health Service, private practice, Higher Education, research, the third sector, charities and more.
You will also undertake practice placements during the programme, to enable you to learn in different environments with a range of service users.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/occupational-therapy-apprenticeship:
Learn about the philosophy, theory and research that supports Occupational Therapists as independent practitioners.
Occupational Therapists work with people of all ages to enable participation in the occupations that they want and need to do.
Underpinned by the professional belief that occupation and wellbeing are linked, Occupational Therapists use occupation as both a goal and a main tool for intervention.
During the lifespan, occupational participation may be disrupted by ability, a condition, an illness, an injury or a state of mind that can cause a mismatch between the person’s ability, the demands of the occupation and/or the environment.
Occupational Therapists enable participation through modifying occupations, promoting new skills or approaches, adapting environments or a combination of these.
This programme is a Higher Degree Apprenticeship and, as such, you will spend 80% of your time learning in your place of employment.
The remaining time will be either in the University or on practice placement.
You will have the opportunity to learn from people who are experts by their own lived experience, who have used health and social care services and who are fully integrated into the learning, teaching and assessment throughout the course.
You will be taught on campus by a highly skilled and motivated team of lecturers and visiting practitioners from across the world.
Teaching methods include lectures (online, live and recorded), seminars, workshops and practical sessions, where problem-based learning activities are used.
You will have the opportunity to work with Apprentices from a range of courses across the whole university.
You will be assessed through written assignments, presentations, practical demonstrations and via practice placements.
You will need to successfully complete all modules to progress through the course and achieve at least 1000 hours of successful practice placement.
During your practice placement you will benefit from the supervision from a practice placement educator as well as support from academic staff.
You may be required to work an altered shift pattern and may be required to work weekends.
Placements can take place anywhere in the North East region and some placements (especially any re-sits) take place outside of the normal university calendar.
Occupational Therapists undertake some of their interventions in people’s homes.
Our Mock House is the perfect space for you to simulate how Occupational Therapy is delivered in this setting.
The house contains all of the rooms and amenities you would find in your own house, with a bedroom, bathroom, living space, kitchen and dining area, and allows you to simulate making adaptions to the home itself.
You can practice using the equipment Occupational Therapists provide to facilitate independence too.
The space is also used to learn about some of the psychosocial interventions Occupational Therapists provide, for example anxiety management and relaxation, play therapy and group work.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Mock House.
The Occupational Therapy room is a multi-purpose space used to observe and engage in activities Occupational Therapists might adapt and use as an intervention.
As well as being a creative space, with facilities to create artwork, pottery, horticulture and many other crafts you will also use this space when you are making thermoplastic splints.
The room can be adapted to facilitate different styles of learning and a flexible approach to teaching.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Darwin Building, 118 (Occupational Therapy).
This course is delivered at City Campus.
A dedicated suite of facilities is available, including a simulation flat, creative activities room, telecare facilities, and a therapeutic garden.
In addition, sessions are also taught in simulation wards, immersive simulation suites, diagnostic suite, and sports facilities.
Staff also facilitate teaching sessions in community settings, such as at the leisure centre, on the beach, or in NHS or Local Authority facilities.
Some sessions will be delivered online, to reduce the carbon footprint of apprentices and staff.
You will also have access to a wide range of university facilities.
You will also complete your practice placements in a range of organisations, for example within the NHS, Local Authority, voluntary organisations, private practice, and businesses.
You will learn to use a wide range of rehabilitation equipment and assessment tools, thermoplastic splinting materials, and a variety of craft equipment.
You should discuss your plan to undertake this apprenticeship with your line manager to ensure that you meet your employer’s requirements prior to applying.
The Admissions tutor is also available to discuss the academic requirements with you.
BTEC Extended National Diploma (Sport and Exercise Science, Health Science and Applied Science preferred) DDM.
Other BTEC National Diplomas may be considered with AS or A2 Biology / Human Biology / PE at grade B.
Recognition of prior learning can be discussed with the Occupational Therapy Admissions Tutor in collaboration with your employer.
You will be working and studying simultaneously and will have the support of a work-based mentor and an academic personal tutor.
Values-based interview Your employer will have undertaken a values-based interview with you when you joined the organisation or when you approached them to consider putting you forward to become an apprentice.
An interview for your university place will be undertaken in April.
Fitness to practise Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all occupational therapy courses and are based on current HCPC requirements.
Occupational Therapists are registered health care professionals and the ability to practise safely, effectively and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
Your employer will undertake a DBS check and occupational health assessment.
Please refer to the HEOPS occupational therapy student fitness standards .
Personal qualities We select apprentices based on their knowledge, motivation, experience, values and behaviours, not just academic ability.
You need to demonstrate an ability to: Study academic subjects at the course level Debate topics and issues Draw on conclusions from written material Study independently and as part of a group Use computers and technology associated with teaching, learning and assessment Interact with people in an appropriate manner demonstrating the values of the health and care professions Demonstrate an understanding of, and commitment to, the course Please note that completing an approved programme does not guarantee you will become registered as an Occupational Therapist with the Health and Care Professions Council.
It shows the applicant meets the minimum professional standards and is eligible to apply for registration.
The Health and Care Professions Council will request additional information from you so that they can verify your eligibility.
Further details may be found on the Health and Care Professions Council website .
Applicants and enrolled students must be able to demonstrate that they meet the professional standards for practice, as well as the ethical and professional conduct expectations of our profession, throughout their time in training.
Your employer will have undertaken a values-based interview with you when you joined the organisation or when you approached them to consider putting you forward to become an apprentice.
Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all occupational therapy courses and are based on current HCPC requirements.
We select apprentices based on their knowledge, motivation, experience, values and behaviours, not just academic ability.
Please note that completing an approved programme does not guarantee you will become registered as an Occupational Therapist with the Health and Care Professions Council.
Occupational Therapists can work in a variety of settings including health organisations such as the NHS, social care, housing, education, voluntary organisations or as independent practitioners working with people of all ages.
They can specialise in mental health, physical health and learning disabilities.
The average starting salary for a registered occupational therapist working in the UK is in excess of £21,000.
A more experienced occupational therapist can earn around £40,000, and a consultant occupational therapist can earn between £66,000 and £82,000.
Employment prospects for new occupational therapists are good though ensuring your application stands out from the crowd is increasingly important.
This can be achieved by preparing a thoughtful application and demonstrating a commitment to the profession.
Unlike graduates with qualifications that are not specifically career-orientated, new occupational therapy graduates have the advantage of a structured career path with good long-term prospects in this key worker profession.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/learning-skills-teacher:
Gain invaluable 'on the job' experience as well as achieving a Level 5 Diploma in Teaching qualification.
Graduate with a set of highly valuable and transferable skills such as lesson planning, classroom practice, work-based research, teamwork and collaboration.
Gain professional recognition and develop essential knowledge and skills needed to deliver outstanding and effective training within your organisation.
It's aimed at anyone who currently works in, or plans to work in the Further Education and Skills sector.
This can include vocational education, training, coaching and mentoring roles across a variety of industries.
It's designed to develop professional teaching and learning knowledge.
It will progress your planning, designing and delivery skills, helping you become a highly reflective practitioner.
Experienced academics with a wealth of employer experience will support you to engage with teaching and learning educational theories and practice, helping you to explore how to implement this in your own delivery.
You will investigate the techniques involved in the design, development, delivery, assessment and evaluation of learning.
Literacy, numeracy and digital skills are an integral part of the apprenticeship to ensure competence in these key skills areas.
This apprenticeship programme is a mixture of University-based learning and work-based training.
With support from your employer, apprentices are required to spend 20% of paid working hours undertaking ‘off the job’ learning activities.
Apprentices will complete a mix of live teaching sessions and independent study.
The modules cover the principles of effective programme design, adaptive teaching and supporting learners with additional needs, high quality assessment strategies, and an in-depth look at research and policy.
There is a strong practical element to the programme, and apprentices will be supported in applying their new skills and knowledge within their own on-the-job teaching and training.
All apprentices will be expected to identify an area of development for a work-based action research project which they will design, implement, evaluate, and present.
You'll take part in regular meetings called tripartite reviews, providing an opportunity for your academic tutor and your work-based mentor to support you through your studies.
Varied assessment methods are used including written assignments, presentations, micro-teach, an e-portfolio of practical evidence as well as teaching observations in the workplace.
This module will introduce you to the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education and Skills sector and explore appropriate teaching and learning approaches in your subject specialist area.
You’ll gain a sound understanding of teaching your subject in a sustainable manner including resource development, assessment strategies, and ways to support your learners’ progress.
You’ll explore mechanisms of supports and approaches to behaviour management and refine your ability to create inclusive learning environments.
This module will help you develop the ability to reflect upon and evaluate your own teaching and you’ll learn the key principles that impact on how we plan and teach learners.
You’ll demonstrate effective planning and management of learning through a series of professional observations and work with experienced subject specialist mentors to refine your craft.
Throughout the module, you’ll use relevant literature and theory to justify and demonstrate your ability to develop, improve, and sequence the lessons you deliver in practice.
This module allows you to explore the wider context of curriculum design, including intent, implementation, and impact of teaching, learning, and assessment strategies, plus developments in digital technologies, fluencies, and literacy.
You’ll evaluate models of curriculum development, as well as national governmental and global policy initiatives that have significantly influenced the Further Education and Skills sector.
You’ll also investigate strategies for developing and promoting an inclusive curriculum, researching practices that will help you to identify and implement a range of strategies in the field of inclusion, tackling prejudice and discrimination.
This module continues to assess your ability to reflect upon and critically evaluate your approaches to teaching in your subject specialist area.
You’ll reflect on your journey and set targets to prepare for your professional formation year.
You’ll continue to demonstrate your ability to develop your lessons and further refine your knowledge of the wider curriculum as it applies to your subject specialism and professional practice.
You’ll also work with expert colleagues and peers to investigate, research, and improve an aspect of your subject curriculum.
You’ll learn how to conduct research in a way that will allow you to investigate the effectiveness of your teaching.
This apprenticeship is delivered through a mixture of University-based learning and online sessions.
When on-campus, you'll be based at the recently refurbished Wearside View, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
You must be able to secure 150 hours of appropriate teaching/training over the 18-month apprenticeship.
You should have a subject specialism or a vocational competence in the area you wish to teach and have up-to-date knowledge of workplace practice.
You should also be willing to develop your personal digital skills in line with the role.
Applicants must hold Maths and English GCSE at a minimum of Grade C or numerical grade 4 to 9 (or equivalent).
To search for apprenticeships offered by employers in your area go to gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship .
After completing this apprenticeship, you can progress towards Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status, which is recommended for teaching in the Further Education and Skills sector.
QTLS has legal equivalence to QTS and is recognised by some headteachers in schools.
This qualification is completed through the Society for Education and Training (SET).
Visit the SET website for further information on QTLS and to check your eligibility .
This apprenticeship covers a wide variety of teaching and training roles across a number of industries and sectors.
Speak with our team if you'd like to discuss your organisation's teaching and training development needs.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/community-youth-work:
Study for a degree while developing your practice in the workplace.
Gain the wide range of skills and knowledge required in community and youth work.
Qualify as a professional (JNC) youth worker and change the lives of young people.
This community and youth work course will allow you to use and develop your practice in the workplace and learn off the job in order to graduate and qualify as a professional (JNC) youth worker.
An apprenticeship route represents an excellent alternative way to engage with professional education.
As an apprentice, you will undertake specific practice experience to meet your own individual learning needs, as well as demonstrate the knowledge, skills and behaviours required by the apprenticeship standard; the domains of the National Occupational Standards for Youth Work at Level 6 and the criticality needed to operate as a leader in the delivery of anti-oppressive youth work practice.
Just like the practice of community and youth work, this course has been designed in a creative way and offers much more than traditional lecture and essay learning – engaging professional development is the central focus for our learning experiences and exciting curriculum.
Learning will take place both within your workplace (employer based) and on campus in Sunderland.
Your on campus learning will reflect the collaborative and empowering nature of community and youth work – so expect a lot of dialogue, reflection and group work.
As an apprentice, your employer based learning could evolve in some surprising places, such as around a pool table, on a walk, in a community café, or in a multi-agency meeting.
Throughout your degree, you'll have one-to-one support from a designated lecturer who will support your progress from Freshers' week to graduation.
The course utilises a variety of assessment methods including written assignments (reports, essays, reflections); individual, paired and group presentations; professional discussions; and the construction of portfolios.
This broad range of assessment strategies encompasses the skills required within the community and youth work profession, allowing you to develop the relevant competencies while gradually increasing your confidence during the course.
Learn about the history and evolution of community and youth work as a distinct profession, enabling current contexts to be understood through historical and developmental lenses with a focus on social justice.
Focus more directly on the profession of community and youth work in its contemporary context.
Develop your academic confidence and skills in reading, writing, group work, presentation skills, analysis of information, use of library resources, academic referencing and other study skills, to enable you to fulfil your academic potential.
Reflect on the concepts of “self”, “young people”, “community”, and “professionalism” alongside your experiences in the workplace.
Build your confidence in applying theory to practice and gain early formation of professional identity.
Gain an understanding of theorising as a useful, everyday practice rather than as a remote academic pursuit.
Bridge the transition to Year 2 while consolidating learning from across Year 1.
Gain an understanding of workplace experience reflections, exploring the concept and practice of reflexivity.
Optimise your learning via teaching inputs, workplace activity (including the development of a specific piece of work), supervision and reflection on your progress in meeting the professional expectations embedded in the NOS for Youth Work and Community Development
Focus on the impact of multiple forms of oppression, linking the local with the global and the personal.
Develop an appreciation and understanding of how oppression serves to exclude and subjugate young people and communities in myriad ways.
Consider how you risk enhancing rather than transforming oppressive forms of practice and how this can be resisted.
Analyse the leadership of self, organisations, practice and change through the lenses of rights, empowerment, equalities, ethics and professionalism.
Compile a reflexive account of your journey with leadership and create a plan for your further development and associated support needs.
Explore the complex cultural landscape in which the identities of young people and members of communities are formed and through which their lives get played out.
Explore forms of resistance through subcultures, cultural movements and collective action for social change.
Demonstrate your capacity to undertake a research project, benefitting your learning, your employing organisation, and the needs of young people in the community.
Explore how “knowledge” and “truth” are experienced using analytical explorations of everyday literacies.
Synthesise theoretical understandings with criticality in pursuit of your individual, critical praxis.
Use techniques of reflexivity that enable you to appraise your progress to consolidate your identity and growth as a professional and critical practitioner, ready to bring about transformative change in the field.
Following successful completion of the first three modules of Year 3, you will have achieved sufficient academic credits to reach the End Point Assessment (EPA).
Get support to work towards the EPA tasks: observation of practice with questions; professional discussion underpinned by a portfolio of evidence; and presentation and questioning.
You'll be based at the recently refurbished Wearside View, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
As well as meeting these academic requirements, you must be employed for a minimum of 30 hours per week in a youth work setting where you have day-to-day contact with young people, as well as a breadth of learning opportunities across the full range of knowledge, skills and behaviours within the apprenticeship standard.
It is recommended that you have completed a minimum of 100 hours of practical work with young people and/or communities prior to starting the course.
Qualified community and youth workers are in high demand.
With a varied repertoire of value-based and practice-related skills, community and youth workers find employment throughout local authorities and the voluntary, charity, and social enterprise sectors.
As a qualified professional, you’ll be eligible for the higher levels of salary scales set by the Joint Negotiating Committee for Youth and Community Workers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/senior-leader:
Explore your intrapersonal development to enhance your positive impact within an organisation.
Learn how to build and sustain effective relationships through collaboration and develop high performing teams.
Develop as an agile, strategic leader with the ability to contribute to sustainable strategic objectives.
The Senior Leader Apprenticeship is a 22-month programme which encompasses the strategic skills required of a senior leader.
It explores leadership and leader identity and what that means to each individual in the context of their organisation.
The programme will then harness the knowledge and skills that will allow a leader to develop and sustain high-performance working through their people by encompassing those important soft skills.
The University of Sunderland Senior Leader Apprenticeship incorporates an MBA qualification with no additional fees.
This can include General Managers, Senior Managers, Section Leaders, Executives, Directors, COO, CFO, CEO, CIO roles and senior military officers.
The programme has been developed in partnership with regional employers to support the enhancement of effective strategic leader knowledge, skills and behaviours.
It offers a blend of work-based learning with business, leadership and management education.
This apprenticeship will run for 22 months with an additional five months allocated to complete an End-point Assessment.
This apprenticeship has two delivery options: full online delivery or blended on-campus and online sessions.
We have intakes in September, January (full online delivery only) and April.
The programme is work based and, as such, there is a strong element of work-based learning and project work.
You will be taught via:
Scheduled teaching activities: Lectures, workshops and guest speakers
Personal: Coaching for enhanced learning, development and performance
Professional development: Tripartite meetings
Peer Learning: Action Learning sets
Independent Learning: Reading, reflection, research, data analysis, engaging in VLE discussions, assessment preparation.
Consider your leader identity, exploring your values, motives and goals for enhancing your strategic leadership capabilities in a fast changing and increasingly digital workplace.
Develop intra and interpersonal awareness through critical reflection, reflexivity and evaluate your leadership style in terms of your impact on others and the organisational context for sustainable and digital practice.
Consider the individual leader and undertake a critical and evaluative self-analysis of your personal and professional development as a strategic leader in context.
Study key themes associated with sustainable strategic leadership and management across organisational contexts incorporating both digital and face to face working environments.
Critically explore approaches and appraise contemporary perspectives designed to organise for high performance in an uncertain environment.
Develop an understanding of, assess and analyse the roles that strategic leaders play in formulating, implementing and evaluating strategy in a range of organisational contexts.
Consider how to apply the principles and techniques of strategic leadership.
Explore aspects related to organisational development, performance and sustainability in a digital world.
Consider strategic planning for functional areas within organisations that contribute to organisational performance and sustainability.
Develop your understanding of the strategic aspects of performance management and sustaining organisations.
Enhance your ability to analyse financial data, evaluate financial proposals and develop performance enhancement plans which support organisational sustainability.
Study key themes associated with innovation and change management that encourage and support organisations to perform successfully in dynamic and digital environments to ensure sustainability.
Develop your ability to set a clear agenda for innovation and change that encourages collaboration with key stakeholders.
Develop skills of critical thinking and decision making through the use of data and information.
Identify and demonstrate your ability to use analytical tools to monitor the progress and effect of innovation and change on the organisation.
Undertake a substantial Strategic Business Research Project that brings together elements of the learning from across the programme and evidence your accumulated knowledge and understanding of strategic management and leadership and its application to support a digitally sustainable organisation.
Develop the knowledge and skills related to planning and conducting a research project from both a theoretical and practical perspective.
Construct a portfolio of evidence highlighting and reflecting on examples of learning, its application and impact which will focus on critical incident analysis and personal development planning and evaluation.
You will be taught on a modern and vibrant campus with a riverside view.
There is a dedicated Faculty Librarian and IT support.
The programme is work-based and, as such, is subject to learners being employed full-time in a management position.
It is expected that participants will have a first degree or at least three years of management experience, or significant experience and a substantial record of achievement in business and leadership.
All applicants will need at least one employer reference covering the last three years of work.
Larger organisations can use their apprenticeship levy and government top-up to pay tuition and professional fees of higher and degree apprenticeships.
This course is designed for anyone moving into, or operating in, a senior management role.
The course will help you to flourish in your current senior management position or help you achieve the management position you desire including General Manager, Senior Manager, Section Leader, Executive, Director, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Information Officer roles.
Assessment method 1: Strategic business proposal, presentation with questioning
The assessment method is the production of a strategic business proposal followed by the delivery of a presentation with questioning.
The strategic business proposal must be undertaken after the apprentice has gone through the gateway.
The presentation involves the apprentice presenting their strategic business proposal to an independent assessor followed by questioning.
Assessment method 2: Professional discussion underpinned by a portfolio of evidence
A professional discussion is a two-way discussion which involves both the independent assessor and the apprentice actively listening and participating in a formal conversation.
It gives the apprentice the opportunity to make detailed and proactive contributions to confirm their competency across the KSBs mapped to this method.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/advanced-clinical-practitioner:
Study a course developed in line with the national requirements for Advanced Clinical Practice and in conjunction with local NHS trusts and healthcare providers.
Study modules that are designed to be clinically current and embedded in clinical practice.
Develop the core capabilities and advanced skills, knowledge and behaviours required for advanced clinical practice across a range of disciplines through either an adult, paediatric or chronic disease route.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner is a higher-level clinical apprenticeship programme designed and developed with local NHS trusts and healthcare providers in line with the Health Education England Multi-Professional Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice.
This framework requires healthcare professionals who are working at an advanced level have developed and can evidence the underpinning role/discipline specific competencies and the associated knowledge, skills and behaviours relevant to the clinical setting and advanced practice role.
The programme develops competency across the four pillars of Advanced Clinical Practice:
The work-based learning design of the programme also supports employers and practitioners in the development of locally negotiated competencies.
This supports new and developing Advanced Practice roles across all disciplines and areas of clinical practice.
This programme is accredited by the Centre of Advancing Practice.
Health Education England’s Centre for Advancing Practice has been established to standardise post-registration education by accrediting advanced practice courses that achieve the standards outlined in the multi-professional Advanced Practice Framework.
Practitioners who have completed accredited education programmes will be eligible to be listed on the Centre’s Advanced Practice Directory.
Programme accreditation from the Centre for Advancing Practice will bring a new level of consistency to the workforce and help showcase advanced practice within health and social care.
Read more about HEE accreditation .
Course content is designed to develop competency in the four pillars of Advanced Practice and to allow individual practitioners and ACP roles to develop according to locally negotiated competency areas where relevant.
Practitioners accessing the programme from clinical backgrounds where there are nationally accredited ACP competency areas (for example Emergency Department, Royal College of Emergency Medicine) will complete this alongside their programme as relevant and in liaison with their employer.
You will work under the supervision of an Educational Supervisor in your specialist area of practice who will assist you in the development of competency areas relevant to your practice area requirements.
There is a hybrid method of teaching used across the programme.
This includes face to face teaching such as lectures, debates, seminars, group work, case studies, problem-solving exercises, skills development, project-related work (facilitated by tutorials), directed and independent learning, remote support via online tutorials, tripartite reviews (for apprentices) and online teaching.
Assessment methods include written and practical assessments including OSCEs.
Apprentices are required to take a minimum of 20% off the job learning time to further their studies.
Progression throughout the programme is tracked by regular tripartite progression reviews.
The modules you select should reflect your employment role.
You have the option to choose one route from either adult, paediatric, or chronic disease.
Choosing from one route of either adult, paediatric, or chronic disease, develop your advanced communication, clinical assessment, examination, and clinical decision-making and management skills in your field of practice.
Develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions by discussing, debating, and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery.
Set a range of locally negotiated competency areas which may be role or profession specific to facilitate the journey towards advanced practice.
Deconstruct a complex case from practice and critically appraise the care decisions made, the interventions undertaken, and identify, debate and analyse the key components of your decision-making.
Become a safe and effective prescribing practitioner.
Work in practice with an assigned practice assessor; a registered healthcare professional and experienced prescriber with suitable equivalent qualifications for the programme.
You may also work with other practice supervisors including other non-medical prescribers, pharmacists, or doctors where relevant to gain a wider understanding of prescribing practices.
Develop your advanced communication, clinical assessment, examination, clinical decision-making, and management skills in your field of practice.
Develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions by discussing, debating, and reviewing alternative approaches to delivery that meet the medico-legal requirements in preparation for a Paediatric Advanced Clinical Practitioner (ACP) role.
You will cover topics that focus on:
Develop the ability to complete a focused assessment of the patient with chronic disease and clinical decision-making and management skills in relation to chronic diseases.
Apprentices will develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions in relation to chronic disease management by discussing, debating, and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery that meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice and have ethical and moral principles embedded throughout.
To access this module as part of the ACP programme you must have level 6 clinical skills or equivalent.
Develop a wider, role-specific knowledge of medications management relevant for Advanced Clinical Practice.
Advance your ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions in relation to medicines by discussing, debating, and reviewing the appropriateness of interventions and alternative approaches to care delivery, including pharmacological and therapeutic interventions which meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice and have ethical and moral principles embedded throughout.
This module is perfect for practitioners prescribing in new or advancing roles, those who can't prescribe but need an enhanced knowledge of medicines management in context (for example Occupational Therapists), or those who require enhanced medications knowledge as part of their professional credentials (for example RCEM).
Fulfil the requirements of the role as outlined in the national framework for the ACP Education Pillar.
Engage in peer learning and practice community and your individual partnerships with your practice, educational and academic supervisor.
Gain confidence and expertise by creating an inclusive learning environment, linking to the standards for learning and assessment in practice using teaching and learning methodologies in clinical practice.
Develop teaching materials ensuring a teaching plan is formulated, along with differing approaches to learning, such as simulation scenario, recognising peer support alternate learning styles and coaching approaches.
Evidence and better understand and use leadership capabilities as a lesser-known dimension of ACP roles.
Develop language that describes ACP leadership to help you to then recognise the leadership capabilities you demonstrate as part of your daily practice.
Develop the ability to describe your leadership role to policymakers, decision-makers, other healthcare professionals and the public, enhancing understanding of the ACP role and optimising ACP leadership capabilities in dynamic, unpredictable settings.
Develop leadership capability to improve service and practice and to lead across patient, organisational and system goals.
Develop your abilities in critical appraisal, research utilisation and the application to informing and improving clinical practice.
Understand the wider context of evidence-based practice and the scientific paradigm, developing a deeper understanding of the philosophical, theoretical and methodological basis of clinical research and the practical application of research concepts and findings to advanced practice.
Explore the underpinning rationale behind clinical developments from a research, political and ethical perspective.
Analyse the role of evidence-based practice from a policy-making perspective and consider the wider issues which interplay to shape clinical services.
Gain the confidence to disseminate research findings across your clinical networks.
Reflect on, and provide evidence of the contextualisation of the four pillars of advanced practice as relevant to your area of practice.
Utilising a systematic approach to critical enquiry, identify and deconstruct pertinent issues in the literature to develop a comprehensive review of a relevant topic to your specialist area, taking into account the socioeconomic and political drivers underpinning service development, delivery and practice change.
This critical review will form the basis for a comprehensive discussion prepared for publication to a peer audience.
On successful completion of the apprenticeship/programme, you will be able to manage defined episodes of clinical care independently, from beginning to end, providing care and treatment from the time an individual first presents through to the end of the episode, which may include admission, referral or discharge or care at home.
At this stage the MSc degree will have combined academic and work based learning and assessment together with the end point assessment that provides synoptic assessment of the achievement of knowledge, skills and behaviours outlined in the HEE Advanced Clinical Practice Framework and Apprenticeship standard.
This assessment will deliver a valid, reliable and independent judgement that you have achieved the standard required in order to be awarded the MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner.
We use a hybrid approach to teaching by utilising our exceptional Sciences Complex resources, together with an online virtual learning environment.
You can therefore make use of the excellent facilities and resources both on and off campus.
The programme is work-based and, as such, is subject to learners being employed full-time in an ACP position, a trainee ACP position or equivalent.
Applicants must be employed by a supporting trust to access the apprenticeship programme and meet the following entry criteria: Registered healthcare professional registered with the NMC, HCPC or equivalent Employed in an ACP, trainee ACP role or equivalent Hold a 2:2 or above in a first degree or have significant relevant recent level 6 study.
Applicants who do not hold a first degree are invited to discuss their application with the programme lead prior to application All applicants who are not qualified V300 prescribers, or HCPC prescribers must also meet the entry requirements of the Enhanced Prescribing for Health Professionals Applicants whose first language is not English, must achieve a minimum IELTS score of 7 Have a designated educational supervisor who will support the applicant for the duration of the programme.
Apprentices who begin their training at age 19 or older are no longer required to achieve English and Maths qualifications in order to complete their apprenticeship.
Recruitment and selection are via application and interview with the supporting NHS Trusts/employers.
The applicants’ manager/practice training and education manager must support all applications to the programme.
The University will retain the right to interview candidates.
All requirements of the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) in the apprenticeship standards for entry and off the job learning (OJL) time will be met.
For further information about the programme please see our information for applicants (.pdf) , or contact Victoria Duffy, Programme Leader at victoria.duffy@sunderland.ac.uk .
This programme is a key qualification needed for anyone wanting to become an advanced clinical practitioner or operate in an advanced practice role.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/engineering-practice:
Graduate with a powerful set of engineering knowledge and skills.
Make a vital contribution to the business needs of your employer.
Specialise in an electronic or electrical manufacturing pathway.
The Engineering Degree Apprenticeship suite consists of two pathways, Manufacturing Engineering Practice or Electronic and Electrical Engineering Practice.
For all engineering degree apprenticeship students, stage 3 evaluates the emerging political, environmental and commercial drivers for change in the engineering industry, and explores the changes that these are likely to bring to the manufacturing sector.
Developments in your professional skills will focus upon enhancing your ability to contribute fully to your business within, around and out with the specific context of your technical role.
You will undertake a significant individual project based in your place of work.
Teaching on this programme is planned to take place one day a week at the University.
A variety of teaching styles will be employed depending on the subject needs, this includes lectures, tutorial groups, project work, group work, and laboratory work.
A variety of assessment strategies will also be included ranging between exams, coursework, laboratory reports, reflective journals and presentations.
Where possible real-life projects will be a feature of assessments.
Students on the electrical and electronic degree apprenticeship also investigate the nature of the supply of electrical energy to industry, the nature of electrical drives associated with manufacturing industry, and further explore the applications of electronic systems in the industrial environment.
You will apply the principles developed in the programme during your employment, and will also routinely bring your experience and observations from work into the classroom.
Examine the mathematical principles which have a particular focus on the analysis of engineering problems and manufacturing process control.
Develop your knowledge and analytical ability so that you can independently apply mathematical techniques to determine appropriate solutions to a range of engineering problems.
Gain an introduction to the fundamental electrical and mechanical engineering principles and explore their use in a range of engineering applications.
Engage in topics such as electrical and mechanical fundamentals, basic electrical theory and machines, alternating circuits, and laws of motion.
Focus on manufacturing techniques and processes (traditional and advanced) while gaining an overview of the materials most commonly used in engineering manufacturing systems.
Gain an awareness of the comparative costs and of the environmental and ethical issues surrounding the use of the materials and processes discussed.
Learn to explain the principle requirements of current ISO drawing standards as applied to mechanical engineering drawing.
Gain an understanding of how to explain the creative design process and the tools used in its application.
Create and interpret engineering drawings using an industry standard CAD package.
Apply the creative design process in order to arrive at an appropriate concept solution to a range of engineering design problems.
Explore instrumentation and data analysis in the context of an analogue environment interfacing with the ‘digital world’ in which control decisions will be made.
Examine topics such as basic sensors and associated electronics, microprocessors and microcontrollers, and data capture and offline analysis.
Gain an introduction to a range of practical engineering skills, then develop the broader planning and team skills required to work together in the design and implementation of a simple engineering artifact.
Explore the differences and similarities between ‘process innovation’ and ‘product innovation’.
Compare and contrast the essential characteristics of a range of manufacturing process innovation tools.
Determine the essential considerations involved in process innovation proposals.
Explain the ethical and environmental considerations in manufacturing processes.
Determine the optimal process proposal through the analysis and evaluation of significant criteria.
Study the concepts of industrial automation.
Explore the different types of actuator used in industry.
Develop and automated control system as part of a team.
Develop a greater understanding of electrical machines by performing a range of electrical experiments using generators and motors.
Learn to design electronic signal conditioning circuits using simulation software.
Gain further understanding of fault finding and testing of electrical and electronic circuits.
Engage in and develop personal and professional skills over the duration of the course.
Develop your knowledge and understanding of engineering principles and practice.
Work in groups to understand a project specification and develop a work plan to achieve the specified project aims.
Apply knowledge of engineering and analytical skills to solve an industrially relevant problem as a team.
Gain an appreciation of the practical, commercial, and professional considerations and processes involved in enhancing the efficiency and productivity of an engineering process.
Build on technical knowledge developed in other modules and focus on professional and practical considerations.
Gain a critical understanding of the operating characteristics of system components within Electricity Generation, Transmission and Distribution, and the techniques that may be employed to model them.
Explore the range of sources of energy available for power generation, and economic factors relevant to the provision, and use of, electrical power.
Analyse the steady state performance and interpret practical operating data for power system components, such as generators, transformers, and transmission lines.
Critically discuss and evaluate the modes of operation of and the modulation techniques used in a range of topical electronic communications media.
Gain an understanding and application of industry-standard software for high level and assembly-based developments.
Design, implement, and evaluate LAN and WAN connection technologies.
Select and apply the various tools, technologies, and protocols used in the design, development, and testing of microprocessor-based systems.
Demonstrate your advanced knowledge of engineering and analytical skills gained in previous modules by applying them to an industrially relevant project.
Students on the manufacturing degree apprenticeship also engage in the design of manufacturing processes and explore approaches to ensuring quality and reliability in the manufacturing industry.
You will apply the principles developed in the programme during your employment, and will also routinely bring your experience and observations from work into the classroom.
Learn to describe and evaluate eight types of ‘waste’ in the context of manufacturing and service industries.
Gain an understanding of a range of ‘lean’ tools that will enable you to reduce/eliminate waste within a process.
Learn how to critically describe lean manufacturing concepts and compile proposals while developing the skills required to enable this.
Critically discuss current manufacturing processes, philosophies, and practices, as well as a range of current lean manufacturing process assessment tools and techniques.
Evaluate a variety of manufacturing process assessment and simulation tools and apply them to design a more effective process.
Gain an introduction to the Taguchi approach to quality and his philosophy that poor quality can’t be improved by inspection processes, rather that quality must be based upon the philosophy of prevention.
Critically discuss and describe a range of management tools to promote and control quality and reliability in a manufacturing environment.
Learn to evaluate and apply management tools and techniques to control quality.
The David Goldman Technology Centre is a high-tech computing environment with strong links to software companies and a constant exchange of ideas and people.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the David Goldman Technology Centre.
When it comes to IT provision you can take your pick from hundreds of PCs in the David Goldman Informatics Centre and St Peter’s Library.
There are also free WiFi zones throughout the campus.
If you have any problems, just ask the friendly helpdesk team.
You will be based at the David Goldman Informatics Centre.
You will have access to a range of industry-leading technologies at the Industry Centre, the home of the Institute of Automotive and Manufacturing Advanced Practice as well as access to industrial standard software to help prepare you for a future career in a digital context.
The programme is work-based and, as such, is subject to the apprentice being employed by an organisation throughout the duration of the programme.
Due to the nature of the programme you will be employed for the duration of study; this is likely to extend well beyond the programme.
During the programme, you will make an increasing contribution to the employer and will become a highly regarded employee capable of applying engineering knowledge and skills to solve real problems in a commercial context.
To search for apprenticeships offered by employers in your area go to: gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Technology

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/leadership-and-change-sc:
Develop your skills and become a better leader.
Engage in transformational learning and change.
Return to the workplace with new skills and development opportunities.
This course focuses on your personal, professional and academic development needs and your ability to engage in transformational learning and change.
You'll develop your skills, become a better leader and learn how to recognise and apply theories related to effective leadership and change management.
Please contact your Study Centre for more information about the delivery of this course.
Teaching is delivered through a mix of lectures, interactive sessions and role playing; directed reading, which will involve reference being made to course texts, journal articles and websites; web-based discussion forums and activities; personal development planning related to personality profile analysis; and researching and compiling individual presentations for contribution to group discussions to stimulate action learning.
Teaching will be delivered over 10 full day sessions over 10 months.
Please contact Chevron Training for information on facilities:
Chevron Training Innovation House Anne Street Wexford Ireland
+01 6855 300 info@chevrontraining.ie
This course is taught at one of our partners.
For contact details, click on the tab on the left-hand side.
This is a work-based learning qualification.
You are eligible for this course if you have undertaken an undergraduate degree or have relevant equivalent professional experience.
Please contact the study centre for more information on their specific requirements and equivalent qualifications.
For available funding opportunities please contact esf@sunderland.ac.uk .
For more information on studying this course, contact the ESF team on 0191 515 3361 / esf@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  15 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/undergraduate-childhood-studies:
Children are at the heart of society.
Whether you want to work in classrooms, communities, policy spaces, or global organisations, Childhood Studies gives you the tools, insight, and passion to lead the way.
If you’re passionate about making a difference in the lives of children and young people, Childhood Studies is the perfect starting point.
This dynamic and interdisciplinary degree explores the development, rights, and lived experiences of children from birth to adolescence.
You’ll study childhood through social, psychological, educational, cultural, and political lenses – helping you understand how children grow, learn, and interact with the world around them.
It’s not just about theory – it’s about real change.
You’ll explore current debates and policies affecting children and families, and gain the skills to lead, advocate, and support children in a variety of settings.
A typical week on the BA (Hons) Childhood Studies course will include lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, and computer-based learning.
Your progress will be assessed with essays, reports, group work, seminar presentations, and self-evaluation.
Throughout the degree, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff to help you get the best out of your assignments.
Gain an understanding of the concept of ‘childhood’ from diverse viewpoints and examine the implications for the representation, categorisation, and status of childhood within society.
Consider your own perceptions and experiences, as well as the underlying values and assumptions that underpin them.
Explore a range of perspectives on childhood to determine the similarities and differences that underlie the evolving conceptions.
Examine the consequences that various ‘models’ of childhood and ‘the child’ hold for practical applications and adult interactions with children.
Learn about the social construction of childhood and its importance within the field of childhood studies.
Examine key traditional and contemporary theories of child development.
Gain an understanding of developmental theory and learn how the different perspectives on child development impacts on the approaches used in childhood settings today.
Explore the importance of holistic development of the child and the interrelationship between different aspects of development, such as emotional, social, physical and cognitive.
Explore the foundations of schooling from the end of the 19th century, moving towards the 20th and 21st centuries.
Identify 'learning practices' in school and how these fit within different curriculum models and learning theories.
Discuss the relevance and impact on children's learning of the National Curriculum and Early Years Foundation Stage in terms of their structure.
Gain support with your academic transition into Higher Education with an introduction to the academic literacy practices required to be successful at university.
Reflect upon your personal and professional understanding of learning in Higher Education.
Become an active and independent learner who can identify approaches to study.
Develop the academic skills, competencies and qualities expected of you on this course.
Gain an introduction to the key traditional and contemporary theories of child development and how these can be applied to planned activities for children.
Make links to placement experience via reflective practice.
Explore the strengths and challenges of integrated learning.
Examine the different ways that integrated learning can be practised focusing on various policies and initiatives, for example, the National Curriculum and Early Years Foundation Stage, while highlighting implications for teachers and pupils.
Explore key ideas, concepts, and perspectives to understand how to carry out research within the field of childhood studies.
Examine research theory and how it relates to researching with, for, and about children and young people.
Develop a research project around a relevant childhood topic of your choice, as well as a literature review outlining the key debates that will help contextualise your topic.
Explore, analyse, and evaluate research approaches, methods, and ethical considerations that apply to your research.
Build on the skills and knowledge required for your Year 3 dissertation project.
Examine a range of theoretical perspectives that are relevant to global experiences of children and young people in a range of cultures and countries.
Take a thematic approach to exploring issues that include poverty, work, education, health and war, as well as analysing the impact of social, cultural and political circumstances.
Critically appraise specific themes in relation to the impact of a range of influences and issues on the lived experiences of children and young people.
Learn through active collaboration, using problem-based learning to bring contributions to the understanding of real-life problems.
Spend time in a community setting and identify strategies and interventions working with different groups of people.
Develop your understanding of how theory and practice are linked and gain transferable skills for professional practice such as teamwork, problem solving and communication.
This module explores the dynamic relationship between conceptual and physical spaces within the context of childhood and youth.
Emphasising the agency of children and young people, you’ll critically engage with contemporary theories, research, and practices that challenge traditional views of children and young people as passive recipients of adult structures.
The module encourages creative and critical thinking to envision spaces that empower and support children and young people.
This module will allow you to consider the holistic development of children in the first three years of childhood in different contexts, for example, the family and day care.
You’ll explore the significance of care giving practices, strategies, and the importance of early intervention that enables babies and young children to thrive.
The role of professionals working in a variety of settings within the early childhood sector will also be examined in relation to supporting parents and carers to meet the needs of young children.
Explore leadership theory and how it relates to work within settings for children and young people.
Debate team working, leading change and conflict resolution alongside different challenges and opportunities for effective leadership.
Place theory into practice and practice into theory by utilising and connecting the lecture material and reading to recorded leadership conversations with professionals across the childhood and youth sector.
Build on the knowledge you’ve gained throughout the course by linking to the development of your research project completed in Year 2.
Develop your understanding of the strengths and limitations of approaches to research methods with reference to your chosen childhood topic.
Investigate the literature relating to your topic by implementing a strategy, reflecting on the research outcomes, and presenting an account of the investigation in the form of a dissertation.
Links will be made to practice and placement experiences in line with the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies.
Read about the jobs you could get with a social science degree
Explore the impact studying social sciences can have on the way you think
You must have a Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) check before you can start this course and you'll also need to complete a medical pro forma.
Read more about funding for Armed Forces personnel .
A Childhood Studies degree helps you build a career working with children in many important ways.
You could work in nurseries, schools, or children’s homes, support families, or help children through play and therapy.
Some graduates go into jobs that focus on helping communities, making children’s lives better, or working with councils and charities.
Others choose to keep studying to become teachers, social workers, therapists, or child psychologists.
Gain additional experience of working with children from the ages of 0-8 and develop your practical skills in a range of settings by opting for the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies (ECGPC) route alongside your childhood studies degree.
You'll be able to choose this option from your first semester and follow it for the duration of your course.
You'll also develop a portfolio of evidence and a range of practical and transferable professional skills whilst attending placements, which will enable you to work with children, other professionals, and parents and carers.
Your portfolio of evidence, along with your end of year assessments, will be based on nine different competencies, including advocating for children’s rights, observing children, planning activities for children, and developing your professional skills.
Developing these pieces of evidence and your practical skills are excellent for your progression after you complete your degree.
Your next steps may include furthering your studies or entering into your chosen career, and by completing the ECGPC route, you will be adding credence to your applications.
You'll be a recognised Early Years practitioner (at level 6) and employers and education establishments will know that you've completed relevant practice experience.
If you choose to take this pathway, you'll graduate with the degree title BA (Hons) Childhood Studies with Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies.
Hear more about the ECGPC pathway from one of our graduates .
The University of Sunderland’s Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) regularly hosts visiting speakers and it can be an excellent way to learn from the experiences of people who already have a strong track record in social policy.
CASS is the centre for applied social science research at the University and you may find opportunities to collaborate with the academic team – particularly on areas relating to children, young people, and families.
The Childhood Studies team come from a diverse range of professional and academic backgrounds.
They're research-active in a variety of childhood-related subjects including children's development, early years practice, inclusive education, special educational needs and disabilities, education for sustainable development, childhood identity and social media, children's literature, and childhood transitions.
Their expertise in these areas is used to inform modules on the childhood studies course.
Members of the team are also involved with external activities such as working with children's charities, local schools, and early years settings.
Actively engaging with our employer networks in this way supports our emphasis on developing your employability.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Education and Society .
Page last updated:  14 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/respiratory-disease:
Develop your knowledge and skills in managing patients who have respiratory diseases.
Acquire theoretical and practical skills relevant for practice while promoting a holistic, patient centred approach to management.
The aim of this 20 credit module is to equip those whose work involves managing patients who have respiratory diseases to develop their knowledge and skills in this area.
This 4-month module aims to equip those whose work involves managing patients who have respiratory diseases to refresh their knowledge and skills in this area.
The module will cover focused consultation skills, diagnosis of asthma and COPD incorporating World Health Organisation (WHO) and National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines, the fundamentals involved in managing patients with respiratory disease, pharmacological management of patients with respiratory diseases, practical skills such as spirometry and inhaler usage and the basics of a respiratory examination.
Students will be classroom based for the four full day taught sessions which will be over a four month period and will be expected to work with a clinical lead in practice to refresh and update the knowledge and skills learnt in the classroom.
This course is delivered by University of Sunderland Clinical Sciences lecturers and is taught over four full days over a four-month period at the University.
Each day uses a variety of teaching and learning methods including interactive workshops and will focus on a specific topic that you can then consolidate in clinical practice.
Assessment methods include a poster presentation and VIVA.
This course is based in the Sciences Complex at our City Campus, which boasts excellent facilities and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
We usually require applicants to be health care professionals.
You should be working in a clinical setting where your work involves delivering respiratory services.
To apply or find out more about this programme, please contact the CaPE team: cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-mass-communications:
If you are applying for this course from outside of the UK, click apply now
This course offers a unique balance of analytical insight and hands-on creative production.
You'll engage with some of the most pressing debates shaping today’s global media landscape – from digital platforms and popular culture to global media flows and professional communication practices.
Through four integrated core modules, you’ll explore a range of screen and media formats, research methods, and communication strategies.
You'll also undertake an independent project, where you can focus on either a written dissertation or a media-based creative output.
Rather than dividing theory and practice into separate pathways, this course sees them as interdependent.
You’ll critically evaluate cultural and media forms while developing your own communication skills across academic and professional contexts.
You’ll be supported by academic tutors and industry-informed teaching throughout the year.
If you're looking to advance your media skills while deepening your understanding of communication’s role in society and culture, this top-up degree offers the ideal route to graduation.
The course allows you to produce academic research and creative media content, preparing you for diverse careers in the media and communications industries
We use a variety of teaching methods including lectures, demonstrations, screenings, seminars, workshops, tutorials, small-group work, debates, group and individual project work, independent learning, open and resource-based learning, multimedia and new media learning, production practice, and work placements.
Generally, the theory modules employ a lecture-plus-seminar format, while practice modules use workshop-tutorial and/or lecture-tutorial formats.
Assessment methods include portfolios of practical work, essays, examinations, reports, and presentations.
How does media shape the way we see each other across cultures?
Explore key theories of culture, communication, and media, and how they influence the way we connect in a globalised world.
Uncover how media representations shape cultural perceptions and power, and explore the challenges of communicating across different cultures.
Topics like globalisation, migration, cultural hybridity, and digital divides will help you build a critical understanding of the world around you.
How are storytelling and profit connected in today’s world?
Uncover the powerful links between advertising, branding, and quality television drama.
As well as other media forms, by tracing their historical roots and industrial growth.
Examine how media is made, sold, and consumed, and dive into key global debates about its influence on society.
Through critical analysis, you’ll develop a strong understanding of how creative content and commercial interests shape the media we see every day.
How do media creators shape stories and how do audiences respond?
Critically explore popular media forms using key theories, while also developing hands-on production skills.
Explore how media is made, what keeps audiences engaged, and how cultural context affects both creators and consumers.
Alongside this, you’ll produce your own media work, building practical skills that reflect your personal and professional interests.
What does it take to succeed in the media and communications industries?
Prepare yourself for a professional career by developing advanced skills in media production, project management, and critical thinking.
Work on real-world projects, build industry ready teamwork and networking skills, and reflect on the ethical and legal responsibilities of media creators.
By the end of the module, you’ll produce a polished professional portfolio that showcases both your creative talent and academic insight.
We continually invest in industry-standard equipment and our David Puttnam Media Centre is a centre for excellence for training students.
The typical entry requirement is the successful completion of one of the following: BTEC HND in a subject related to mass communications Foundation Degree in a subject related to mass communications 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant subject.
We'll consider applications from applicants who don't hold one of the qualifications in the list above but who do have relevant experience.
Graduates of this course are prepared for a diverse range of roles across the media, communications and creative industries.
You’ll leave with both the critical thinking and project management skills sought by employers, and a portfolio of work that may include academic writing, professional reports, or creative media content.
Whether you aim to work in journalism, marketing, PR, digital content, broadcasting, or media research, this course equips you with the adaptability and expertise needed to thrive in fast-changing professional environments.
You'll graduate with:
Page last updated:  10 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/public-allied-health/occupational-therapy-accelerated:
Gain real-life experience through practice placements and apply your learning to real-life situations.
Graduate with the knowledge and skills to enable people to facilitate their recovery and overcome any barriers preventing them from doing the activities (or occupations) that matter to them.
Complete your degree in two years with our accelerated course.
Underpinned by the professional belief that occupation and wellbeing are linked, Occupational Therapists use occupation as both the goal and main tool of intervention.
During the lifespan, occupational participation may be disrupted by ability, a condition, an illness, an injury or a state of mind that can cause a mismatch between the person's ability, the demands of the occupation and/or the environment.
Occupational therapists enable participation through modifying occupations, promoting new skills or approaches, adapting environments, or a combination of these.
You will have the opportunity to learn from people who are experts by their own lived experience who have used health and social care services and who are fully integrated into the learning and teaching across the course.
This ensures that you develop your skills prior to practice placement and receive feedback in a safe and secure learning environment.
Through this process you will be more confident and competent when engaging with people on placement which will support your learning in practice to flourish.
You will be taught by a highly skilled and motivated team of lecturers, visiting practitioners and volunteers who are experts by their lived experience.
Teaching methods include online lectures, seminars and workshops.
There may also be off campus teaching sessions in public facilities such as swimming pools or the beach.
A mixture of group work and problem-based learning methods are used in conjunction with resources on our virtual learning platform Canvas and via a unique learning environment Thinglink.
You will be supported by a tutor, and you can arrange one-to-one or group tutorials with them.
You will also have the opportunity to work and learn alongside students from other professions and to learn about the other professions through participation in inter-professional education.
You will be assessed through written assignments, presentations, demonstrations and observed, structured, practical assessments (OSPA).
Every assessment is an individual assessment, there are no group assessments.
During your practice placement you will be assessed by a Practice Placement Educator.
Practice placements form a significant part of this course.
You will successfully complete a minimum of 1000 hours practice placement.
During your practice placement you will benefit from supervision from a practice placement educator as well as support from academic staff.
The course operates over the same number of academic weeks as a three-year course however, there are fewer holiday weeks which enables you to complete it over a shorter time.
In addition, towards the end of the course, in order to help students transition from academic life to work life, some modules are taught during placement time, to imitate how staff in practice undertake their continuous professional development.
This format has been designed following feedback from students who have felt the long holidays interrupt their learning flow and have resulted in them finding it difficult to slip back into academic study after a holiday.
We recognise that this may not suit applicants who like longer periods of time to reflect on their learning.
If you would like to discuss your learning style before deciding which course to apply for, please contact the admissions tutor, who will be happy to provide advice.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex in our City Campus, which has benefited from a recent multimillion pound investment.
Teaching takes place in multi-media classrooms with state-of-the-art resources for learning, including a simulation flat, creative activities room, telecare facilities and a therapeutic garden.
The Darwin Building includes a simulated living suite and multi-media workshop alongside two rehabilitation labs.
It has shared spaces for Physiotherapy and Sport and Exercise Sciences which include a fully-equipped gym with a range of cardiovascular and resistance training equipment.
BTEC Extended National Diploma (Sport and Exercise Science, Health Science, and Applied Science preferred) DMM.
If you meet these requirements, then your application and personal statement will be individually assessed by the Admissions Tutor and if successful, you will be shortlisted for interview.
Values-based interview All shortlisted applicants must attend an individual and group interview as part of the selection process.
Your values, behaviours, problem-solving, and communication skills will also be assessed.
The interview panel will include academic staff, Occupational Therapy practitioners, and experts by their lived experience.
Occupational Therapists are registered health care professionals and the ability to practise safely, effectively, and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
Please refer to the HEOPS occupational therapy student fitness standards A self-declaration form about your conduct Obtain an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
The cost of the DBS check is covered by the University Instructions on how you complete these checks will be sent to you once you hold a conditional firm offer with us.
Second reference You will be asked to provide a second written reference as part of the interview process.
The reference can be from your current employer, character reference (e.g.
former employer, colleague, teacher, advisor, etc.), or from a supervisor in a voluntary role.
If you are currently employed, the reference should be from your employer.
You need to demonstrate the ability to: Study academic subjects at the course level Debate topics and issues Draw on conclusions from written material Study independently and as part of a group Use computers and technology associated with teaching, learning and assessment Interact with people in an appropriate manner demonstrating the values of the health and care professions Demonstrate an understanding of and commitment to, the course Applicants and enrolled students must be able to demonstrate that they meet the professional standards for practice, as well as the ethical and professional conduct expectations of the profession, throughout their time in training.
All shortlisted applicants must attend an individual and group interview as part of the selection process.
You will be asked to provide a second written reference as part of the interview process.
Applicants and enrolled students must be able to demonstrate that they meet the professional standards for practice, as well as the ethical and professional conduct expectations of the profession, throughout their time in training.
The annual fees for this course are:
For practice placements, you will need to buy a suitable pair of shoes that meet health and safety requirements, and the University will provide you with a uniform.
Occupational Therapists can work in a variety of settings including health organisations such as the NHS, social care, housing, education, voluntary organisations or as independent practitioners working with people of all ages.
According to National Careers , the average starting salary for a registered occupational therapist working in the UK is around £28,000.
A more experienced occupational therapist can earn up to £50,000.
On successful completion of the BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy (Accelerated) course, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a Graduate Occupational Therapist and can apply for professional membership of the professional body the Royal College of Occupational Therapists.
Please note that completing an approved course does not guarantee you will become registered as an Occupational Therapist with the Health and Care Professions Council.
It shows that you meet the minimum professional standards and are eligible to apply for registration.
Please refer to the Health and Care Professions Council .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/health-clinical-sciences/undergraduate-audiology:
Prepare for a role as a healthcare science practitioner in NHS audiology.
The BSc (Hons) Audiology degree will prepare you for a role as a healthcare science practitioner in NHS audiology.
The taught component of this course is designed to be delivered predominantly online, with a one week block attendance required at the University's City Campus each semester.
In addition to the taught component of this course, you'll be required to complete a mandatory integrated clinical placement.
This placement will be a minimum of 50 weeks, across the three years of the course in an audiology department.
The course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare Science and follows the Practitioner Training Programme.
There is significant demand for audiologists, and upon graduation you'll be eligible to register with the Academy of Healthcare Science and practise within NHS departments.
The course integrates traditional lectures, interactive laboratory and simulation practical's, seminars, and workshops, including verbal presentations and posters, group work, case-based learning, directed learning, and research project supervision.
Audiological competency development is primarily delivered via an integrated clinical placement within an approved NHS training department.
You'll be assessed using a combination of formative and summative assessments throughout the course.
Assessment methods include exams, assignments, essays, and presentations.
You'll also be assessed by the submission of clinical competency logbooks, which include evidence collected as part of your mandatory audiology clinical placements.
Gain an introduction to the concepts and application of instrumentation used in the neurosensory sciences together with an appreciation of the physical and mathematical principles that underpin these concepts and measurements.
You'll be introduced to the principles and methods of psychophysics, psychoacoustics, and sound perception.
You'll also study causes of balance disorders, and be introduced to routine tests of balance assessment.
Develop your understanding of the anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of the ear, hearing and balance, in terms of normal structure and physiological function and of how pathological processes affect both.
Explore health education and screening principles to improve public health related to hearing/balance/tinnitus.
Build upon your understanding of the basic principles of audiological assessment of hearing and balance.
The anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology of the vestibular system will be also examined.
This module builds on the Audiology professional competencies you developed during Year 2.
You'll apply the knowledge and skills you've learned throughout the course to develop and carry out a research project.
The John Dawson Sciences Complex, Helen McArdle House, Edinburgh, and Priestman Buildings are primarily accessed for teaching.
Interview Shortlisted applicants will participate in a selection interview, which will be conducted by a panel with members from the University of Sunderland, NHS based Audiology Head of Service/Training Lead, and the Patient Carer and Public Involvement participant (PCPI) group.
Shortlisted applicants will participate in a selection interview, which will be conducted by a panel with members from the University of Sunderland, NHS based Audiology Head of Service/Training Lead, and the Patient Carer and Public Involvement participant (PCPI) group.
Successful completion of this course will enable you to be eligible for professional registration and suitable for NHS employment as a Healthcare Science Practitioner in Audiology.
Upon completion of this course you'll be well-prepared to apply for roles as a healthcare science practitioner in the NHS, with a specialism in audiology.
Audiology professionals can work in a variety of settings including hospitals and carry out a wide range of duties including assessment and rehabilitation of people with hearing loss or balance disorders.
As a healthcare profession, audiology also involves assessment, management and therapeutic rehabilitation of people with hearing and balance problems, and associated disorders.
This work involves patients of all ages, from children to adults and elderly people.
New and exciting opportunities exist in this expanding field.
Audiology is a fast-evolving and varied discipline.
A desire to work with and help people is essential and forms an important component of both training and the job.
There are excellent employment opportunities within NHS clinical practice.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/mentoring-and-coaching:
Enhance your career with a Mentoring and Coaching qualification.
Explore mentoring and coaching of colleagues, students or other staff in educational establishments.
Apply your learning to your own teaching position.
This is a Level 7 course for teachers and educators.
You will explore the principles, concepts, theories and models relating to the development of coaching, guidance and mentoring skills, and evaluate the impact these might have on teaching and learning.
Developing supportive relationships, both personal and professional, and awareness of the potential of all learners is an important element of this course.
You will be taught via tutor and group-led discussion sessions, case studies, self/peer reflection, evaluation of visual or audio recordings, research and self-directed study.
Assessment methods include written commentary and transcript and a written report.
Mentoring and Coaching
You will be expected to demonstrate the development of related skills including active listening skills, the personal qualities that underpin effective learning relationships and the ability to integrate these skills into their professional practice.
This course is delivered at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
Applicants are required to be working in an educator role.
The course fees vary depending on your status:
To be eligible for this funding you will need to be employed by a Sunderland-based company, excluding the public sector.
For more information on studying this course, contact:
Corporate and Professional Education Team 0191 515 3361 cape@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  08 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/social-emotional-mental-health-needs:
Support children and families in maintaining good mental health.
Critically examine a range of needs across different phases of education and contexts.
Gain credits to transfer towards obtaining a full master's degree.
It's been designed in response to strong market demand for practitioners to be given the opportunity to enhance their understanding of evidence-based approaches to supporting those with mental health needs.
The course will help you meet the demands and challenges associated with the rising prevalence of SEMH needs nationally, regionally, and locally.
The purpose of the course is to critically examine a range of needs across different phases in education and contexts.
You'll explore the challenges associated with defining these needs, both politically and when related to research.
You'll also look into the challenges associated with creating effective policy to meet learners with SEMH needs.
You'll have opportunities to critically appraise the factors that can lead to ill mental health in children, young people, and adults, plus those who support them.
The course draws on theoretical approaches which can then be applied to different educational contexts, and the assessments are designed to reflect the variety of environments that you work in, helping you to improve.
The course is delivered over ten weeks, with a 3-hour session taking place on-campus in Sunderland each week.
The course will be delivered through a variety of tutor-directed and student-centred learning activities, together with an emphasis on supporting independent self-study and participative learning.
Acquisition of learning outcomes is gained through a combination of taught seminars, directed tasks and tutor-directed study, and independent self-directed study.
You'll be encouraged to proactively undertake independent reading both to supplement and consolidate learning, and broaden your individual knowledge.
The Reg Vardy Centre is a modern building with views of the river, and just a short walk from both the coast and Sunderland city centre.
To apply for this course, you must already hold an honours degree or equivalent.
To apply or find out more about this course, please contact the CaPE team: cape@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/psychology-clinical-skills:
Understand key aspects of clinical psychology and consider what kind of practitioner you want to be.
Develop the skills necessary to work with people who have mental health problems.
Graduate with a comprehensive view of what clinical psychology is and what it can achieve.
Through our integrated modules, you will gain an understanding of all aspects of psychology (such as developmental, biological, cognitive, and evolutionary), considering the overlaps and how this can explain and help to treat different mental health problems.
You will be introduced to key concepts in clinical psychology such as patient assessment, formulation and professional and ethical conduct.
There is an emphasis on practical skills and reflective practice throughout the course in addition to studying topics such as addiction, psychosis, cognitive and emotional impairments, and depression.
Learn about mental health in depth, considering ethical and current issues around policy and politics of diagnosis and assessment.
With further modules based around patient care and assessment, formulation, and professional and ethical conduct, you will develop the skills to become a reflective practitioner.
Teaching methods include a mixture of large and small lectures, seminars and workshops, one-to-one and group tutorials.
Students will have personal development sessions with academic staff to help with your studies and developing your employability skills.
Assessment methods include essays, scientific reports, presentations, multimedia web pages, expert witness reports, writing formulations, case studies, exams, portfolios, online quizzes, academic posters, patchwork text, an exhibition, an academic poster conference, post occupancy evaluation and designing behaviour change interventions.
This course shares a common first year with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and BSc (Hons) Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.
Learn about the core theories and concepts of developmental, social and cognitive psychology.
Gain an understanding of what developmental, social and cognitive psychology are and how they can explain human behaviour.
Consider the different approaches to studying developmental, social and cognitive psychology.
Explore the historical origins of these key areas of psychology.
Develop knowledge of the work of prominent psychologists in influencing today’s developmental, social and cognitive psychology research.
Begin to apply theoretical knowledge of these areas to explain everyday human behaviours.
Gain an understanding of core theories and concepts in the core areas of biological psychology and individual differences.
Explore our ancestral past, consider how behaviour has been affected by natural and sexual selection, giving rise to group norms as well as individual differences.
Students will demonstrate the ability to apply theoretical knowledge gained from these areas to explain everyday human behaviours.
Learn the fundamental skills and knowledge necessary for psychological investigation, evaluation, and communication alongside.
Demonstrate an understanding of, and aptitude for, quantitative research methods and effectively communicate psychological research.
Explore a variety of quantitative and qualitative research paradigms, developing an understanding of how psychologists’ views of the social world shape their research.
Develop a working knowledge of the key methods psychologists use to create and answer questions about human activity, from initial areas of interest, through iterative design cycles, to select the most appropriate research method(s), always working within a robust legal, ethical and professional framework.
A wide variety of approaches and data collection tools are explored from quantitative, qualitative and mixed method paradigms, experiencing knowledge creation from the perspective of both a research designer and a research participant.
Learn some of the key skills and qualities that characterise the counselling relationship and counselling process linked to psychological theory underpinning counselling practice.
Gain an understanding of counselling as a distinct professional occupation as well as how counselling skills can be used in many professions and helping roles.
Students undertaking this module can gain an externally validated level 2 award in counselling concepts and achieve the module credits if they meet all the requirements of the award.
Learn about forensic and criminal psychology and the relevant key theoretical concepts.
Develop an understanding of forensic and criminal psychology in the context of, and with reference to, other forensic sciences, and how psychology can be applied to the study of criminal behaviour.
Learn about the development of forensic psychology as a discipline with regards to how crime, offender treatment, and the legal system have been conceptualised and approached.
Explore a range of psychological theories of criminal behaviour, including those from an evolutionary perspective, examining different types of crime, including but not limited to, juvenile offending and gangs, violent and sexual offending, and fire-setting crimes.
Engage with experts in practice who work within the Criminal Justice System and examine real-life crimes and apply psychological theories to understanding these crimes and the impact on the victims.
You will be introduced to the practice of clinical psychology.
Explore the historical, theoretical and practical aspects of clinical psychology.
Understand what we mean by ‘mental health’.
Examine common mental health disorders.
Gain knowledge of clinical models of mental health.
Learn about the varied roles in clinical psychology and allied professions.
Develop and practice your skills in areas of clinical assessments and methods.
Apply reflection techniques to your own career planning and transferable skills.
Develop a critical understanding of key theories, concepts, and empirical research in the areas of social psychology, individual differences, and qualitative research methods.
Gain insights into thoughts, feelings and behaviour of individuals within social contexts through the use and application of qualitative methods.
Gain the knowledge and skills you need to evaluate and apply psychological concepts grounded in social psychology and individual differences.
Deepen your understanding of developmental and cognitive psychology and enhance your skills in quantitative research methods.
Examine the cognitive processes, including memory, attention, and perception, that underpin our daily interactions and allow us to comprehend and engage with the world around us.
Explore how environmental and cultural factors shape developmental trajectories from infancy to old age.
Consider the diverse range of human experiences, including those of individuals who are neurodiverse, have acquired brain injuries, or possess exceptional abilities.
Develop advanced skills in quantitative research methods and data analysis, applying your new knowledge to gain deeper insights into human behaviour.
Gain a robust understanding of various psychological conditions within the spectrum of mental health, wellness, and psychopathology.
Examine and discuss the core underpinnings of mental health and psychopathology.
Gain an understanding of the key indicators of mental health and what it means to be psychologically healthy and psychologically unwell.
Discuss a range of conditions like developmental disorders, mood, anxiety, personality, psychosis, trauma, and stress related conditions would be discussed.
Consider the links between physical mental health with a focus on gut and the physical/psychological impacts of trauma on the body.
Evolutionary process fundamentally underpin the origins of all the behaviour we express.
Explore core evolutionary theory and combine this with knowledge of the biological workings of neurons and hormones to explain various contemporary human behaviours.
Gain an in-depth knowledge of biological processes in psychology, explain the evolutionary origins of behaviour, integrate both and apply them to understand contemporary behaviours.
Learn about the core skills necessary for a career in clinical psychology and allied professions such as clinical assessment, formulation, reflexivity and evidence-based practice in an interactive learning and teaching environment.
Learn about diagnostic approaches to mental health and illness, including the medical model.
Consider the clinical risks involved in these professions and some of the sensitive and triggering circumstances you may be exposed to.
Learn the fundamentals of the underpinning ethical frameworks essential in these professions, and the importance of personal development and reflexivity.
Explore various approaches to mental health in practice in-depth.
Examine major theoretical frameworks, research findings, and practical applications in the field of clinical psychology.
Drawing upon historical and contemporary perspectives, to critically analyse different approaches and their effectiveness in understanding and addressing mental health issues.
Understand and apply these approaches to effectively contextualise mental health issues, identify the most suitable contemporary treatment or management options to support individuals with mental health challenges, and promoting mental wellbeing.
Build on your knowledge and skills in research methods.
Develop the skills, tools and ideas you need to successfully complete your empirical project.
Complete self-audits of your interests and transferable skills.
Plan and write your research questions and project proposals.
Gain knowledge of ethical principles and practices.
Develop your confidence in presenting and communicating psychological theories and research to a range of audiences.
Deepen your understanding of models of reflexivity and how you can apply them.
Critically and reflexively consider your career options and take part in interactive sessions to make your career commitments.
Build your skills in developing effective professional networks and relationships.
On this module students will individually plan and execute an original piece of empirical research.
This will include reading, understanding and critically appraising relevant psychological literature, operationalising a research question by selecting and implementing appropriate research methodologies and statistical techniques to answer the research question.
Students will consider and highlight how to address relevant ethical issues associated with their research topic and disseminate their individual research findings via presentation at a classroom based undergraduate conference.
Deepen your knowledge, understanding, and practice of key conceptual, ethical, legal, and regulatory issues in clinical psychology.
Learn about and debate on current conceptual issues in clinical psychology, like cultural competence, prescription privileges, artificial intelligence in assessments and associated issues, professional codes of conduct in clinical research and practice, boundaries in practice and ethical dilemmas.
Learn about the regulatory framework in which clinical psychologists practice, the legal obligations they must comply with, such as ethical issues concerning consent, confidentiality, data protection, and safeguarding, as well as challenges clinicians encounter when working with people with mental health problems, such as protecting an individual’s liberty and protecting individuals from harm.
Explore the evolving landscape of mental health services with a focus on inclusive practice and co-production of clinical care.
Critically examine the role of diversity, equity, and inclusion in mental health services.
Learn effective ways of actively engaging with diverse patient populations using collaborative methods.
Develop skills in using co-production tools.
Practice skills in co-production by working with experts by experience.
Analyse the role of power dynamics and privilege in mental health service provision.
Identify strategies for promoting inclusivity and equity.
Apply knowledge of inclusive practice to real-world scenarios
Please note, not all optional modules may be available every year.
Consider a range of topics within health psychology, from mental health to chronic conditions, and apply theories and research to these topics effectively.
Challenge traditional biomedical perspectives by delving into the biopsychosocial and community health psychology approaches, gaining a deeper understanding of health and illness.
This module provides the opportunity to work with an organisation on a psychology related placement where you can apply the knowledge and skills developed during your degree to real-world problems.
Placement opportunities vary but past placement have included working:
There may be the opportunity to develop your own placement.
Consider a range of perspectives, including evolutionary, biological, and socio-cultural, to explain the origins and practices in relationship behaviours.
Relationship formation, maintenance, and dissolution are so central to human behaviour that many people dedicate a significant amount of their lifetime and resources towards obtaining and maintaining relationships.
These behaviours often form a cornerstone of cultural practices that transcends temporal and national borders.
Use evolutionary, biological, and socio-cultural theory to explain the origins and practices of relationship behaviours.
Learn to apply core theory to explain contemporary sexual and romantic practices.
Learn a range of intermediate to advanced statistical and research skills and techniques across correlational and experimental designs using industry standard software.
Build on your existing knowledge, revise and consolidate core understanding in the field to enable you to deploy more advanced designs and analyses in your final year work, in post-graduate study and employment.
Become familiar with meta-science, handling complex data sets, open-science and open-data practices, and analyse and report findings to a professional standard.
Learn about the field of cyberpsychology, the psychology of how humans interact with technology and online environments.
Explore how the online world impacts human behavior, and how humans are adapting to a world with increasing amounts of technology: becoming digital humans in the process.
Critically examine the rise of artificial technology, and its impact on human behaviours,  gaining an in-depth understanding of how humans interact with technology, in all its forms, and in online environments.
This module covers predominantly cognitive psychology, individual differences, and social psychology, with some elements of biological and developmental psychology.
Investigate the complex issue of addictive behaviours from a range of perspectives.
Examine theories surrounding the causes and maintenance of addictive behaviours including tobacco and alcohol addiction, illegal drug use and non-substance addictions such as gambling.
Investigate the role of biology, cognition, learning theories and the social world in underpinning addictive behaviours and how they can pose a challenge to treatment and recovery.
Consider the interface between the psychology of addiction and the wider legal and political context of these issues and consider the perspective of the lived experience.
Learn about the psychology of belief, from religious and political, to the paranormal.
Understand and explain why humans have a predisposition to believe in a range of topics falling under four core areas, from each other to little green men, within the context of empirical scientific evidence.
Apply your knowledge and skills from core areas of psychology to understand the belief in spirituality, political preference, ghosts, conspiracies, and many more.
Examine how psychological concepts, principles and theories can be applied to understand and alleviate problems associated with health and health-related behaviours.
Cover topics which include personality, health and illness, sociocultural aspects of health and illness, and stress and health.
Focus on psychological interventions aimed at changing health-related behaviours.
Apply psychology to understanding offenders and a number of common forms of serious and violent offending encountered in forensic settings.
Draw on approaches from across the discipline of psychology, applying psychological theory and research to aspects of serious and violent offending, for example gang violence and crime, intimate partner violence and other forms of domestic violence, sexual violence, murder, terrorism, financial and corporate crime, cybercrime.
Study cyberpsychology, the psychology of how humans interact with technology and online environments.
Look at the online world and its impact on human behaviour.
Explore how humans have adapted to a world with increasing amounts of technology: becoming digital humans in the process.
Study the rise of artificial technology, and its impact on human behaviours.
Consider how we interact with virtual environments, explore virtual identity, online vs.
offline behaviours, and how we approach privacy and self-disclosure in an increasingly digital world.
Further develop your research design and data analysis skills, building on the foundations provided at Years 1 and 2.
Cover advanced quantitative research design and acquire a number of advanced data analysis techniques.
Examine male psychology supported by the Male Psychology Section of the British Psychological Society.
Find out about key psychological issues that affect men and boys, such as physical and mental health issues, grief, suicide, trauma, male stereotypes and archetypes, intimate partner violence, sexual assault and fatherhood.
Learn about the impact of acknowledging and understanding sex differences for full understanding of the human condition, and how this may enable us to tailor support and interventions to men facing issues.
Critically consider modern conceptualisations of masculinity such as toxic masculinity and positive masculinity.
Enhance your employability by completing a placement with a professional organisation, possibly, but not necessarily, related to psychology.
Past placements have included conducting research and analysing data for NHS trusts and private clinical organisations or working as psychology teaching and research assistants.
Explore the dark side of the human mind by engaging in the psychological study of dark personality.
Learn about the ‘Dark Tetrad’ traits: narcissism, Machiavellianism, psychopathy and sadism.
Consider why men with dark personality are often attractive to women.
Learn about dark personality disorders, focusing on psychopathy.
Discuss ethical issues raised by psychopathy, and consider questions such as: Are psychopaths born or made?
How are the brains of psychopaths different, and how does this affect how they think and feel?
Why do some psychopaths commit violent crimes?
Are psychopaths natural leaders?
Why are psychopaths so prevalent in popular culture?
Study real world issues and problems relating to memory, for example, recovered and false memories, post-traumatic stress disorder and memory, memory closure and expressive writing, childhood amnesia, pregnancy and memory, life stories and post-traumatic growth, mindfulness and memory, role of memory making in mental health after perinatal loss, simulation of future experiences and anxiety.
Cyberpsychology is the field in psychology which focuses on how emerging technology impacts on human behaviour.
This module will look at how technology is incorporated into our daily lives and how we are able to make connections to the offline world, along with the impact of those connections and their influence on the self, which is key to understanding the digital prism we now live in.
This module will take a flipped classroom approach to learning about current topics in which the psychology of memory is investigated in terms of its real-world applications.
Using problem-based learning you will work in groups to learn about a variety of topics which may include issues such as recovered and false memory, memory and PTSD, childhood amnesia, mindfulness and memory for future events.
Real world issues and problems relating to memory will be considered in relation to topics drawn from the research interests of members of staff, which means that the topics may change from year to year.
This module highlights the important function humour and laughter have considering the psychological approach of this often-multidisciplinary area of study.
Utilising an integrated approach to understanding the psychology of humour we will consider many aspects of psychology, such as evolutionary, biological, social, personality, psychometrics, and also the application.
The University boasts a collection of more than 430,000 books with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
Resources for Counselling and Psychology include:
You’ll find a range of specialist laboratories and excellent library resources here.
Graduating from any of our psychology programmes will provide you with a varied set of skills and attributes, valued by employers.
Our graduates aspire to undertake doctoral post-graduate study and employment in a range of professions allied to Psychology and the Social Sciences.
Clinical Psychologists are usually employed in hospitals, health centres and community health care teams.
However, many of our graduates go on to follow non-psychology career routes in social work, public services, HR and teaching due to the highly transferable skills you will gain.
Our clinical programme specifically focuses on developing skills valuable to obtaining assistant psychology positions or evidencing competencies for the clinical psychology doctorate.
Clinical Psychologists can be employed in hospitals, health centres, community mental health teams, and in social services.
Graduates have had successful careers in public and private-sector organisations with roles including Therapists for autistic children, Project Officers in Social Services, Assistant Psychologists, Education Welfare Officers, personal fitness coaches, Recruitment Officers and more.
As of October 2023, Prospects suggests that graduates that go on to become trainee clinical psychologists start at £35,392 (Band 6) of the NHS AfC (Agenda for Change pay scale) and after qualification start at £43,742 (Band 7).
Experienced psychologists can earn between £50,952 and £57,349 (NHS bands 8a and 8b).
Page last updated:  04 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/forensic-psychology:
Learn how criminal behaviour and the legal system have been conceptualised and approached.
Examine violent offending such as murder, terrorism, stalking, cyber and sexual crime.
Graduate and work with prisoners, offenders, victims of crime ​and provide forensic expertise to suspects, witnesses and victims within the Criminal Justice System.
This course examines the five core areas of Psychology as specified by the British Psychological Society (BPS) in a unique and integrated way to allow for learning to be more applicable and relatable to your future career.
You will explore how Psychology is applied to understanding offenders and forms of serious and violent offending, such as those a Forensic Psychologist might encounter in the field.
You will also be introduced and guided through the process of using and interpreting psychometric tests, administering and interpreting risk assessments, conducting case formulations, critically evaluating police interviews, writing parole reports, presenting evidence in court as an expert witness, as well as designing and conducting empirical research.
This course shares a common first year with BSc (Hons) Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.
Investigate how psychology is used in detecting suspects and collecting evidence for consideration during the criminal trial.
Examine sources of bias in the collection and presentation of forensic evidence and how to recognise and decrease the risk of making mistakes.
Explore the relevance and applicability of psychology in the various stages of the criminal trial, focusing particularly on jury decision-making.
Consider different forensic scenarios and case studies to facilitate the application of knowledge and understanding of theories and research from social, cognitive, biological, and developmental psychology, and individual differences.
Investigate how psychology is used when interviewing suspects, victims and eyewitnesses during the investigation process.
Explore a range of factors affecting the credibility of evidence including eyewitness testimony, expert testimony and confessions.
Examine the fallibility of eyewitness memory, and how to recognise and decrease the risk of mistakes when navigating matters concerning attention and memory.
Consider a number of different forensic scenarios and case studies to facilitate the application of knowledge and understanding of theories and research from social, cognitive, biological, and developmental psychology, and individual differences.
Apply psychological theory in order to understand why offenders commit a range of serious and violent crimes, such as those a forensic psychologist might encounter in the field.
Explore how such theory, with the support of empirical research, can be used to ensure that appropriate interventions are recommended with the aim of reducing recidivism risk.
Consider a number of different forensic scenarios and case studies which will facilitate the application of knowledge and understanding of theories and research from social, cognitive, biological, and developmental psychology, and individual differences.
Learn about the career pathway of the Forensic Psychologist and develop key skills necessary to undertake this role.
Consider the application of essential key skills as well as the importance of adhering to the codes of conduct required when working with forensic populations.
Develop an understanding of the differences and diversity encountered when working ethically and humanely within a forensic setting.
Solidify and consolidate your progress in your degree by enhancing your understanding of the history of psychology, which is essential for understanding its current state and future direction.
Engage with classic studies in psychology that have been transformative and, often, controversial.
Gain a critical understanding of their influence on the field today by critiquing and synthesizing their impact through both their innovations and limitations.
Learn about the discipline of Environmental Psychology, an applied sub-discipline of Psychology which bridges with related disciplines such as architecture, planning, and geography.
Gain critical appraisal skills by:
Develop your questioning and decision-making skills, presentation of logical and coherent arguments, and appreciation of complexity and context for understanding issues.
Built and natural environments directly influence the experience and behaviour of users.
Focus on a real-world project where you identify, evaluate, and contextualise the user experience of a selected setting using theories and concepts covered in the module.
Engage in a comprehensive review of academic literature related to a topic in psychology agreed with module staff.
Gain critical evaluation skills by exploring the current understanding of the topic from multiple psychological perspectives and identify themes within the literature.
Develop and apply research knowledge, skills, and capabilities by gaining valuable experience as a research assistant for an academic member of staff on a research project.
Explore the holistic impacts of prematurity, Down Syndrome, Williams Syndrome and stroke.
Critically consider resilience factors, systemic issues and challenges in these populations.
Apply a framework to consider issues such as nature vs nurture, cultural influences, heterogeneity and development across the life-span.
Critically consider how professionals can support these populations to highlight their strengths, be more inclusive and prevent discriminatory practices.
Consider the impacts of neonatal admissions for babies, their families and across the lifespan.
Gain knowledge of the cognitive, sensory, social and environmental impacts of a neonatal stay.
Consider mental health issues for families on the neonatal unit.
Explore methods and practices to effectively include families as partners in their babies’ care.
Learn about the long-term impacts of prematurity.
Evaluate the importance of advocacy and awareness in amplifying patient voices.
Develop an understanding of how we can support families on and beyond the neonatal unit.
Learn about psychological issues affecting men and boys either exclusively, disproportionately, or in different ways to women and girls in the emerging area of Male Psychology.
Consider the role of biological psychology and evolutionary psychology in the development of sex-specific and sex-differentiated behaviours, and how these factors interact with proximate areas of core psychology.
Consider cognitive differences and effects, how behaviours differ over the lifespan, how social situations impact on sex-specific or sex-differentiated behaviours and individual differences within these.
Learn about the impact of acknowledging and understanding sex differences for a full understanding of the human condition, use this knowledge to design appropriate, evidence informed interventions or support.
This module is supported by external experts in the area of male psychology, ensuring you are engaging with issues and information at the cutting edge of the discipline.
Learn about the psychological underpinnings of how people interact with video games.
Explore what makes video games captivating; the impact of video games on the brain; and the application of psychological principles towards video game design.
Experience a blend of lectures and student-led group presentations, providing you with a state-of-the-art understanding of the psychology of digital entertainment.
Focus on a range of psychological issues in various aspects of female reproductive health.
Explore theories and research explaining female reproductive issues.
Choose three specific topics within reproductive health, for example, fertility; pregnancy; birth-trauma; baby loss; sexual health and dysfunction; reproductive rights; intimate partner violence; reproductive health disparities; pre-natal and post-natal mental health; hysterectomy; cancers of female reproductive organs; transgender transition; menopause.
Develop ideas and working models through problem-based learning (PBL) activities.
Practice your presentation skills in a mutually supportive and interactive environment.
Collaboratively create work to depict the psychological journey through female reproductive health.
Learn about the cognitive neuroscience of growing old.
Consider and evaluate claims about ageing, for example, whether dementia is an inevitable part of aging.
Consider what the current, cutting-edge research tells us about protecting brain health and cover fascinating topics such as blue zones.
Learn about cutting edge techniques such as EEG and eye-tracking and what these techniques can tell us about the ageing brain.
Explore the psychological, social, and physiological impact of the mutually beneficial and unique bond between humans and animals, and how this may influence wellbeing.
Consider the ethical considerations of human-animal interactions.
Gain insights into the multifaceted relationship between humans and animals with a focus on wellbeing.
Focus on the scope of Occupational Psychology and its application to work, employees and organisations.
Gain analytical, problem-solving and decision-making skills through an investigation of contemporary issues facing employees and organisations, and methods for assessment and evaluation.
Topics covered in the module align with the British Psychology Society’s Division of Occupational Psychology cores areas.
Positive psychology encompasses the study of positive experiences, positive character strengths, positive relationships, and the institutions and practices that facilitate their development.
In this module the classification of these virtues is explored.
Positive relationships include the factors that enhance meaning and well-being among couples, family, friends, coworkers, and the community.
This module reviews the history of positive psychology and the contributions this new field has made to several traditional research areas in psychology.
Consideration will be given to conflicting viewpoints and their respective empirical support, including the benefits of balancing positive with negative emotions, the measurement and development of happiness, and the implications of deliberately attempting to increase it.
Work collaboratively and with autonomy within workshop-based classes to explore contemporary issues falling within domains of clinical, health and wellbeing, mental health, neurodiversity and forensic psychology approaches.
Draw on existing academic, theoretical and experiential knowledge for chosen topics from within the module.
Create applicable real-world artefact approaches and concepts that address issues for identified populations.
with an underlying narrative thread offering a clear association between them.
Have the opportunity to learn from specialists across psychological domains of how their interests and research outcomes have been applicably transposed within real-world contexts.
The topics and methods involved within real-world research will enable consideration in how to approach disseminating information on complex psychological issues accessibly to the general population using textual and artefact approaches and effectively collaborating with peers and external partnerships for knowledge exchange
Learn the historical background, theoretical frameworks and applied ethical considerations that enable an understanding of why and how bio-physiological measurements are employed.
Develop applied research methods skills using available physiological measurement equipment and related software.
under the guidance of staff, develop practical skills in using biopsychological measurement systems, tools, and equipment.
Read more about Forensic Psychology
What careers can a degree in psychology lead to?
Find out which psychology course is right for you
Psychology is one of the best degrees for transferrable skills that a student can do, as it is about behaviour and can be applied to a range of areas.
Graduates may go on to study forensic psychology at postgraduate level in order to become a Chartered Forensic Psychologist.
Graduates can also apply their skills in workplaces such as prisons, rehabilitation units, and secure hospitals working with criminals.
Forensic Psychologists are usually employed in fields such as criminal justice and rehabilitation, police, probation, prison service, legal sector, and other Psychology careers such as clinical psychology, educational psychology and as mental health practitioners.
Many graduates also follow a non-psychology career route due to developing highly transferable skills.
These occupations include careers advisor, counsellor, psychotherapist, human resources, marketing, schoolteacher, play therapist, art therapist, dance therapist, social worker, policy officer, neuroscientist, mediator and border force officer.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/undergraduate-psychology:
Learn a comprehensive and integrated approach to examining the brain and human behaviour.
Study a wide range of phenomena.
Develop transferable skills you can use in any context.
As well as examining the five core areas of psychology as specified by the British Psychological Society (BPS), our content is also underpinned by the unifying meta theory of evolution.
This is important to help you understand human thoughts and behaviours.
This approach allows learning that is applicable and relatable to matters that concern you and your future career.
Pursue your interests in your final year by choosing modules such as mental health and illness, addiction and clinical neuropsychology.
This course shares a common first year with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.
Engage in a flexible module focused on critical understanding of contemporary topics, “big questions” and/or emerging applications in Psychology.
Topics may vary year-on-year, reflecting the changing nature of Psychology.
Gain critical evaluation skills by exploring historical underpinnings and current evidence, critiquing relevant theories, synthesising relevant evidence, and reflecting on relevance for United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Develop independence, decision making, time management skills, and awareness/knowledge of sustainability.
There are many topics within psychology that are considered controversial and taboo; highly sensitive subjects that are whispered about, avoided, misunderstood, or sometimes carry stigma.
While these topics are challenging to discuss, they are an important part of the human experience and form a crucial part of psychological discourse.
Misunderstanding around these sensitive subjects can hamper research, public awareness, and acceptance into mainstream understanding.
Historically many of these subjects were avoided within the academic community, meaning that these are now cutting-edge subjects with a large degree of interest.
Better understanding of these topics forms a key part of understanding the human experience.
Examine and discuss the complexities of human diversity across cultures, and how cultural contexts shape psychological processes and behaviours with a focus on wellbeing.
Explore key concepts such as cultural norms, values, and world views.
Critically analyse cultural variations and contexts in approaching, understanding.
Investigate psychological constructs of mental wellbeing from multiple cultural viewpoints.
Analyse the similarities and differences in prevalence, presentation, treatment, and cultural interpretations of mental health disorders in a variety of cultural contexts.
Critically evaluate research evidence and case studies from diverse cultural contexts, fostering a deeper appreciation of the cultural nuances and societal influences on mental health and illness.
Apply evolutionary psychology to a range of controversial and contemporary issues affecting society, groups, and humans generally.
Push evolutionary theory to its limits through applying it to various contemporary issues.
Understand the different yet complementary perspective this brings to contemporary issues, allowing you to take a fully integrated view on these issues.
Build evidence-based solutions to these issues using this enhanced understanding.
Become adept at critiquing literature, applying theory to complex issues, and hypothesising interventions and solutions.
Graduates from this course can move into a broad range of careers spanning management, personnel, social work, public services, counselling and advertising, or alternatively, pursue postgraduate qualifications in specific fields of psychological practice such as clinical or forensic psychology.
As well as direct psychology careers graduates can also move into adjacent positions where their transferrable skills are valued.
Many graduates work in fields such as management, personnel, social work, public services counselling, marketing, advertising, teaching, policy officers and advertising.
Careers in psychology can include clinical, forensic and educational psychology, mental health practitioners, further education teachers, and occupational therapists and psychologists.
Many graduates also pursue postgraduate qualifications in specific fields of psychological practice such as clinical or forensic psychologist.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/undergraduate-psychology-counselling:
This course allows you to consider 'big issues' in contemporary psychology as well as studying pioneering approaches and major thinkers.
The specialist counselling modules allow you an added perspective and teaches you how to apply basic skills from the counselling room in real-world settings.
Choose modules in your second and final year that suit your particular interests, including mental health and illness, addiction and clinical neuropsychology.
This course shares a common first year with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology and BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.
Develop a solid grounding in a range of counselling theories.
Focusing on a range of key therapeutic models, explore the key figures and influential factors in the development of the field, and evaluate the effectiveness of these models in explaining the development of human distress.
Explore a range of contexts in which counselling skills are used, including understanding the difference between counselling and other helping-based occupations which use counselling skills.
Develop your counselling skills through enhancing your understanding of relevant underpinning theories and practice in facilitated learning and teaching settings.
Evaluate your own personal and professional development through reflection of your practice and skills through the development of a personal development and action plan to enhance your employability and graduate prospects.
Critically examine the debates surrounding the provision of counselling in the twenty-first century.
Engage with the socio-politics that will deepen your understanding of the ways external forces can impact on the internal running of services and foreground issues such as control and power, equality and anti-discriminatory practice.
Hear from specialist speakers working in the field giving you insights into ‘real world’ issues in the field.
Focus on one particular client group in-depth, students to develop a theoretical awareness of how difficulties develop, the context of provision and what counselling might offer.
Understand the influence of media on public attitudes to specific issues in counselling will also be considered and how counselling fits into modern mental health provision.
Consider how the knowledge and skills acquired from your counselling studies across the programme can be applied to a specific, real-world setting directly and indirectly.
Interview a professional about their work in that role, drawing from literature to create a media piece such as a blog or vlog to critically highlighting the applications of theory or skills in contemporary counselling practice.
Explore how the online world impacts human behaviour, and how humans are adapting to a world with increasing amounts of technology: becoming digital humans in the process.
According to Prospects , typical starting salaries for Counselling psychologists in the NHS will typically be £32,306 to £39,027, in line with band 6 of the Agenda for Change (AfC) pay rates .
Once qualified, salaries can increase to band 7, ranging from £40,057 to £45,839.
Salaries for senior psychologist roles can rise to between £47,126 and £53,219 (band 8a).
With further experience, a principal or consultant psychologist can earn salaries of £65,664 to £90,387 (Bands 8c to 8d).
Graduates from this course have gone onto further training and study in areas such as Occupational Therapy, Teacher Training, Social Work and Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT).
Counselling psychology graduates can also be employed in hospitals, health care centres, prisons and community services.
The role involves using psychological theory and therapeutic techniques to help clients with a range of mental health conditions and life issues such as bereavement, domestic violence, abuse, depression and psychosis.
Due to the transferable skills learned, graduates from this course can move into a broad range of careers spanning management, HR, social work, public services, counselling and advertising, or alternatively, pursue postgraduate qualifications in specific fields of psychological practice such as clinical or forensic psychology.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/undergraduate-biochemistry:
Solve some of the most interesting and important health problems in the world today.
Contribute to healthcare at both ends of the spectrum, from diagnosis and disease profiling to drug discovery and development.
Enhance your employability and gain real-world experience with an optional placement.
While biomedical scientists work on diagnosis and disease profiling and biopharmaceutical scientists work on drug discovery and development, biochemistry sits directly in between these disciplines and contributes to healthcare in both areas.
You will examine the origin of life, the study of disease and the complex chemistry and developmental biology of whole organisms.
Study areas including biological chemistry, cell biology, clinical chemistry and molecular biology.
Our teaching methods address different learning styles and provide a diverse learning experience.
The course integrates traditional lecture and laboratory-based learning with active, experiential and enquiry-based learning.
You will be taught via laboratory practical work, tutorials, lectures, seminars, group work and e-learning.
We also encourage you to develop independent study skills.
This course shares a common first year with BSc (Hons) Biopharmaceutical Science and BSc (Hons) Medicinal Chemistry, which allows you to easily change course at the end of the first year should one of these routes appeal to you.
You’ll look at the differences between bacteria, viruses, and human cells  and how scientists use these differences to make new medicines.
You’ll also get hands-on experience using key lab techniques and safely working with cells.
How do infections spread and how does your body fight them?
In this module, you’ll learn how infectious diseases are transmitted and explore the biological and biochemical processes behind the body’s defence against infections.
You’ll also gain practical skills in identifying microorganisms and testing their resistance to antibiotics, using both traditional and advanced microbiological methods.
This module will explore key chemical signalling pathways in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, with a focus on how these pathways connect to metabolism and energy use in biological systems.
Ever wondered how cells communicate and how energy flows through living systems?
You’ll also get hands-on experience in the lab, expanding your skills in molecular and cellular biology techniques.
You’ll even work with mammalian cells, testing how they respond to different physical and chemical stimuli.
This advanced module delves into the biochemical mechanisms behind genetic and acquired diseases.
Interested in how biochemical processes contribute to disease and how they can lead to new treatments?
You’ll explore how changes in biochemical pathways drive disease development and progression.
The module also covers how this understanding can be used to create new therapeutic strategies and treatments.
A Levels must include Chemistry at grade C.
Biochemists are employed in an increasingly wide range of roles in biological, environmental and clinical fields, with employment opportunities stretching from healthcare through forensic science to the food and pharmaceutical industries.
Companies that have employed our graduates include pharmaceutical multinationals such as GSK, FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies, Pfizer and AstraZeneca.
To enhance this mix, we encourage you to apply to undertake a one-year placement between your second and final year.
Placements provide an invaluable opportunity to put your learning into practice and understand the context for your new knowledge.
As part of the course you will also make several industry visits.
You’ll be taught by passionate academic staff with a broad range of relevant research interests including:
This course gives you the opportunity to develop skills which you can use in a range of employment situations including:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/undergraduate-cosmetic-science:
This course introduces relevant aspects of chemistry, physiology and dermatology as well as the regulatory marketing and business framework for cosmetics.
You’ll also be introduced to the principles of formulation, with an emphasis on those related to cosmetics.
During the second year, you will undertake a more in-depth exploration of formulation, dermatology and professional practice in the cosmetic industry.
This will include the importance of colour in these formulations and the differences between industrial and lab scale manufacture.
The final year culminates in a science-led project that can be tailored to your interests.
Through the project you will demonstrate your capacity to address a particular issue in a rigorous, research-enabled way.
The project can be linked to your placement or other work experience, making it a useful way of catching the attention of potential employers.
In year one you will become familiar with the range of raw materials, cosmetic formulations and formulation techniques in the cosmetics field.
This will then feed into your year two modules where your knowledge and formulation skills will build up to the formulation and quality control of specific cosmetic products.
In your final year you will study modules which involve the design of more challenging and sophisticated formulations, awareness of formulation protocols and the use of statistics in formulation design.
During the course you will also become aware of the diverse global legislative and regulatory framework surrounding cosmetics and perfumes, and acquire fundamental knowledge of the physiology of the skin, eye, nail, oral cavity and hair, alongside the role of the endocrine system.
Develop your understanding of fundamental functional and aromatic chemistry.
Learn how reactions and the energy changes involved drive chemical and biological processes.
Discover how the physicochemical properties of molecules affect their function and stability in formulations.
Explore the fundamental biological processes in living organisms.
Develop key knowledge and understanding of how DNA and RNA molecules are made and how they function.
Learn how the body produces and uses energy and how these biological functions are regulated by a network of enzymes and proteins.
Gain insight into why the regulation of physiological processes are important to the cosmetic industry.
Examine the purpose and fundamental principles of cosmetic formulations.
Gain an introduction to solid, semisolid, and liquid cosmetic formulations to enable you to make informed decisions on the selection of the type of formulation, considering the desired cosmetic outcome and site of applications.
Learn about the different types of raw materials, including their physicochemical properties, and discuss their use in defined cosmetic formulations.
Discuss the essential regulatory considerations which highlight the processes and protocols undertaken in the highly regulated cosmetic industry.
Gain vital knowledge of regulatory frameworks to make yourself aware of the arena you will end up working in and how this differs from that of traditional pharmaceutical products.
Explore the working of the cosmetics industry and how it’s organised and regulated.
Explore the formulation principles of cosmetic products via the application of standard industrial protocols and documentation procedures, such as the Cosmetic Product Safety Protocol.
Learn the formulation principles and become able to formulate all different types of cosmetics, including the appropriate use of colouring agents in decorative and hair products, and the process of blending during the formulation of perfumes.
Gain knowledge of the manufacturing principles of cosmetic products.
Contextualise the illustration of GLP and GMP and the relation to safe and effective cosmetics through manufacturing laboratory sessions and subsequent analysis of the properties of the various products.
Explore the importance and processes of quality control and develop your statistical and numerical skills further.
Examine the several roles of a cosmetic scientist with current practices ranging from the aesthetic to the industrial field.
Examine the scientific theory and application guidelines or non-surgical aesthetic treatments, skin abrasion techniques, and skin depilation techniques.
Build on your existing knowledge of physics, formulation, and physiology acquired from previous modules.
Familiarise yourself with the structure and functions of healthy skin.
Learn the basics of dermatology alongside a comprehensive explanation of the role of genetics, endocrine system, and of the environment on skin manifestations.
Explore dermatology of all body areas including nails, scalp, and skin surrounding the eyes.
Examine skin types and ageing modes in relation to ethnic differences.
Complete an optional 40-week placement where you’ll have the opportunity for personal and professional development through direct workplace experience related to the course.
Develop an awareness of the relevance of your knowledge and the application of appropriate techniques while gaining an appreciation of the structure and regulation within the cosmetics industry.
Gain an introduction to the design and stabilisation of advanced cosmetic formulations.
Revisit surfactant chemistry with an added focus on the formation of stable emulsions, microemulsions, and liquid crystals.
Learn how to formulate colloidal systems ranging from cerasomes and trasfersomes to nanogels.
Explore the formulation of ‘multi-action’ cosmetic products such as BB, CC, DD, and even EE creams in connection with knowledge gained from previous modules.
Examine the theory of sun protection factor (SPF) containing formulations and gain competence in preparing and testing these formulations.
Explore the theory of qualitative and quantitative research methods and learn how to apply these to the formulation, manufacture, quality control, and claim substantiation of cosmetic products.
Gain an understanding of experimentation strategy at the claim and safety substantiation stage of a product’s development, taking the ban in animal testing into consideration.
Examine the flaws of the animal testing approach and the superiority of alternative testing techniques.
Explore business aspects of the cosmetic industry, as well as themes covered in previous modules around legislation.
Familiarise yourself with product cost calculations and how to evaluate the financial feasibility of the product.
Enhance your skills via product development, project planning, and management exercises.
Learn the importance of estimating the overall product cost from development to market, as well as the need for effective time management and the ability to multitask while working in the cosmetic industry.
Apply the knowledge and skills you required in previous stages of the course to the design and successful completion of a research project.
Gain an appreciation of the nature of, and the techniques required in, the pursuit of robust research.
Seek out and evaluate relevant information and apply your learning of research methodology, statistics, and ethics from earlier in the course.
Focus on a research topic aligned to the research interests of members of staff which will afford you the experience of working at the forefront of a scientific discipline.
Our Cosmetic Science labs are equipped with all the necessary equipment for the formulation of solid (e.g.
eye shadow), semisolid (e.g.
creams, gels, lipsticks etc) and liquid products (e.g.
face toner, foundation); material characterisation equipment (e.g.
rheometer, DSC, tensile strength for hair, microscopy (SEM and polarised), FTIR, HPLC etc; and claim substantiation equipment for measuring skin properties (e.g.
TEWL, skin elasticity, hydration, surface texture, sebum content, Sun Protection Factor (SPF)).
Sunderland's exceptional facilities include excellent laboratories and cutting-edge equipment thanks to a multi-million pound investment.
If English is your second language we require a minimum of IELTS 6.0 (or equivalent), however if you wish to take the Healthcare Science route you will need a score of 7.0.
As a Cosmetic Science graduate, you'll have a wide range of employment options in the cosmetic, fragrance and personal care industries.
Cosmetic scientists can explore positions in business, sales and marketing.
With the sector thriving in the UK, cosmetic science is a great area to qualify in for those that want creative and diverse career options in science.
Career opportunities include research and development, perfumery, marketing and product claims and media and TV.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/undergraduate-adult-nursing-practice:
If you are applying for this course from within the UK, click apply now.
Learn from an enthusiastic team of skilled nursing professionals.
Regularly meet and work with patients and carers.
Graduate with the qualifications needed to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council as a registered adult nurse.
Are you passionate about helping people?
Do you want to develop your clinical skills and embark on a thriving career in nursing?
Our BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice degree could be for you.
Adult nursing involves delivering care to a wide range of patients with various health conditions, from minor injuries to long-term illnesses.
We've developed this adult nursing course in collaboration with regional NHS Trusts and you'll be taught by expert practitioners with first-hand experience of nursing.
Your learning will take place both on-campus in our interactive mock hospital wards and alongside our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants, and out on placement where you'll gain real-life experience.
On successful completion of the Adult Nursing degree, you'll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered adult nurse.
During your first year on the BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing degree, you'll be introduced to the requirements of becoming a registered adult nurse through studying and completing modules in professional practice and nursing practice.
This, combined with learning about physical and human science, will prepare you for your first clinical placements which will be held in local NHS Trusts.
50% of your time over the duration of this adult nursing course will be in clinical practice under the supervision of registered practitioners, in a range of clinical settings, in and out of hospital.
A key aspect of our course is patient involvement and patient centred care, and you'll have regular contact with our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) members throughout the course, who all have experience and expertise as patients or carers.
As a nurse, you'll need to demonstrate compassionate and caring approaches to patients and interprofessional working in the healthcare workforce, and this adult nursing degree provides you with opportunities to learn and work alongside other students and staff from a range of disciplines.
Develop the required skills for evidence-based practice in adult nursing.
Gain insight into engagement with learning styles, teaching methods and the assessment process.
Practise using source materials for the purpose of referencing and citation.
Present work to a variety of audiences, for example, peers, academic staff, practice colleagues, and Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants.
Learn through a systems-based approach to anatomy and physiology, psychology and microbiology using patient journeys as illustrations to enhance learning.
Explore human health and wellbeing in the context of public health and symptoms of disease.
Learn to communicate complex medical terminology to both colleagues and patients in an understandable manner.
Develop your understanding of the physiological processes, anatomical and cognitive structures of the human body.
Explore overarching themes in anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, and neurology.
Explore the core skills of adult nursing and take a holistic view of the individual focusing on health promotion, comprehensive assessment and the application of evidence-based practice.
Understand models of reflective practice to support professional development while building effective relationships with clients and others involved in the provision of healthcare.
Focus on core elements that reflect the competence, professionalism and underpinning knowledge which characterise a high-quality nursing workforce.
Gain psychomotor skills to perform essential nursing practice through interactive clinical sessions with PCPIs.
Explore the consequences of negligence in a risk-free environment through simulated experience.
Apply theoretical components to clinical practice.
Study models of reflective practice together with an overview of interprofessional working.
Gain experience and insight into lived patient experience.
Understand the importance of respecting an individual’s autonomy and right to make decisions about their own health and wellbeing.
Develop an understanding of the key issues related to healthcare practice informed by the best available evidence to support shared decision making.
Gain critical appraisal skills and debate how best available evidence can be integrated into healthcare practice and policy.
Debate the ethical issues that underpin best practice including consent and risk management.
Use a range of research methods and explore their merits and appropriate use.
Explore the nature of clinical judgment and research integration.
Gain knowledge of major pathological and physiological changes in the human body, occurring as a result of common diseases and disease processes.
Explore the manifestations, impacts and interventions of illness and disease.
Build on your knowledge of physical and human sciences and explore altered pathological and physiological change.
Use a range of teaching and learning strategies to explore the impact of these changes and define the implications for adult nursing practice.
Study co-morbidity and medico pharmaceutical treatments and modalities in order to enhance wellbeing and recovery, within the context of ethical and professional frameworks.
Develop knowledge and the application of adult nursing practice interventions to provide evidence-based, safe, and compassionate physical and psychological care.
Effectively assess, plan and implement care and demonstrate a range of adult nursing interventions.
Develop skills and knowledge to formulate a nursing plan of care and undertake observations and clinical interventions with less direct supervision.
Explore the evidence base of adult nursing practice and the range and hierarchy of evidence for particular healthcare issues.
Select a particular area in your field of adult nursing and develop your ability to make informed use of published research and other sources of evidence to apply findings to enhance your practice.
Enable your production of an independent, negotiated project that analyses an aspect of your discipline.
Develop your knowledge of self-awareness, improving healthcare and working with others.
Gain an understanding of key leadership theories and models.
Explore your application to healthcare and reflect on your personal strengths along with areas for development.
Examine the role of service improvement techniques and consider roles and responsibilities of all professionals alongside the values of team work in interprofessional care.
Explore carer and user perspectives in interprofessional care settings to illuminate personal experiences of interprofessional care.
Study ethical issues in the context of interprofessional working to gain insight into challenges faced from a variety of viewpoints.
Study the impact of information technology, healthcare informatics and issues in transcultural healthcare provision.
Develop your knowledge and application of adult nursing to practice within a range of clinical settings.
Study care provision across the human lifespan including the health and wellbeing continuum.
Learn biological, psychological and sociological theory in the context of person-centred care.
Focus on individuals with complex health needs with emphasis on the concept of co-morbidity and the implications for care this entails.
Explore pharmacological principles and concordance.
Are you considering a career as an adult nurse?
Here, we’re exploring all the great reasons why you should study adult nursing and why choosing an adult nursing degree at Sunderland will help you get there.
Learn more about adult nursing
Please note, we don't accept General Studies AS or A-Level and you must show evidence of recent academic study within the last five years at entry level.
We also require GCSE mathematics and English language or equivalent at grade C or above, or maths and English language functional skills level 2.
If you've studied for a GCSE which has a numerical grade, you'll need to achieve a grade 4 or above.
If you meet these requirements, your application will be individually assessed by the Adult Nursing Practice Admissions Tutor and, if successful, you'll be shortlisted for interview.
The selection process will include a multiple mini interview (MMI), which will assess you on your values, problem-solving, and communication skills.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) This is available to applicants who meet the course-specific APL requirements.
It may apply to applicants who wish to transfer their NMC-approved nursing studies from another university where they've achieved 120 credits at Level 4 and a minimum of 675 placement hours.
The APL entry route is also available to Nursing Associates who are aiming to become a registered nurse.
If you're interested in the APL route, please contact the nursing admissions tutors for further information by emailing nursing.admissions@sunderland.ac.uk .
Fitness to practise Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all nursing courses and are based on current NMC requirements.
Nurses are registered healthcare professionals and the ability to practise safely, effectively, and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
Please refer to the HEOPS nursing student fitness standards .
We require international applicants to meet the equivalent UK entry requirements and IELTS with a minimum of 6.5 in each element with an overall score of 7.
To be eligible for an interview, you must currently have attained an overall IELTS score of at least 7 with 6.5 in each element.
This is available to applicants who meet the course-specific APL requirements.
Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all nursing courses and are based on current NMC requirements.
Read more about funding for Armed Forces personnel.
Nursing is a rewarding and challenging career where you have a real chance to make a difference to people's lives.
Having an adult nursing degree will make you highly employable, and job opportunities are flexible both within the NHS and community settings, and in the UK and overseas.
Adult nurses are key workers and make up the largest part of the NHS workforce.
In the future, more adult nursing jobs will be based in the community rather than hospitals as more care is delivered outside of acute settings, including hospital wards, outpatient units or specialist departments, the community or nursing homes, and the prison service.
Adult nurses are a key part of the multidisciplinary teams that look after patients.
You'll be at the centre of teams that can include physiotherapists, occupational therapists, pharmacists, radiographers and healthcare assistants.
You'll also work closely with patients' families and carers.
Start your adult nursing career at the University of Sunderland and develop lifelong, transferable nursing skills in a collaborative and supportive environment.
Many career opportunities are available post-qualification and with additional qualifications, adult nurses have the potential of earning an even higher salary.
At all levels of this adult nursing course, you'll undertake unpaid clinical placements in hospitals and the community.
These occur in blocks of varying duration:
Your first placement will take place in the first term, after ten weeks of teaching.
Placements can take place at any of our partner Trusts in the North East: South Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust, The Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, North Tees and Hartlepool Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust, Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust and Harrogate, and District NHS Foundation Trust.
During your adult nursing placements, you'll be assigned Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who'll directly assess and supervise you, as well as act as a means of support and guidance.
As an alternative we would recommend that you investigate the field of nursing you are interested in through online resources, professional body websites and healthcare organisations so you can demonstrate a clear understanding of the role.
Your personal statement provides a unique opportunity to express your personal qualities and attributes related to a rewarding career in nursing.
For more advice on your personal statement please read our article on how to write a personal statement when you have no work experience.
What does a nursing interview involve?
Our interviews consist of an individual interview and group activity.
Interviews start in late November and will run until the summer.
How many weeks' holiday is there each year?
As part of the interview process, you'll be asked to rank your three preferred Trusts, and your Trust will be confirmed once you start the course.
Please note it is not possible to guarantee your first choice.
We would recommend that prior to your interview, you consider your preferred trust.
All your placements will then take place in various locations within that trust, so the travel distance will vary.
You'll be expected to undertake shift work in which you will be assigned a Practice Assessor and Practice Supervisor, who will directly supervise you and act as a means of support and guidance.
A Clinical Link Tutor from the University will also support you during your practice placements.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/mental-health-nursing:
Deliver restorative interventions to those experiencing mental distress and illness.
Develop interpersonal therapeutic skills to promote recovery and positive mental wellbeing.
Graduate ready to deliver effective and sincere person-centred care as a mental health nurse.
The BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing Practice degree will allow you to learn how to deliver compassionate and restorative care to those experiencing mental distress and illness.
As a critical thinker, you'll deliver effective and sincere person-centred care based upon a contemporary evidence-base, which will be administered and applied within a spectrum of clinical skills to include physical health monitoring and promotion, and interpersonal therapeutic skills to promote recovery and positive mental wellbeing.
As a mental health nurse, you'll be competent and confident in working with and supporting a ‘whole-systems’ evidenced approach in diverse settings, ensuring the mental wellbeing of families and carers with a relative experiencing mental distress.
Partnership working with multi-professionals and services will ensure the very best care and outcomes are reached for those experiencing mental illness.
A combination of practice placements with our NHS partner Trusts and on-campus learning using our interactive facilities alongside our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants will give you the chance to develop your skills and experience.
On successful completion of this mental health nursing course, you'll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered mental health nurse.
We use various methods of teaching on the BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing Practice course including:
Assessment methods on this mental health nursing degree include written reports, essays, examinations, oral presentations, portfolios, clinical reflection diaries, competency logs, patient care plans, and case studies.
Spending time on clinical placements in a range of settings under the supervision of registered practitioners will give you the chance to practise what you learn in a real-life setting, giving you a taste of what to expect as a qualified nurse.
Develop the required skills for evidence-based practice in mental health nursing.
Explore the core skills of mental health nursing and take a holistic view of the individual focusing on health promotion, comprehensive assessment and the application of evidence-based practice.
Use a range of teaching and learning strategies to explore the impact of these changes and define the implications for nursing practice.
Develop knowledge and the application of mental health nursing practice interventions to provide evidence-based, safe, and compassionate physical and psychological care.
Effectively assess, plan and implement care and demonstrate a range of mental health nursing interventions.
Explore the evidence base of mental health nursing practice and the range and hierarchy of evidence for particular healthcare issues.
Select a particular area in your field of mental health nursing and develop your ability to make informed use of published research and other sources of evidence to apply findings to enhance your practice.
Develop your knowledge and application of mental health nursing to practice within a range of clinical settings.
The role of a mental health nurse can bring many challenges but is also highly rewarding.
If you’re considering studying for a mental health nursing degree, here you can explore some of the fantastic reasons to choose a career in this area of nursing.
Learn more about mental health nursing
Please note, we don't accept General Studies AS or A Level and you must show evidence of recent academic study within the last five years at entry level.
If you meet these requirements, your application will be individually assessed by the Mental Health Nursing Practice Admissions Tutor and, if successful, you'll be shortlisted for interview.
Nursing degrees make you highly employable, and job opportunities are flexible both within the NHS and community settings, and in the UK and overseas.
Successful completion of this mental health nursing course will enable you to apply for graduate jobs available within the NHS, voluntary, and private sector services in the UK.
Find out more about where a career in nursing could take you.
One in four adults will suffer from a mental illness at some point in their lives and you could be part of the next workforce making an impact.
Mental health nurses are the largest professional group, providing care in a variety of settings.
As key workers, mental health nurses work in a range of complex and rewarding roles in hospitals, GP surgeries, prisons, schools, or within patients' homes.
There's also the option to work in private healthcare or for mental health charities, as well as in the armed forces.
Upon qualifying with your mental health nursing degree, and should you work for the NHS, you'd start at band 5 with a salary of £29,970.
You'd then have the opportunity for career progression to more advanced roles such as an Approved Clinician, which can sit within bands 8b/8c, with the potential of earning a salary of £62,215 or £74,290.
At all levels of this mental health nursing course, you'll undertake unpaid clinical placements in hospitals and the community.
Placements can take place at any of our partner trusts: Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear Foundation Trust, and Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys Foundation Trust.
During your mental health nursing placements, you'll be assigned Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who will directly assess and supervise you, as well as act as a means of support and guidance.
As part of the interview process, you'll be asked to rank your preferred Trusts, and your Trust will be confirmed once you start the course.
We would recommend that prior to your interview, you consider your preferred Trust.
All your placements will then take place in various locations within that trust so the travel distance will vary.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/registered-nursing-associate:
Graduate with the qualifications needed to become a Registered Nursing Associate.
The Registered Nursing Associate course is a new direct-entry course that will cover the six platforms of care for nursing associates as outlined in the Nursing Associates Proficiency Standards.
The Nursing Associate is a registrable qualification with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
This foundation degree is suitable for either those who are new to healthcare, or experienced healthcare workers looking for a recognised qualification.
On completion of the course, you may wish to register as a nursing associate or undertake further education to become a qualified nurse.
This degree is a natural progression from the T Level in Health as well as traditional entry routes from Health and Social Care courses.
Your study time will be split 50/50 between theory and clinical practice.
You'll be exposed to simulation with the use of our state-of-the-art facilities, where you'll learn clinical skills in a safe environment with highly experienced staff and our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants.
You'll be taught using a variety of methods on the Registered Nursing Associate course.
There will be a hybrid model in place which will allow some flexibility to study.
Teaching methods will include various types of simulation, seminars, problem-based learning, synchronous and asynchronous online lessons, as well as on-campus teaching with highly skilled staff.
Assessments methods include:
Enhance your knowledge of professional standards and the value base in health care, complementing the regulatory standards and guidance published by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and other health and social care regulators with whom you’ll be working with during your degree.
Explore a systems-based approach to anatomy, physiology, psychology, and microbiology while in the workplace using patient journeys as illustrations.
Gain an understanding of how to apply theoretical knowledge to nursing practice at the front line of patient care.
Meet patients in the context of interactive workshops and practise articulating complex scientific terminology in relation to specific human anatomical and physiological function.
Gain an introduction to models of reflective practice and an overview of interprofessional working, including an opportunity to acquire insight into lived patience experience.
Explore the three core elements that reflect the competence, professionalism and underpinning knowledge which characterise a high-quality nursing workforce.
Join a series of interactive workshops where critical engagement with the need to translate theoretical learning into practical application supports the front line of patient care.
Use simulated experience to learn about the consequences of error and negligence in a risk-free environment in preparation for the workplace.
Develop an understanding of the key issues related to healthcare practice, informed by the best available evidence to support shared decision making.
Expand on your knowledge of major pathological and physiological changes in the human body, occurring as a result of common disease processes and biopsychosocial processes.
Explore the manifestations, impacts of illness, and interventions to facilitate recovery and wellbeing through inquiry-based learning.
Learn about recovery-focused nursing care and management strategies within the context of current and ethical legal frameworks.
Engage in clinical practice to progress your knowledge and skills in evidence-based nursing interventions including practical clinical skills and use of medical devices.
Enhance your knowledge and application of nursing practice interventions, enabling the provision of evidence-based, safe, and compassionate physical and psychological care.
Develop your skills and knowledge in order to formulate a nursing plan of care and undertake observations and clinical interventions with less direct supervision.
Use your understanding and skills of reflection, clinical supervision, and feedback to use practice learning safely and effectively.
Nursing associates bridge the gap between healthcare support workers and registered nurses, delivering hands-on care in a variety of healthcare settings.
Find out more about nursing associates
We require GCSE maths and English language at grade C/4 or above, or level 2 functional skills in numeracy and literacy.
Members of the Armed Forces will also require maths and English; however, the Level 3 qualification can be replaced with evidence of relevant clinical experience and in-house training.
The selection process will include an individual interview, which will assess you on your values, problem-solving, and communication skills.
Nurses are registered healthcare professionals, and the ability to practise safely, effectively, and professionally is essential, so all applicants are required to follow our fitness to practise procedures.
Annual fees:
Please note, applications are currently closed to international students.
Every trainee nursing associate on this direct entry course, will receive one payment of £1,000 to cover the entire two-year course.
You can use the funds however you see fit, such as for childcare, travel, an iPad for online learning, books, and more.
Nursing is a rewarding and challenging career where you'll make a significant impact on people's lives.
Upon successful completion of this course, you'll be able to register with the NMC as a nursing associate and you may have the opportunity to undertake a shortened nursing degree leading to registration as a nurse.
In March 2024, there were 10,881 nursing associates on the NMC register.
This is a growing workforce and because this course isn't field specific, registered nursing associates will be prepared to work in any of the four fields of nursing practice: adult, mental health, learning disability, or child/adolescent.
They work with healthcare support workers and registered nurses to deliver care for patients and the public.
Find out more about the role of a nursing associate .
As a trainee nursing associate, you'll undertake 1,150 hours of practice placements in hospitals and the community.
Your first placement will take place in the first term, after ten weeks of teaching.
You will undertake your placements at one of our partner Trusts: The Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, North Tees and Hartlepool Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust, and Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust.
During your placements, you will be assigned Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who will directly assess and supervise you, as well as act as a means of support and guidance.
This information is still to be confirmed.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences/sports-coaching-physical-education:
Develop a broad understanding of sports coaching and teaching physical education in school settings.
Gain practical coaching/teaching experience through opportunities which will allow the application of theory into practice and the crucial development of practical and professional skills, relevant to the future workplace.
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education aims to develop aspiring coaches and future educators equipped to teach in primary, secondary and tertiary educational settings.
You'll focus on fitness, training and performance whether that be aligned to athlete development, or the delivery of the national curriculum for physical education.
You'll complete at least 150 hours of work-related experience through local and regional links with sports clubs, public and private fitness centres/gyms, schools, after-school sport and holiday clubs.
This course is aligned to the industry standards as set by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Our teaching methods are designed to develop not only your knowledge but also practical skills through authentic learning activities that enhance employability.
Methods include small group work, practical teaching/coaching activities, work-based activities, workshops, lectures, industry speakers, tutorials, laboratory practicals, computer-based activities, presentations and independent learning.
Assessment methods include lab reports, essays, presentations, reflective portfolios, online quizzes and exams, problem based learning and competency-based practicals.
Do you enjoy sport and want to help others learn and improve?
In this module, you’ll learn the basics of coaching and teaching PE.
You’ll find out how to build fun, safe, and inclusive sessions where everyone can take part and learn.
What makes a great coach or PE teacher?
You’ll start to discover that here.
You’ll look at how giving feedback helps people get better at skills, and how to support those who might find it harder to join in.
You’ll also learn how to plan lessons, work with people of different needs, and reflect on what went well and what could be better.
We’ll also explore how new technology is changing the way we coach and teach.
From apps to video tools, you’ll get hands-on with ideas to boost learning and motivation.
You’ll even dive into sport psychology and ask: how can we help more people feel confident, stay active, and achieve their best?
Are you ready to take your coaching knowledge to the next level?
This module helps you build on what you learned previously and prepares you for your final year.
It brings together the science behind sport and the skills needed to be a great coach.
Have you ever wondered how top athletes train and perform at their best?
You’ll explore how the body works in sport – learning about anatomy, biomechanics, fitness, and nutrition.
These topics will show you how the body moves, builds strength, stays healthy, and recovers.
Why do some training plans work better than others?
How does food or rest affect performance?
You’ll find out.
To bring it all to life, you’ll look at real case studies from different sports taking what you’ve learned and applying it to real coaching situations.
What does it take to be a great coach others can trust and learn from?
In this module, you’ll learn how to plan, deliver, and review your coaching in a smart and effective way.
You’ll build on what you already know and think about how coaches make good choices, work fairly, and always keep learning.
You’ll explore advanced coaching ideas, like putting the athlete at the centre, adapting your style, and using clear communication.
You’ll also learn how to analyse performance, work with others in a team, and use mental skills to help athletes stay focused.
Through real-life coaching tasks and examples, you’ll practise what you’ve learned and face challenges coaches meet every day.
You’ll start to think like a professional – using theory in real coaching situations.
Could this be the step that prepares you for your future career in sport?
What makes a great PE lesson?
In this module, you’ll learn where PE came from, how it has changed over time, and why it matters so much for young people today.
You’ll explore how PE links with other school subjects and how modern technology can make lessons even more fun and effective.
You’ll dive into how young people grow – not just physically, but also in how they think and feel.
You’ll learn about the science behind movement, like biology, nutrition, and how the body works.
You’ll also look at how to plan safe and exciting lessons, and why it’s important to keep thinking about what’s going well and what could improve.
By the end of this module, you’ll be able to design and deliver your own PE lessons – both in the classroom and in practical settings.
You’ll practise making lessons that help young people enjoy being active and stay healthy for life.
Could you be the teacher who helps the next generation love sport and movement?
You will be based in the Darwin Building and CitySpace which has recently benefited from a multi-million pound refurbishment.
State of the art equipment includes Vicon® systems, Xsens® motion capture suits, Kinovea® live action capture software, movement tracking tools, BTE Primus® rehabilitation equipment and so much more.
If English is not your first language, evidence is required of at least Level 6 attainment in the International English Language Testing Scheme (IELTS).
P lease see our English language requirements .
However, students must be aware that to qualify and be accepted for teacher training an IELTS score of 6.5 is necessary.
This may mean that some overseas students will need to undertake additional language development classes and take another IELTS assessment during the progress of the course.
Additional information Sports Coaching and Physical Education students will be subject to Safeguarding and Fitness to Practise procedures.
Prior to admission, a Disclosure and Barring service (DBS) check is required for UK students, whereas for overseas students, a Certificate of Good Conduct from the domicile police force is required.
This is then superseded by a DBS check which must be obtained by the student six months after starting the course.
In addition, an Occupational Health check will be undertaken by the University Occupational Health partner.
If required, the health check documentation is sent externally to an independent GP contacted by the University for approval.
Students will be asked to complete and sign two self-declaration forms prior to admission and at the beginning of each academic year, one declaring good health and the other personal good conduct.
No student will be allowed on placement without the completion of the requisite documentation.
Sports Coaching and Physical Education students will be subject to Safeguarding and Fitness to Practise procedures.
At Sunderland, our sporting courses are professions-facing.
The academic team work closely with employers in the local region to provide valuable and authentic work-based learning experiences.
The course embeds practical experiences which allows you to put theory into practice so that upon graduation, you are well equipped with a broad and in-depth knowledge and skillset.
Work-related experience on the course will ensure that our graduates are ‘ready for work’.
They will be competency-based and supported by an academic mentor.
You'll meet and work with professionals in the fields of sport coaching, sport development, leisure industry and physical education (teaching).
You'll be given the opportunity to present your work to professional colleagues.
Potential employers for graduates of this course include sports clubs, schools and colleges, national sports associations, sports and leisure companies, recreation services and local authorities.
During the course, you'll be encouraged and supported to obtain National Governing Body Coaching Awards to support future development.
This will allow you to develop the skills required to become an effective sports coach/physical education teacher across a range of activities.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/biochemistry:
You will examine the origin of life, the study of disease, and the complex chemistry and developmental biology of whole organisms.
Study areas including biological chemistry, cell biology, clinical chemistry, and molecular biology.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/cosmetic-science:
During the second year, you'll undertake a more in-depth exploration of formulation, dermatology and professional practice in the cosmetic industry.
Through the project you'll demonstrate your capacity to address a particular issue in a rigorous, research-enabled way.
In year one, you'll become familiar with the range of raw materials, cosmetic formulations and formulation techniques in the cosmetics field.
In your final year, you'll study modules which involve the design of more challenging and sophisticated formulations, awareness of formulation protocols and the use of statistics in formulation design.
A key aspect of your course is the development of your knowledge and understanding around the key themes of formulation, legislation, and physiology.
This includes a human anatomy resource, a new state of the art clinical skills suite and bioscience laboratories and a patient simulation suite/theatre.
Cosmetic scientists can become senior chemists and R&D managerial roles with experience in the industry.
You could also explore positions in business, sales and marketing.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-psychology:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Psychology course, with an integrated foundation year.
This course shares a common integrated foundation year and common first year with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.
This enables us to consider making you an offer if you are perhaps a mature student who has been out of education for a period of time, or you have gained significant knowledge and skills through employment rather than traditional education.
Eligible entry qualifications: 1.
Normally a minimum of three Level 2 qualifications (NVQ, GCSE or equivalent), including Maths and English at grade C or above** and a minimum of 40 UCAS tariff points from Level 3 qualifications (e.g.
A or AS Levels, T Levels, BTEC certificates/diplomas, access courses or equivalent).
T Levels must be in a related subject.
OR 2.
Demonstrable evidence of appropriate knowledge and skills acquired from at least three years of post-school work experience.
If you are unsure of whether you think you might be suitable for the course, please contact us!
** If you have studied for a GCSE which has a numerical grade then you will need to achieve a grade 4 or above.
The annual fee for this course is £9,535 if you are from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
If you are a full-time UK/Irish/EU settled/EU pre-settled student you may be eligible to receive financial support to cover your fees for the full four years.
Please note, this course is not available to international students.
If you decide to develop a career in psychological practice, a key benefit of our BSc (Hons) Psychology course is its accreditation by The British Psychological Society.
If you achieve at least a second class honours, you will have the graduate basis for Chartered Membership with the Society.
This is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/psychology-clinical-skills:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology course, with an integrated foundation year.
This course shares a common integrated foundation year and common first year with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and BSc (Hons) Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-psychology-counselling:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling course, with an integrated foundation year.
This course shares a common integrated foundation year and common first year with BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology and BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/forensic-psychology:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology course, with an integrated foundation year.
Examine violent offending such as murder, terrorism, stalking, cyber and sexual crime.
Graduate and work with prisoners, offenders, victims of crime ​and provide forensic expertise to suspects, witnesses and victims within the Criminal Justice System.
This course shares a common integrated foundation year and common first year with BSc (Hons) Psychology , BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and BSc (Hons) Clinical Psychology , which allows you to change routes at the end of the first year should one of these specialisms appeal to you.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/biomedical-science:
Build on your A Level knowledge of biology or chemistry.
Gain expertise in fields such as medical microbiology, immunology, haematology, pathophysiology and clinical biochemistry.
Work towards one of four possible degree titles.
This unique course allows you to work towards one of four possible degree titles: Biomedical Science, Applied Biomedical Science, Biomedical Science (with placement) and Healthcare Science (Life Sciences).
This unique course allows you to work towards one of six possible degree titles:
This course has been designed to develop Biomedical and H ealthcare Scientists who will play a vital role in modern healthcare, but the course also follows a research-active curriculum, promoting development of a wide range of subject-specific and transferrable skills valuable to employers.
The course integrates traditional lectures and laboratory-based learning with a range of approaches to reflect different ways of learning, such as workshops, seminars, case-based learning, group work, one to one tutorials .
T here is also directed and independent study and use of the virtual learning environment.
How do different systems in the body work together to keep us healthy?
In this module, you’ll build a solid foundation in human biology and the interconnectedness of our physiological processes.
You’ll explore the key biological processes essential for human life and learn about the molecular composition and biological functions of organic molecules, and how cell organelles work together to support these functions.
You’ll also gain a basic understanding of the main human physiological systems and how they interact holistically to maintain normal body function.
How do chemical principles apply to real-world challenges?
In this module, you’ll explore the connections between chemistry and other sciences to understand and tackle everyday issues.
You’ll deepen your understanding of the key chemical principles that shape the natural world and learn how the molecular composition and bonding of substances influence their chemical properties and reactivity.
You’ll also explore the structure and behaviour of atoms, molecules, and ions, and how they interact in different chemical reactions.
This will lead to insights into thermodynamics, kinetics, and equilibrium, and show you how chemistry, alongside other scientific fields, helps solve complex problems.
This module helps you develop essential skills for success at university.
You’ll work on academic writing, communication and presentation skills, as well as critical thinking, reading, and writing.
These skills will help you become an effective student and set you up for success in your studies.
How can you build the skills to succeed at university?
In this module, you’ll gain the tools to approach university work with confidence and improve your academic abilities.
Leadership skills, critical reflection techniques, and ethical principles that support a patient centred healthcare approach will also be studied.
Potential employers include the NHS, medical research institutions, clinical laboratories, drug companies and molecular biology companies.
The optional 48-week placement after your second year is a great way to make contacts that can be valuable for future job offers.
You will have completed a compulsory 40-week placement in NHS pathology departments, which are obvious sources of potential employment.
If you switch to this degree you will be well-prepared to apply for roles as a healthcare scientist within the NHS.
Our course provides significant amounts of work-based learning, with compulsory unpaid placements amounting to 10 weeks in Year 1, 15 weeks in Year 2 and 25 weeks in Year 3.
At an entry level, the work involves obtaining diagnostic data from patients and working as part of a multidisciplinary team that also includes doctors, nurses and radiographers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-sports-coaching-physical-education:
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education with Integrated Foundation Year aims to develop aspiring coaches and future educators equipped to teach in primary, secondary and tertiary educational settings.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-computer-science:
This interesting and challenging course combines hands-on development with the theories behind how and why computers work as they do.
You'll have the opportunity to explore a wide range of tools and technologies, becoming adept in software development and configuration, and learn industry-relevant languages (e.g.
Javascript, C#, Python, SQL) and various methodologies for professional development.
You'll work alongside other students and academics (who are experts in their field) in the David Goldman Technology Centre, and have access to various specialist computer science labs.
Topics you'll study include: software development, database systems, artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), DevOps, emerging technologies, robotics, industry projects, and cybersecurity.
We provide professional-level developer software and advanced hardware through accreditations with Cisco and other major companies.
We also have excellent links with industry and provide all BSc (Hons) Computer Science students the opportunity to study for additional industry certifications.
Teaching methods include lectures, tutorials, seminars and laboratory sessions.
You will be encouraged to develop independent study skills as well as work with other students on group projects.
As well as assessments (i.e.
coursework) that count towards your degree, there are also ongoing opportunities for feedback and consolidating your learning.
Consider a wide range of perspectives related to the field of computing to help prepare you for your degree study.
Understand how a modern computer works and how this has developed over time, leading to the adoption of the Von Neumann architecture.
Comprehend various ways of programming a computer using a modern compiled software language.
Develop the necessary skills for study at university.
Enhance your academic writing, communication, and presentation skills.
Reflect upon your development, career aspirations, and personal goals.
Investigate a topic area related to your degree programme, and produce either a portfolio, practical project, performance, artefact, video, website, essay, or analysis of data/report.
Engage in lectures, tutorials, lab, and/or practical sessions with subject specialists.
Gain experience of researching your subject area and further develop your critical thinking, writing, time management, and organisational skills.
Study the components of a computer network, install and power up virtual machines and describe threats to their security and well-being.
Develop your confidence when working with networks, virtualization, and security.
Enhance the skills vital to becoming an IT professional, including communication skills, operation procedures, and ethical and legal considerations.
Consolidate your numeracy skills and see how to apply them to real-life scenarios.
Consider how statistical results are presented, calculated, and misrepresented.
Study the foundations of numeracy, including powers, roots, fractions, percentages, standard form, area and volume, ratio, and proportion.
Explore a wide range of software engineering techniques and industry practices, designed to promote the production of high-quality, efficient, reliable, and secure software.
Examine how software is created and the various stages of the software development lifecycle, together with consideration of social, ethical, professional, and legal issues.
Evaluate software products to ensure that they are functioning correctly, and conclude their strengths and weaknesses.
Gain an overview of how a computer works, from the moment it is switched on.
Explore what happens inside the machine, including how computers process input, generate output and store data.
Install and configure a modern operating system, and troubleshoot hardware and software problems using real equipment and simulations.
Learn about the fundamental programming concepts, including how to write computer programs using a high-level programming language such as Python or C#.
Develop an understanding of debugging techniques to find and resolve defects.
Select and implement appropriate structures for file handling, data manipulation, and error handling within a program.
Explore both front-end and back-end web development, and use frameworks to create a fully dynamic web application.
Consider the development of the modern web and review the underlying technologies and standards.
Create programs that run on a live web server and use a modern programming language.
Explore and develop an individual project based around your preferred area of study.
Work directly with subject specialists in workshop-style sessions to explore your specialism.
Appreciate the social, ethical, professional, and legal issues as they apply to computer-based systems.
Delve into the emergence of novel tools and techniques within computer science.
Discuss the potential impacts of a range of emerging technologies on industry and society, including virtual and augmented reality, drone technology, cryptocurrencies, wearable technologies, and cybersecurity.
Consider the issues associated with end user adoption of new and emerging technologies.
Learn how to use Agile and DevOps practices in modern software development, using a range of modern tools and technologies.
Apply SCM concepts and GIT commands to a range of developer situations.
Design, develop and deploy a workflow on a remote repository that automatically builds, tests and deploy a software product.
Gain a foundational understanding of database and the relational database model.
Learn to use extended relational programming languages for manipulation of relational databases.
Analyse and evaluate current problems and insights associated with modern secure database information systems development.
Propose solutions to programming problems through OO software design modeling, using UML diagrams, notations, and techniques.
Apply advanced OO programming constructs to the development of professional-standard software.
Select appropriate software design patterns, data structures and algorithms to provide efficient solutions to complex programming problems.
Enhance your understanding of IoT technologies and their application to robotics and automation.
Use driver packages, with appropriate programming language (such as Python) for prototyping IoT device applications involving the use of sensors and effectors.
Apply appropriate networking concepts (such as protocols, transports, and services) to support the remote operation and connectivity between edge computing devices.
Analyse security principles and the core technology used to enforce and maintain security of data and computer systems.
Investigate case studies of cyber security incidents relating to businesses, where social factors such as social engineering, oversharing, and phishing attacks have played a major part.
Design and create a secure system.
Participate in the organising, running, controlling, and monitoring of a team tasked to produce a computer-based solution to a client-posed problem.
Respond to client analysis and feedback to progress and complete your prototype solution.
Appreciate enterprise approaches for software project determination, selection, development, implementation, and criteria-based evaluation.
Spend 48 weeks on placement working within the industry.
Refine, plan, schedule and produce an individual project based on your experience.
Critically reflect on the skills and experience gained as part of your placement.
Articulate an in-depth knowledge and critical understanding of your chosen research topic.
Develop your professional skills, such as problem-solving, creativity, critical thinking, self-reflection, and time management.
Collect, organise, and present your body of work, including a critical evaluation and correct citation and reference of appropriate research sources.
Examine a range of AI techniques and their application to problem-solving within society, industry, and research.
Develop an awareness of the contemporary developments in the field of AI and their application and potential implications.
Critically assess real-world problems and determine which AI approaches are suitable for their solutions.
Translate research user and contextual data into human-centered design tools such as user stories, personas, and scenarios.
Design and develop digital prototypes for a given problem specification.
Critically evaluate the usability and user experience of a given interactive system.
Investigate the different ways apps can be created and look at the range of technologies available for the creation of web apps, hybrid applications, and native applications.
Design and create applications for a range of different hardware platforms, such as smartphones, tablets, wearable technology, and embedded systems.
Critically evaluate a mobile application designed for cross-platform deployment.
Dive into the key concepts and applications of Big Data, including how to manage, use, analyse and visualise Big Data effectively in real-world scenarios.
Examine Big Data challenges, including privacy issues and data storage.
Select and apply Data Science tools and methods such as data visualisation, data mining, and data analytics for analysing Big Data sets.
The CyberZone contains many high-performance machines for cybersecurity exploration.
Equipped with ample processing power and RAM, you'll delve into virtual machine simulations, mastering malware analysis and defense strategies.
An Isolated network provides a secure environment for hands-on learning, ensuring risk-free experimentation.
Study physical networking and virtual networking in this space, as well as how to secure networks.
Facilities include switches and routers, picocell mobile technology and an eye-tracker which can be used in research projects.
There is even the opportunity to program sensors used in a variety of industries, including manufacturing and healthcare, for example heart monitors used in the healthcare industry.
Our outstanding IT facilities include the David Goldman Technology Centre, which has hundreds of computers so it’s easy to find a free workstation with the software you need.
We are an accredited Cisco Academy and have two laboratories packed with Cisco networking equipment including routers, switches, terminals and specialist equipment for simulating frame relay and ISDN links.
We host high-performance computing platforms, including a Big Data machine and a High Performance Computing Cluster system, for concurrent processing of complex computational tasks.
We also have the equipment and licences for our own public mobile cellular network.
The David Goldman Technology Centre has a variety of open plan spaces, and the Level 2 Gallery is a communal space for students to relax and study.
Audio Visual Technology is available for students to use whenever, for example, using smart screens to view presentations for further study.
The Project Lab is used by final year Computing students to enable them to work on their final year project in their individual study time.
Specific software can be added to the computer stations, if necessary for the students’ projects.
Presentations and vivas (an oral exam whereby students present their thesis) are carried out in this space too.
This course is based at the David Goldman Technology Centre, a high-tech computing environment with strong links to software companies and a constant exchange of ideas and people.
This course has a strong emphasis on real-world learning and problem-solving that boosts your employability and equips you with the transferable skills needed to make an impactful contribution to the workplace.
In your final year of the course, you will undertake a major individual project with research-active staff.
This adds to your hands-on experience and, in some cases, leads to a job offer that can be taken up as soon as the course ends.
Our graduates have gone on to become web programmers, IT managers, information analysts and software developers.
Employers that have taken on our graduates include Sage, British Airways and the NHS.
Other graduates have started their own businesses or become software contractors earning over £50,000 a year.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-sustainable-design-engineering:
Our new BEng (Hons) Sustainable Design Engineering course will introduce students to a range of engineering systems and concepts.
It has been carefully constructed to prepare graduates to work effectively in the modern world of engineering and gain a deeper understanding of this fascinating discipline.
Those who study the course will be introduced to a selection of analytical and management techniques, and the tools to apply these techniques in accordance with the recognised ethical requirements expected of, and by, professional engineers.
Topics of study include; sustainable engineering, smart factories, manufacturing systems design and digital technologies.
Teaching methods include seminars, tutorials, groupwork and interdisciplinary groupwork teaming up with mechanical and electrical students.
Students will be assessed in a variety of ways, including online assessment, coursework, group work and laboratory demonstrations.
There are no examinations as part of this course.
Curious how maths and mechanics shape the world around us?
This module builds your core engineering skills and gives you the tools to tackle real-world problems with confidence.
You’ll explore algebra, equations, trigonometry, vectors, and basic calculus to strengthen your problem-solving and help you feel confident working with numbers.
In mechanics, you’ll learn how forces, stress, and motion affect materials and machines.
From Newton’s laws to bending and twisting, you’ll see how engineering principles apply to everything that moves.
By the end, you’ll have a strong foundation in the maths and mechanics every engineer needs.
Ever wondered how electricity powers everything from phones to cars?
This hands-on module helps you understand how electrical circuits and electronics work, starting with the basics of voltage, current, and power.
You’ll work with components like resistors, capacitors, and inductors, DC circuits, AC circuits and new concepts like frequency and impedance.
You’ll also explore how diodes and transistors work and build simple electronic circuits of your own.
You’ll learn to stay safe, take accurate measurements, and solve issues like noise and interference.
By the end, you’ll have the skills to design, test, and improve electrical systems – and maybe even create something new.
Want to learn the tools every engineer needs?
This module helps you build the core skills to succeed in your studies and future career.
You’ll learn how to find reliable sources, reference your work, and avoid plagiarism – so you can write clearly and confidently.
You’ll also learn how to create professional reports, use spreadsheets to test ideas, and apply modelling tools to solve real problems.
In the design section, you’ll sketch, build, and test simple systems, even writing basic code and connecting it to hardware.
By the end, you’ll have the essential skills to think like an engineer, solve problems, and turn your ideas into working solutions.
Ready to start your engineering journey?
This module is built for first-year students and gives you the key skills to solve real-world problems with confidence.
You’ll explore engineering design, materials science, and computer programming while building your creative thinking.
Learn how to solve problems step-by-step, choose the right materials, and understand their impact on the planet.
You’ll also grow your coding skills, which are essential in modern engineering.
With a strong focus on sustainability, you’ll see how engineers protect the environment through smart design and recycling.
Through a mix of lectures, workshops, and hands-on projects, you’ll gain practical experience and a solid foundation for your future.
Step into the fast-moving world of operations management.
Explore how products are designed, launched, and managed from start to finish.
You’ll discover how to predict demand and manage stock using smart tools like Economic Order Quantity while planning capacity and handling supply chain and logistics.
Gain an insight into the future of manufacturing with Industry 4.0 and digital technology driving new innovations.
Interested in robots and how smart factories work?
This module takes you inside the future of manufacturing.
You’ll explore how robots, 3D printing, and smart machines are changing how things are made.
Learn how to use programmable controllers, work with robotics, and see how everything connects in modern factories.
Get ready to build the skills you need for Industry 4.0 and beyond.
Want to play a part in building a cleaner, greener world?
Explore how to design systems that use resources smartly and protect the planet.
Learn how to balance people’s needs while caring for the environment.
By mixing ideas about nature, money, and communities, you’ll discover how engineers create solutions that last for the future.
Ready to explore, experiment, and solve real problems?
In this hands-on module, you’ll work in a team to carry out your own research project.
Choose a topic that interests you – either from expert suggestions or your own idea – and dive into real engineering challenges.
You’ll start with background research, then plan how to explore your idea through experiments, computer tools, or simulations.
Along the way, you’ll test your thinking, analyse results, and decide what they mean.
As you progress, you’ll build key skills in teamwork, time management, and research.
By the end, you’ll feel more confident tackling complex problems and thinking like a professional engineer.
Interested in bringing smart tech into the world of manufacturing?
Dive into learning about digital tools and improve how things are made.
You’ll learn how to solve real problems, boost efficiency, and lead change in smart factories.
From improving a single process to transforming a whole factory, you’ll get the skills to shape the future of Industry 4.0.
How do the big companies keep everything working behind the scenes?
Dive into smart ways to manage and fix equipment using the latest technology and data-driven tools.
Explore key strategies like TPM, RCM, and CBM, and see how Industry 4.0 is changing the game with smart systems and automation.
Learn to balance maintenance plans with realistic limits like cost, business goals, and the environment.
As a result, you'll build the skills to make smart decisions and share your ideas through clear, professional reports."
Build your leadership, communication, and decision-making skills while learning how key business areas like marketing, HR, and finance work.
Take on real-life challenges focusing on risk, ethics, and strategy.
Discover how to plan and manage projects using tools like Gantt charts and critical path analysis.
Explore smart maintenance strategies like RCM, TPM, and CBM, and use cutting-edge tech – including AI, vibration testing, and thermal imaging.
Want to boost efficiency?
Learn how Lean Manufacturing and Just-In-Time systems help reduce waste and improve performance.
By the end, you’ll be ready to lead projects, solve problems, and drive progress in engineering and business.
Lead an original engineering project from start to finish and demonstrate everything you’ve learned so far.
Identify a problem, craft a detailed project plan, and conduct cutting-edge research.
Through hands-on experiments or theory-based work, you’ll develop innovative solutions while carefully documenting your progress.
You’ll finish with a professional report that shows your skills in planning, analysis, and problem-solving.
Want real-world experience?
Industry-based projects are encouraged to gain invaluable real-world experience and impress future employers.
The Mechanical Engineering Lab is used for taught sessions across all engineering courses and facilities include (but are not limited to): inertia wheel; balance beams; vibration testing; thickness testing (with thick and thin cylinders); and structures testing (bending beams).
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Mechanical Engineering Lab.
The projects lab is used for a variety of teaching and learning purposes; there are taught lessons across all engineering disciplines and year groups, plus students are able to come into the lab in their own study time to work on projects.
Facilities include an electrical power wall, equipment to research renewable energy and materials testing.
Throughout the duration of this course, you will have access to our full range of engineering laboratories and workshops, and this will help to prepare you for the world of professional engineering.
You'll develop and enhance your skills using specialist equipment, accessible both on and off-campus.
After graduating you'll be able to work in a variety of sectors including, aerospace, nuclear, defence, automotive, oil and gas, subsea, marine, and energy.
Our recent Engineering graduates have gone on to work for companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors, Jaguar, Perkins Engines, GSK, Northumbrian Water, Hitachi and Parametrics Technology.
Other graduates conduct research within major automotive manufacturers such as Ford, Vauxhall and Nissan.
To further enhance your employability we encourage you to apply for a 48-week placement where available between your second and final year.
Placements are subject to availability and interviews are required.
They are usually paid, with past students having earned an average salary of £14,000-£18,000 a year depending on location
Examples of companies that have offered placements to Sunderland students include Jaguar, Vauxhall, Nissan, Caterham Cars, Cummins Engines and Tata Steel.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-mechanical-engineering:
Learn a range of diverse subjects from thermodynamics, design and the mechanics of machines, to state-of-the-art technological solutions such as finite element analysis, computer-aided design (CAD) and computational fluid dynamics.
Graduate with a choice of career options in design, process, manufacturing and management.
This course covers topics such as electrical principles, mechanics, manufacturing and materials, microprocessors and thermofluids.
You are encouraged to apply to undertake a year-long placement between the second and final years, although it is not compulsory.
Past students have secured paid placement with companies such as Jaguar, Nissan, GlaxoSmithKline, Assystem, Cummins Engines, Delphi Powertrain Systems and Tata Steel.
Staff use their real-world experience to enhance the already excellent teaching and support, which is enriched by research into areas such as manufacturing systems and advanced maintenance.
Please contact us to discuss part-time options.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, group work, laboratory projects and e-learning.
You will also have opportunities to present ideas to other students and develop concepts in groups.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, there are also ongoing assessments for feedback and consolidating your learning.
Assessment methods include exams and projects.
Want to learn how machines think and work?
Discover how to build smart systems that sense, decide, and act.
You’ll learn how sensors collect data and how circuits like amplifiers and filters help clean it up.
Design systems using ADCs, DACs, and microcontrollers, and build problem-solving and coding skills to control real machines.
With simple tools like flowcharts and real hardware, you’ll turn ideas into working systems.
Explore the exciting world of modern engineering design and simulation with this dynamic module.
Whether you're passionate about creating cutting-edge 3D models, optimising designs for manufacturing, or solving complex engineering problems using advanced simulation tools, this module will equip you with the skills and knowledge to excel in the fast-paced engineering industry.
Want to take your mechanics skills to the next level?
This module helps you dive deeper into applied mechanics and use maths to solve real engineering problems.
You’ll build models to understand how machines, materials, fluids, and heat behave in the real world.
In the lab, you’ll put theory into practice.
Explore how machines move and vibrate, how materials bend or break, how fluids flow, and how heat travels through systems – all supported by equations, graphs, and vectors.
By the end, you’ll know how to model, test, and solve complex problems with confidence – essential skills for any successful engineer.
This module builds your skills through maths, software, and hands-on lab work.
You’ll learn to solve complex problems and design smarter, more efficient systems.
You’ll study how machines vibrate, how energy moves through rotating parts, and how air and gas systems work in different environments.
You’ll also dive into heat exchangers, engines, and turbines – learning how to manage heat and power systems more effectively.
By the end, you’ll know how to model, test, and improve engineering systems using theory, tools, and practical experience, giving you the confidence to bring real-world solutions to life.
Step into the shoes of a professional design engineer with this hands-on, real-world design exercise.
Tackle an authentic engineering problem, where you’ll apply the full design process and master the art of selecting the perfect materials for crafting high-performance components or assemblies.
This immersive experience mirrors the challenges faced by graduate engineers in industry, giving you a taste of what it takes to excel in the field.
Working in teams, you will collaborate to create a comprehensive group report, submitted in stages, while also showcasing your individual skills through personalised submissions.
Recent graduates have secured graduate jobs that pay around £28,000 a year, with companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors and Nissan.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors, Jaguar, Perkins Engines, GSK, Northumbrian Water, Hitachi and Parametrics Technology.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-electronic-electrical-engineering:
This course covers topics such as electrical and electronic principles and design, automation, control and instrumentation.
You'll be taught by academics who use their real-world experience to enhance the excellent teaching and support provided, with design-based learning and assessment in our state-of-the-art engineering facilities.
You're encouraged to apply for a year-long placement between the second and final year of study, although it is not compulsory.
Past students have secured paid placements with companies such as Jaguar, Nissan, GlaxoSmithKline, Delphi Powertrain Systems and Sellafield Nuclear Power Station.
You will also have opportunities to present ideas to other students and develop concepts within groups.
Assessment methods include exams, multiple-choice tests and projects.
Ever wondered how electricity gets to your home?
Discover how energy is made, moved, and used.
Explore how power stations, cables, and machines like motors and generators work.
Try real lab experiments and use software to see it all in action.
By the end, you’ll understand the journey of electricity from source to socket.
Want to understand how engineers break down problems and build smart electronic solutions?
Explore microprocessors, programming, and circuits with diodes, transistors, and amplifiers.
Design and test your own circuits using industry software, just like the pros.
As a result, you’ll have the skills to tackle real engineering challenges and create new technology.
Curious about how machines think or want to build the brains behind modern tech?
This exciting module brings control systems and automation to life.
You’ll learn how machines think, how systems behave, and how to make them work better, all through a mix of fun theory and real hands-on practice.
If you like solving problems, making things move, or just want to know how smart tech works, this module is for you.
Get the skills to take on real engineering challenges – and start building the future.
Choose a topic that interests you, either from expert suggestions or your own idea, and dive into real engineering challenges.
Delve into the world of electrical power management and protection.
Explore the latest devices that prevent power faults and discover how AC and DC machines are used in real-world factories and engineering.
You’ll also learn how experts calculate power flow and why energy costs and politics play a big role in how electricity is delivered.
Want to know how computers and devices are designed and built?
Discover the basics of digital systems to the amazing tech of the future.
You’ll learn how digital processes work step-by-step and how different types of memory help devices run faster.
Learn how programmable chips can do many jobs and how tiny switches called transistors build the chips we use every day.
You’ll even get to design and test your own digital systems using special programming languages.
Primarily used for simulating factory processes, this manufacturing lab is kitted out with industry standard Festo equipment, robotics and PLCs.
To further enhance employability we encourage you to apply for a 48-week placement where available between your second and final year.
They are usually paid, with past students having earned an average salary of £14,000-£18,000 a year depending on location.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-sustainable-design-engineering:
Our new BEng Sustainable Design Engineering course will introduce students to a range of engineering systems and concepts.
programme content to prepare you for tomorrow's engineering world
the Faculty of Technology was awarded an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2022, in recognition of its commitment to supporting and transforming gender equality
course taught by experienced and supportive academic staff
It also encourages independent and team working with support available from tutors throughout the lifespan of the project.
Concentrate on consolidating your numerical and algebraic skills, while later in the module a greater emphasis will be put on statistics, leading on to completing an assignment based on statistical work you have done earlier.
Take responsibility for your own learning and ensuring you are able to manage your time and work independently.
Understand and apply scientific principles on which simple mechanical, electrical and electronic systems are based.
Apply mathematical concepts learned in the related mathematics module to design, analyse and test a variety of engineering systems.
Confirm your findings through a series of practical activities and computer-based simulations.
Gain the knowledge and confidence to identify appropriate information sources and use them appropriately in the creation of engineering reports.
Learn to use a variety of engineering software in the creation of engineering designs and to support the creation of technical documentation.
Perform calculations with spreadsheets and use CAD software to create engineering designs and prototypes.
Normally a minimum of three Level 2 qualifications (NVQ, GCSE or equivalent ), including Maths and English at grade C or above and a minimum of 40 UCAS tariff points from Level 3 qualifications (e.g.
A or AS Levels, BTEC certificates/diplomas, access courses or equivalent) OR Demonstrable evidence of appropriate knowledge and skills acquired from at least three years of post-school work experience.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-mechanical-engineering:
This is a four-year version of our popular BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering course, with an integrated foundation year.
Mechanical Engineering is the broadest of all engineering disciplines.
Staff use their real-world experience to enhance the already excellent teaching and support, which is enriched by the University’s leading-edge research into areas such as manufacturing systems and advanced maintenance.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-electronic-electrical-engineering:
Sunderland has a good reputation with employers - 100% of graduates are in work or further study six months after graduating, according to the latest Unistats data.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors, Jaguar, Perkins Engines and Parametrics Technology.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/game-development:
This course equips you with the necessary technical skills to develop games both independently and within a multidisciplinary environment, backed by industry standard practices.
You'll have the opportunity to develop games for platforms such as PC, mobile and VR.
With a focus on software development, you'll become adept in games programming using industry relevant languages and mathematical concepts through popular game engines.
You'll work with other students to develop games as part of a games studio environment, simulated in our dedicated Game Development Lab.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, there are also ongoing opportunities for feedback and consolidating your learning.
Gain hands-on experience using an industry-standard game engine.
Plan and design a game using relevant principles and techniques, and incorporate the fundamentals of level design.
Apply game programming techniques using an established set of relevant game-related technologies.
Get practical experience and experiment with the tools and techniques used in game development.
Rapidly design and develop a series of game artifacts, with a particular focus on gameplay mechanics.
Critically reflect on the rapid prototyping approach to game development.
Explore the use and effectiveness of current immersive technologies, including Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality, and Mixed Reality.
Learn how immersive technologies are being used and embraced in the industry and consider these technologies in the context of entertainment.
Examine and evaluate an application prototype for its immersive and interactive qualities.
Enhance your knowledge of the C++ language and develop your programming skills.
Delve into data structures and algorithms and other C++ techniques such as memory management and overloading.
Compare and contrast the usage of C++ development frameworks or engines in a gaming context.
Develop a collaborative VR application using network programming and industry-standard tools.
Consider what makes an interactive artefact collaborative and investigate the limitations of multi-user VR applications.
Devise appropriate technical design documentation for a collaborative VR application using industry-standard diagrams and or illustrations.
Critically evaluate and select appropriate contemporary tools and techniques to design a showpiece game.
Enhance your transferable skills in presenting, planning, and time management.
Evaluate the success of the game with respect to potential or actual end users and reflect on the development process.
As well as an enthusiastic teaching team, you will be supported by the Academic Technical Support team, whose role is to aid students and staff with teaching and projects; help with practical taught sessions; and configure PCs and other kit.
They are experienced and knowledgeable and can be approached by students for support at any time.
The Games Lab is used by Game Development students, across all years.
The space is well equipped, with Dual Monitor Displays for coding and demoing; custom-built powerful machines for game development and rapid prototyping; and PlayStation Academic Development Suit for console development.
There are also various VR headsets available for use and a retro arcade console for gaming and old-school game development.
Students will use Unity Software and Unreal Engines to design and develop games.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for the Games Lab.
This course has a strong emphasis on real-world learning that boosts employability and equips you to make a bigger contribution in the workplace.
You will acquire a high level of software related transferable skills that will make you attractive to local, regional, national and international companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/cybersecurity-digital-forensics:
Address the needs of cybersecurity and digital forensics professionals.
Develop expertise in the preservation and extraction of digital evidence from computer systems and networks.
Examine the overlap between cybersecurity and digital forensics and the preventative approach to cybercrime.
This course is excellent preparation for jobs in cybersecurity and digital forensics, which is a rapidly growing area given the rise in computer-related crime.
At the same time, the course also covers all the fundamentals of computing, leaving your career options open.
Topics include computer security, development of secure systems and networks, cybersecurity and practical aspects of digital forensics.
As part of the course, we also offer you the chance to achieve the professional certification ‘Certified Ethical Hacker’ (CEH).
We do this by embedding the learning material for the certification directly into one of our modules.
Obtaining CEH status brings forth a multitude of advantages.
Firstly, it serves as a prominent marker of cybersecurity expertise, validating your ability to detect and mitigate vulnerabilities in digital systems.
This certification opens doors to lucrative career opportunities, commanding higher salaries and ensuring job stability, especially in an era marked by escalating cyber threats.
CEH training offers hands-on experience, compliance adherence, and professional networking, fostering ethical hacking practices and enhancing cybersecurity awareness.
Beyond the technical aspects, CEH certification offers an intellectually stimulating and rewarding path, where you’ll continuously face new challenges while safeguarding digital assets responsibly and ethically.
Gain a substantial understanding of key network security principles and methods.
Develop the practical skills needed to implement and support a complex network infrastructure with regard to security.
Evaluate a system to a given set of network security requirements.
Delve into forensic techniques, including the examination of Windows, Unix and Macintosh, covering boot disks, file systems, an overview of digital evidence processing tools, data recovery, file traces, system registry, log files, Internet traces, web browsing, e-mail, network traces and network storage.
Understand digital evidence and how the interpretations of that evidence can be obtained from computer forensics investigations.
Apply the appropriate legal and procedural issues and be aware of the documentary and evidentiary standards in presenting investigative findings in a court of law.
Gain knowledge of a range of cloud models, and analyse these in relation to realistic scenarios.
Explore best practices within cloud computing, as well as Development Operations (DevOps).
Examine various Linux environments and design, configure and utilise Linux tools and technologies that are relevant to cloud infrastructure.
Refine, plan, schedule, and produce an individual project based on your experience.
Gain a holistic understanding of the cybersecurity threat landscape, and of cyber risk assessment and management.
Research, investigate, and analyse the cybersecurity incidents, threats, and vulnerabilities that make up the cyber threat landscape, both in terms of recent emergent issues and those issues which recur over time.
Work with case studies to investigate the security strategies employed by a company, and then recommend applicable policies and frameworks.
Understand the most prevalent web application vulnerabilities, their causes, and their consequences.
Study the methodologies for testing for evidence, vulnerabilities within applications, and protection against these.
Utilise the techniques of ethical hacking to discover and exploit vulnerabilities in web applications.
Discuss and investigate advanced applications in computer forensics such as employability, payment card industry, e-disclosure, social media, internet crime, malware and spyware, network forensics, and mobile phone forensics.
Build your knowledge base to include essential areas such as the process of identifying, preserving, analysing, and presenting digital evidence.
Consider the ethical and professional dilemmas facing computer forensic practitioners and cybersecurity investigations.
Evaluate the technical, legal, and business issues involved in developing, implementing, and testing secure systems, considering the potential security threats.
Critically analyse the trade-offs of balancing key security properties: confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
Examine the specific threats to networks, the architecture for secure networks (for example OSI security architecture), and the development and design of defense mechanisms and countermeasures.
The Forensics Lab is used by students studying cybersecurity and digital forensics.
Computer stations are industry standard, with virtual machines running various operating systems and tools, enabling students to learn how to secure different operating systems and practice forensic examinations; the recovery, examination and analysis of operating systems and internet artefacts; and cybersecurity.
Specialist software is used including Encase, Xways Axiom and Cellebrite, a specialist piece of software designed for mobile technology.
Students will also have access to various pieces of forensic equipment, including a Tableau write blocker which ensures the integrity of data during an examination.
In your final year of the course you'll undertake a major individual project with research-active staff.
Employers are increasingly looking not only for strong CVs but also real-life demonstrations of technical know-how and commitment to self-development.
All computing students at the University of Sunderland develop e-portfolios that become showcases of personal progress.
A typical e-portfolio would include audits of your skills, reflections on your areas of strength, evidence of how you have tackled weaker areas, and tools for joining up your learning in different modules.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/undergraduate-computer-science:
Final year (national level 6)
The overall grade for the T Level must be a pass with a core grade C or above in a Science related subject.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/cybersecurity-digital-forensics:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics course, with an integrated foundation year.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/undergraduate-primary-education-send-qts:
Become a primary school teacher.
Develop skills for working with pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND).
Be the teacher they remember all their lives.
The BA (Hons) Primary and SEND Education allows you to specialise in supporting pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities within a mainstream school, special school, or in an alternative provision.
You'll receive the same training and skills as our other teacher training courses, but with a focus which ensures you have the opportunity to develop further strategies for working with pupils with special needs such as autistic spectrum conditions, learning difficulties, and complex learning needs and disabilities.
The course includes specific SEND modules alongside opportunities to undertake placements in special schools, SEND units and/or resourced provision, where you'll gain hands-on experience and prepare yourself for a successful career in teaching.
This SEND course is taught via lectures, seminars, group work, computer-based learning and independent learning.
In-school training is an important part of this course.
During that time, you will benefit from practical learning and be supported by school-based trainers, University tutors and your peers.
Your progress will be assessed with written assignments, posters, presentations and computer-based assessments (including podcasts and vodcasts).
Throughout the degree you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
This module will help you develop an understanding of core curriculum subjects in key stages 1 and 2 of the national curriculum and Early Years Foundation Stage framework in literacy, mathematics, and scientific aspects of understanding of the world.
You’ll gain knowledge of approaches to phonics and early reading, and pedagogical approaches to support effective teaching and learning in a primary classroom.
You’ll then begin to devise lesson plans to demonstrate this knowledge.
The module will have a strong focus on subject knowledge development, providing you with a basis on which to build throughout the course.
In this module, you’ll be introduced to the content of the wider curriculum subject areas taught within the Early Years Foundation Stage and the primary national curriculum.
The main focus will on the key concepts within each subject to develop your subject knowledge and confidence with delivering associated teaching.
You’ll begin to identify and develop your understanding of some pedagogical and planning approaches and you’ll investigate the benefit of educational visits and learning outside the classroom.
This module will introduce you to the role of a professional teacher and key legislation, educational policies, and expectations.
Sessions relating to safeguarding and Prevent and British Values, alongside child development, learning, theory, behaviour management, and SEND, will form part of the module, which will be considered in the early years and primary contexts.
You’ll consider current curriculum models and plan for teaching and learning while thinking about how the two are linked.
The module content will also support preparation for your placement module.
You’ll begin to develop purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge in this module, taught both in university sessions and in practical experiences in educational settings.
You’ll learn the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher across various settings including early years, key stages 1 and 2, and SEND contexts.
You’ll also gain an introduction to SEND legislation and a range of learning needs.
This module will build on the knowledge gained in year 1, where you’ll continue to develop awareness of the core curriculum subjects in key stages 1 and 2 of the national curriculum and Early Years Foundation Stage Framework in literacy, mathematics, and scientific aspects of understanding of the world.
You’ll learn how the curriculums are taught and adapted within SEND contexts and take the four broad areas of special educational needs into account.
You’ll also gain further knowledge of approaches to phonics and early reading.
This will all help you develop an understanding of how to support effective teaching and learning in primary and SEND classrooms.
You’ll begin to create your own lesson plans and learn how to meet the needs of all pupils.
In this module, you’ll further develop your subject knowledge in the foundation subjects within mainstream and SEND contexts.
You’ll identify, refine, and develop understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
You’ll also be guided to utilise research in the field, Ofsted, and Government documentation.
You’ll continue to develop your knowledge of key SEND legislation, policies, and guidance, and different curriculum models to support learners with SEND and how these are applied in different contexts.
Specific SEND needs and how knowledge of associated barriers to learning and individual strengths can be utilised to inform pedagogy will also be examined.
Building on the learning undertaken in year 1, you’ll explore significant barriers to learning within a primary context whilst supporting the development of planning, assessment, and how to provide challenge for all pupils.
This links with the opportunities to observe, plan, and deliver interventions during the Emerging Professional Practice module.
The module will also give you the opportunity to reflect upon professional development and the professional responsibilities of the teacher.
You’ll also continue to develop your skills in academic reading and writing.
This module will give you the chance to continue to develop purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge, taught both in university sessions and in practical experiences in educational settings.
The module builds on the experiences undertaken in the Preparing for Professional Practice module, and you’ll continue to gain an understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher, allowing you to put this into practice.
In this module, you’ll build on the knowledge and skills developed in the earlier Core Curriculum Learning modules, demonstrating secure knowledge of these subjects in key stages 1 and 2 of the national curriculum and Early Years Foundation Stage Framework.
You’ll continue to learn about how curriculums are adapted within a range of SEND contexts and take the four broad areas of SEND into account.
You’ll also demonstrate your knowledge of approaches to phonics and early reading.
As well as this, you’ll develop a deeper understanding of formative and summative assessment strategies to support effective teaching and learning across core curriculum areas, analysing pupil data to identify next steps of learning to support their progress.
This will show your ability to develop sequences of learning which address misconceptions and gaps in learning.
This module will give you the opportunity to apply your subject knowledge, including distinct disciplinary knowledge, in the foundation subjects within mainstream and SEND contexts.
You’ll consolidate knowledge of how themes can be developed, how key concepts can be reinforced, and how pupils can be encouraged to demonstrate subject specific disciplinary knowledge.
You’ll be given the chance to deepen your understanding of how purposeful assessment can be used to ensure pupils’ progress and can apply this knowledge to the Professional Practice module.
You’ll build on the SEND specialism taught in the Wider Curriculum module, consolidating your understanding of key SEND legislation, policy, and guidance, and how these link to practice and support an inclusive ethos in different SEND contexts.
You’ll also consolidate knowledge of how evidence-based practice and understanding of individual needs can be used to inform decision-making in relation to pedagogical approaches and classroom adaptations.
Building on the learning undertaken in the Professional and Academic Learning module, this module will focus on assessment and its place within the primary curriculum.
This links with the opportunities to plan, assess, and track pupil progress during the Professional Practice module, identifying next steps in pupils’ learning.
The module will also provide insight into employability and share good practice between partnership school leaders.
You’ll develop and reflect upon professional development and the professional responsibilities of the teacher.
This module will give you the opportunity to consolidate purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge, taught both in university sessions and practical experiences in educational settings.
The module builds on the Emerging Professional Practice module and further develops and consolidates the understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher, allowing you to put this into practice.
Are you thinking of becoming a special needs teacher?
Here we’re exploring all about what Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) means in an educational context, including what you need to become a special needs teacher or Special Educational Needs Coordinator (SENCO).
Learn all about what it's like to become a SEND teacher
Teaching placements are an integral part of your initial teacher training, and we offer placement opportunities across several of our undergraduate and postgraduate education courses so you can gain relevant work experience.
Discover more about what to expect on your teaching placement including how to prepare, the skills and knowledge you’ll gain, and the support you’ll receive.
Learn what to expect on your teaching placement
Find out more about primary education
The Faculty of Education provides thousands of relevant books and e-books, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
You’ll also have access to a comprehensive range of print and electronic journals which are always kept up to date, including the EBSCO Professional Development Collection, Community Care Inform, JSTOR and many more.
You must have a grade C or above in mathematics, science, and English language, or equivalent qualifications.
We'll only accept GCSE equivalencies from equivalencytesting.com .
In addition to academic qualifications, you must also: Have an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check Complete a medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
Your numeracy and literacy competency will be assessed continuously throughout the course following the DfE’s removal of the Professional Skills Test.
If English isn't your first language, you'll also need International English Language Testing System (IELTS) at a score of 6.5 overall with 6.5 in writing and no other element lower than 6.0.
You'll be assessed on your potential to learn and not your experience.
All successful applicants will be invited to an interview.
Interviews start in early November, so we recommend that you apply as soon as UCAS opens in October.
Read more about funding for armed forces personnel.
Take a look at the scholarships and bursaries that may be available to you.
Good teachers are always in high demand, so it's likely you'll find a job upon graduation.
All qualified teachers will have a starting salary of at least £31,650, and this will be higher for teachers working in London.
The amount you earn will then increase until you reach the top end of your pay scale, after which you can choose to progress into more senior roles, such as leading practitioner or head teacher.
The teachers’ pension scheme is also one of the most generous public sector pension schemes in the UK, one of the few guaranteed by the Government.
This SEND degree awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained primary school in England.
Most graduates from this course go on to teach in mainstream schools, special schools or in alternative provision.
Some graduates choose to move to a special school or alternative provision once they have had some teaching experience and the opportunity to gain experience teaching pupils with SEND.
You may want to consider becoming a Special Educational Needs Coordinator (SENCO).
SENCOs are a key part of the school workforce and play a fundamental role in supporting children and young people with SEND.
To become a SENCO, you will need to complete the National Award in Special Educational Needs Coordination (NASENCO) in addition to your teaching qualification, within three years of taking up a SENCO post.
Teaching placements are an essential part of this degree.
You'll spend time in schools during each year of this three-year course, gaining a true understanding of what being a primary school teacher involves, and using your new skills and knowledge.
When you’re ready to start searching for a teaching job, you'll already have valuable first-hand teaching experience, as well as a wide network of professional contacts who can help you find the right career opportunities.
With support from our dedicated placement officer for SEND, specialising in this area on placement will help you tailor your teaching styles to meet the different needs of pupils by exploring the potential barriers to their learning.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/undergraduate-primary-education-qts:
Help young children develop a love for learning.
If you want to inspire the next generation and embark on a rewarding career where no two days are the same, the BA (Hons) Primary Education with QTS could be the course for you.
This is a challenging teaching degree which will develop your knowledge and skills in the broad range of curriculum studies qualifying you to teach at primary level.
Teaching placements in schools are an essential part of this primary education degree, accounting for a total of 70 credits and enabling you to gain valuable hands-on experience to prepare you for a successful career in teaching.
You'll be taught by academics who are experts in their field and bring a wealth of experience to the classroom, and when you graduate, you'll be a fully qualified primary school teacher.
The BA (Hons) Primary Education with QTS degree is taught via lectures, seminars, group work, computer-based learning, and independent learning.
During your time on placement, you'll benefit from practical learning and be supported by school-based trainers, University tutors and your peers.
Your progress on this primary education degree will be assessed with written assignments, posters, presentations and computer-based assessments, (including podcasts and vodcasts).
Throughout the course, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
This will all help you develop an understanding of how to support effective teaching and learning in a primary classroom.
This module will build on the knowledge gained from the Wider Curriculum Learning module, considering the foundation curriculum areas in the primary national curriculum and early years equivalent.
This will give you the chance to further develop your subject knowledge whilst gaining a deepening understanding of a selected curriculum specialism.
You’ll also be guided to utilise research in the field, Ofsted, and Government documentation, and reflect on experiences in practice and research to enhance your own personal pedagogy for teaching and learning in your specialist area.
This module will give you the opportunity to apply your subject knowledge, including distinct disciplinary knowledge, in the foundation subjects while concurrently continuing your specialist curriculum area.
Building on the specialism chosen in Wider Curriculum and Subject Specialism module, you’ll also consolidate knowledge of how evidence-based practice can be used to inform decision-making in relation to pedagogical approaches, considering the qualities required of a subject leader in a primary context.
This module will give you the opportunity to consolidate purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge content, taught both in university sessions and practical experiences in educational settings.
Read more about the differences between PGCE and QTS
Interviews start early November, so we recommend that you apply as soon as UCAS opens in October.
The BA (Hons) Primary Education degree awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate, you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained primary school in England.
Most graduates from this course go on to teach in primary schools.
Teaching placements are an essential part of this primary education degree.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/physical-education-qts:
Share your love of physical education.
Train for a career as a PE teacher where you will inspire and influence young people.
Give them the motivation, confidence, competence and understanding to lead a physically active life.
The BSc (Hons) Physical Education with QTS degree is a fast-track route into teaching, taking just three years to become a fully qualified PE teacher in secondary education.
If you want to inspire confidence in children to lead a physically active life while embarking on a rewarding teaching career, this course could be for you.
Learning through hands-on experience by undertaking placements in schools and applying theory to your teaching practice will help you to develop the skills you need to teach young people in physical education.
During this PE teaching degree, you'll study the scientific principles of physical education and sport, with applied practical activities while developing your expertise in the classroom, all with the support of a strong partnership between the University and your placement school.
This PE teaching course is taught via a mix of practical sessions, lectures, seminars and workshops, as well as project and individual work.
You'll also undertake placements within a school which will enable you to get valuable hands-on experience to prepare you for becoming a PE teacher.
Placements are available within both primary and secondary school settings.
Your progress on this Physical Education degree will be assessed by project work, practical assessments, essays and observed placements.
This module will provide you with guidance in the conventions of utilising research for academic writing and model academic skills including writing and presenting.
You’ll develop essential skills for academic success and future employability, as well as enhance your professional development for continued lifelong learning.
You’ll also study maths as a second subject, supporting your employment opportunities post-graduation.
In this module, you’ll develop emerging understanding of the various pedagogical approaches to the teaching and learning of young people in physical education and school sport, starting with a focus on the primary setting and concluding with secondary.
You’ll examine key areas of consideration such as the national curriculum for physical education, high quality PE, and fundamental principles of motor skills and their acquisition.
You’ll also review emerging issues in relation to the current landscape of PE.
You’ll acquire knowledge of the landscape of physical education and school sport in a practical setting in this module, starting with key stages 1 and 2 and concluding at key stage 3.
You’ll apply your knowledge within a practical setting with a key focus on the national curriculum for physical education and selected aims of PE specifically.
You’ll also take part in and deliver a series of PE lessons using the knowledge you’ve gained to exercise appropriate judgement in this context.
In this module, you’ll have the opportunity to apply subject, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge gained in your university sessions to schools and other educational settings.
You’ll be given the chance to apply this knowledge during your experiential placement, completing focused tasks and reflections during the placement.
This module will develop your essential skills for academic success and future employability.
You’ll increase your awareness and understanding of the processes involved in learning and professional development for continued lifelong learning.
The module will raise awareness of the PE profession and your career opportunities for a long and rewarding career.
As part of the module, you’ll continue to study maths as a second subject, which supports your employment prospects post-graduation and equips you with the subject knowledge to deliver key stage 3 maths.
In this module, you’ll enhance your understanding of the various pedagogical approaches to the teaching and learning of young people in physical education and school sport.
You’ll explore key areas of consideration from a models-based approach including psychological perspectives like motivation and self-efficacy; sociological perspectives like occupational socialisation theory and social learning theory; and models-based approaches to delivering PE lessons like game-based approaches.
You’ll also compare differing approaches of the holistic child.
You’ll extend your knowledge of the landscape of physical education and school sport in a practical setting in this module, with a focus on key stage 3.
You’ll take part in and deliver a series of PE lessons using the knowledge you’ve gained to exercise appropriate judgement in this context.
You’ll also reflect on your teaching practice both formatively and summatively, closing the feedback loop.
This module will give you the opportunity to develop your subject, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge gained in university sessions to schools and other educational settings.
You’ll complete an assessed placement where you’ll start to make judgements about the routines, skills, and strategies that support effective teaching.
In this module, you’ll develop your classroom-based knowledge and delivery skills in relation to vocational and academic qualifications in the 14-18 physical education and sport curriculum.
You’ll formulate lesson content from across a range of awarding bodies, then plan and implement a classroom-based lesson from the curriculum content available.
The practical aspect of the module provides you with the opportunity to apply theoretical concepts to classroom situations.
This module will enhance your knowledge of the landscape of physical education and school sport in a practical setting with a focus on key stage 4.
You’ll produce and deliver back-to-back lessons that account for the abilities of older pupils within the context of a PE lesson.
You’ll also reflect on the teaching practice of others both formatively and summatively, actively becoming part of the feedback loop at what is often the pinnacle of PE and sport performance in school.
You’ll demonstrate your ability to engage with a small-scale action research project, undertaken in your placement school.
The project will explore the impact of a specific pedagogic theory within your subject specialism, and you’ll acquire the knowledge and skills needed to carry out an investigation in your field of study.
This project aims to show you the connection between academic enquiry and real-world issues, and you’ll develop key organisational skills, refine the standard of your written prose, and cultivate your communication skills with both your peers and the academic team.
In this module, you’ll immerse yourself in teaching institutions to develop professional knowledge about teaching and learning, making judgements about the routines, skills, and strategies that support effective teaching.
You’ll gain a variety of experience in a work-based learning environment to meet professional standards identified in government legislation.
You’ll also consider the development of a variety of approaches to teach your subject specialism, formulating skillful questioning to reveal levels of pupil understanding, encouraging them to take responsibility for their own academic progress.
Find out more about secondary education
Teaching will take place across both our campuses in Sunderland.
Many of your lectures and seminars will be held at Wearside View, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
This stunning riverside location benefits from a floodlit multi-use games area for practical sessions, dedicated library services, and has superb transport links with the city centre and City Campus.
Practical sessions will take place at CitySpace at our City Campus, which has recently benefitted from a multi-million pound refurbishment.
It features state-of-the-art facilities including a sports hall, fitness suite, gym, strength and conditioning room, injury prevention and support suite, and a climbing wall.
You must also have five GCSEs at grade C or above, and these must include mathematics and English language, or equivalent qualifications.
We'll only accept equivalencies from equivalencytesting.com .
In addition to academic qualifications, you must also: Have an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check Disclose any criminal convictions (required by DES Circular 9/93) Complete a medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
Read more about our English language requirements .
This Physical Education degree awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained school in England.
Teaching placements are an essential part of this Physical Education degree and your PE teacher training.
You'll spend at least 120 days working in schools and colleges, gaining a true understanding of what being a PE teacher involves, and using your new skills and knowledge.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/undergraduate-mathematics-education-qts:
Share your love of mathematics.
Master the subject and inspire the next generation.
Graduate and start a lifelong career teaching something you love.
Share your passion for maths with the next generation by studying the BSc (Hons) Mathematics Education.
This is a fast-track route into teaching, taking just three years to become a fully qualified teacher of mathematics at secondary or college level.
This course will help you develop in-depth knowledge and skills of school-level mathematics and the ability to teach conceptual understanding, whilst considering some of the challenges that children and young people face when learning maths.
Placements are an essential part of the course, allowing you to gain hands-on experience to prepare you for a successful career in teaching.
Whether you've recently studied mathematics, or are thinking of changing your career, one of the advantages of a three-year teaching degree is that you'll have time to develop the subject knowledge required to be a successful teacher over the course of the degree.
The Mathematics Education course is taught via lectures, tutorials, seminars and independent learning.
Throughout the degree you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff, whilst you study a combination of professional studies and mathematics at school level.
This will involve a short, two week, non-assessed school experience, in each of the first two years, followed by an assessed teaching experience in your final year.
Alongside school experiences, you will learn how to teach key mathematical concepts, identifying common errors and misconceptions,  and consider educational issues in teaching mathematics.
Your progress will be assessed with reports, exams, presentations and computer-based assessments.
In this module, you’ll consider the national curriculum for mathematics in key stages 3 and 4, identifying common errors and misconceptions in the classroom.
Through discussion and research, you’ll develop an understanding of how to plan for and address such misconceptions.
In addition to developing your scholarship and academic research skills, this module will allow you to investigate the origins of number, counting, and calculating.
You’ll examine the non-European roots of mathematics, reflecting on the value of a historical perspective in the classroom.
This module will give you the chance to reflect on both the arithmetic and geometric sequences used in key stages 3 and 4 before moving on to expand your knowledge.
You’ll consolidate work on the binomial theorem, considering when sequences are convergent and extending the range of functions you’ve previously met.
You’ll also explore the solution of recurrence relations later on in the module.
This module is designed to give you a basic understanding of a number of areas of applied mathematics.
It’ll also enable you to consider the practical applications of the mathematics taught in schools.
In this module, you’ll consolidate your knowledge of calculus and graph sketching from A Level mathematics, after which you’ll extend the range of functions you can work with.
You’ll review the results of differentiating standard functions from the A Level specification before applying these to a range of additional functions.
Different techniques in integration will be considered, ensuring you’re confident with methods of integration, including the use of partial fractions.
You’ll study pedagogical approaches and gain knowledge of what constitutes effective planning for pupils’ learning and progress in mathematics, including adaptive teaching.
Key areas of the mathematics curriculum in key stages 3 and 4 will be covered, with a particular focus on fluency, reasoning, and problem solving across areas such as number, algebra, ratio, geometry, probability, and statistics.
You’ll also utilise your research skills to reflect on current research in effective pedagogy in mathematics.
This module will give you the opportunity to extend your knowledge of pure mathematics beyond the standard A Level syllabus.
Topics may include complex numbers, matrices, and further inequalities.
You’ll consider a range of problems and how to present them to learners using a variety of pedagogies.
This module is about mathematical processes rather than any particular branch of mathematics, and you’ll be exposed to a variety of tasks to form the basis for reflective thinking in maths.
You’ll learn about key processes including specialising, conjecturing, symbolising, generalising, and proving.
You’ll also develop knowledge of elements of mathematical thinking and communicating mathematics.
The project will explore the impact of a specific pedagogic theory within your subject specialism and you’ll acquire the knowledge and skills needed to carry out an investigation in your field of study.
Find out more about teaching a STEM subject
You can enter this course at year 1 or year 2.
You must also have five GCSEs at grade C or above, and these must include mathematics and English Language, or equivalent qualifications.
Entry to year 2 You should've studied for at least one year in Higher Education.
Examples include an HND/HNC or 120 credits from the Open University.
If English isn't your first language, please check our English language requirements .
Your numeracy and literacy competency will be assessed continuously throughout the course, following the DfE’s removal of the Professional Skills Test.
You should've studied for at least one year in Higher Education.
Troops to Teachers is a £40,000 bursary available to ex-armed forces personnel wishing to study an undergraduate Secondary Teacher Training degree in a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) discipline.
See the Get into Teaching website for more information.
This Mathematics Education degree awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained school in England.
Teaching placements are an essential part of this Mathematics Education degree.
You'll spend at least 120 days working in schools and colleges, gaining a true understanding of what being a maths teacher involves, and using your new skills and knowledge.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/undergraduate-social-work:
Change people's lives for the better.
Protect vulnerable people in very challenging situations.
Make the world a fairer place.
Studying for the BA (Hons) Social Work course is the essential first step to becoming a qualified social worker.
When you graduate, you'll be eligible to apply for registration as a social worker with Social Work England.
For example, you could work with people with learning difficulties, children and families, older people, people who have problems with drug and alcohol misuse, people who experience mental health problems, or disabled people.
Placements are an important part of this social work degree and will allow you to gain real-world experience of working in a social work setting, preparing you for a successful career in this field when you graduate.
The BA (Hons) Social Work course is taught via workshops, small group work, lectures, computer-based learning, presentations, and independent learning.
Your progress will be assessed with group projects/presentations, written assignments, portfolios of work, and exams at the end of some modules.
Throughout this social work degree, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
You'll learn about the role of a social worker and the legislation which is applicable to social work theory, research, ethics, and values.
Two practice learning opportunities (70 and 100 days) in your second and third year will help you to put your learning into practice.
You'll develop skills in problem-solving, communication, working with others, and patience.
You'll also learn about law, partnership working, assessment, intervention, mental health, and disability issues.
The BA (Hons) Social Work degree is also available to study on a part-time basis.
Examine the historical context of what social work is and what it sets out to achieve, looking at the broad areas in which social work takes place and social workers operate.
Consider what social workers do, who they work with, and the regulatory frameworks in which the profession operates.
Explore the values and ethics in social work and start to reflect on your own values, and how these might influence your practice.
Explore social policy and consider the wider influences on society from certain political ideologies.
Reflect on how social policy impacts on modern social work and directly influences professional practice.
Study community-based approaches and how these have been developed within the current political sphere.
Examine how political ideology determines the level of socio-economic prosperity of local communities.
Directly research local communities to consider the impact of social policy on individuals and groups within a chosen area.
Build on your academic and interpersonal skills in preparation for both studying and in practice as a social work student.
Learn about the expectations of academic study within Higher Education and gain the study skills required to be successful.
Focus on developing professional interpersonal skills including communication, team work and relationship building.
Explore the theory behind these skills and reflect on your own professional development.
Demonstrate your readiness for practice ahead of your first placement in second year.
Develop knowledge of the key theoretical frameworks from social science disciplines which inform and underpin social work practice, including key perspectives and major schools of though in both sociology and psychology.
Learn about sociological perspectives and how they can be used to explain and understand a range of social issues.
Focus on psychological theories and perspectives and what these can offer within a life course approach, making links back to sociological perspectives.
Gain an introduction to the legal context of social work, including sources of the law and processes of law making and decision making.
Learn about the key legislation, policy and guidance that underpins social work practice with a range of people including children and families, adults, and carers.
Consider the degree to which the law supports social work values and enhances or constrains ethical decision making in practice.
Gain knowledge of the key legislative, policy and guidance frameworks which will support you prior to starting your first placement.
Develop your understanding of the importance of working with individuals and groups including adults, children and families.
Explore power, autonomy and discrimination in more detail, including the conflicts between care and control and the importance of understanding people’s needs and wishes.
Focus on relationship building between professionals and individuals and families.
Examine the role of assessment and intervention in social work and how this can be used to effectively support individuals and families.
Build on your knowledge and skills around research methods, as well as the critical and reflective skills you have developed across the first year of study, enabling you to consider the impact of research on an area of practice.
Learn about different research methods and the relevance of research within social work practice.
Gain an introduction to different ways of undertaking research and develop the ability to critique it, considering the strengths and limitations of different approaches and what this means for their use within practice.
Further develop your critical thinking, reflective and reflexive skills and examine the use of research within a practice setting.
Explore a variety of different social work theories, as well as various aspects of the assessment and intervention process.
Examine a range of specific models that are used in social work.
Undertake a practice placement within a social work or social care setting in line with Social Work England requirements and actively engage in direct work overseen by a practice educator.
Focus on decision making including risk assessment, reflection and analysis, and critical writing.
Consider more complex decision making when working with adults and children at risk.
Examine decision making in relation to social work, including a critical consideration of advanced areas of safeguarding adults and children, such as relevant legislation and research.
Hear from a range of speakers providing current perspectives on different areas of complex social work practice.
Explore and critically analyse the reality of the practice environment and the implication of the structures in which social work operates.
Consider the impact of organisational and management culture as it sits within a political ideology and how this may inhibit or facilitate service delivery.
Examine your own professional identity and how organisational culture and wider factors can influence your identity as a student social worker.
Produce a literature review which explores and critiques the current research knowledge on a topic of your choice.
Consolidate your learning from the course and explore in depth a topic that you are interested in, critiquing and synthesising the evidence base, and discussing the relevant of this for social work practice, policy and research.
Develop the research skills needed to undertake a literature review and receive regular support from a dissertation supervisor to produce an independent project.
Undertake a final placement in line with Social Work England requirements.
Consolidate your knowledge gained over the course into a practice setting and provide experience of high risk decision making and legal interventions, whilst being supported and assessed by a practice educator.
Find out more about social work
As a Social Work student, you'll be able to enhance your practice strategies with our specialist Communication Skills Room, based in Wearside View.
As the home is the most common location for social work to take place, you'll have the opportunity to use this space to simulate a living room environment.
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Wearside View.
If English isn't your first language, you'll also need International English Language Testing System (IELTS) at a score of 7.0 in all components.
The application process As social work is a regulated profession and successful completion of the course gives you basis to apply for registration with the English regulator, Social Work England, there are several stages to our selection process.
The first stage involves your application where you showcase your knowledge and experience and make it clear why you want to study social work.
If your application is shortlisted, you'll be invited to complete a written exercise online that looks at your written ability and assesses your attitude and values towards a social work-related scenario.
If successful, you'll then be invited to an interview, where you'll meet staff who teach the course, as well as some current students.
You'll complete an assessed group discussion with other applicants and an individual interview.
During the interview, it’s important that you show some understanding of social work and demonstrate your motivation and commitment to becoming a social worker.
This is your opportunity to tell us more about yourself and why you'd be a great candidate for the course.
Both your group discussion and individual interview will be scored by staff and co-educators and offers will be made based on these scores.
Social Care experience To apply for this degree, you must have experience (voluntary or paid) in a social care setting.
You can include placements which you've undertaken as part of college, but we do expect more experience than this.
Experience could include volunteering during weekends, evenings, or holidays.
We may also consider any personal experience you might have.
You should clearly describe this experience in the personal statement section of your application and show how this relates to a career in social work.
Social work involves working with some of the most vulnerable people in society, and social work education is regulated by Social Work England.
We must therefore be satisfied that you're 'fit to practise' before we can accept you onto this degree.
In addition to the academic qualification and work experience, you'll need: Two satisfactory references A satisfactory health clearance (reasonable adjustments can be made for those with any specific health requirements) An Enhanced Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) check A completed declaration form about previous criminal convictions and any disciplinary hearings or investigations related to vulnerable adults or safeguarding young people.
We also require you to complete a declaration form about any previous criminal convictions and any disciplinary hearings or investigations related to vulnerable adults or safeguarding young people.
Social work is listed in the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (Exceptions) Order 1975 [amended 2013] so this means that we must ask you for an enhanced DBS check.
Some spent convictions and cautions are now ‘protected’, which means that we can't take them into account when deciding on your suitability for this course.
You must read the Disclosure and Barring Service Filtering Guide carefully to decide whether or not you need to tell us about your spent convictions or cautions.
Driving While it isn't mandatory that you hold a driving licence and have access to a vehicle to undertake this course, please be aware that the availability of placements may be limited by not driving.
Many Local Authorities in the North East also require driving or access to mobility support as an essential requirement for employment.
As social work is a regulated profession and successful completion of the course gives you basis to apply for registration with the English regulator, Social Work England, there are several stages to our selection process.
To apply for this degree, you must have experience (voluntary or paid) in a social care setting.
While it isn't mandatory that you hold a driving licence and have access to a vehicle to undertake this course, please be aware that the availability of placements may be limited by not driving.
A limited number of social work bursaries are available.
See the NHS Business Services Authority website for more information.
Read more about funding for Armed Forces personnel.
The BA (Hons) Social Work degree is a highly practical qualification.
After graduation, you'll be eligible to apply for registration as a social worker with Social Work England.
Social work is a very broad discipline.
You could work with older people, young offenders, people with mental health issues, foster carers, children at risk of abuse, or any other individuals at risk of harm to themselves or others.
Social workers work in a variety of organisations including local authorities, NHS Trusts, residential care, schools, and the voluntary and private sectors.
Read more about what you can do with a Social Science degree .
The University of Sunderland’s Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) regularly hosts research seminars presented by faculty academics and also visiting speakers and it can be an excellent way to learn about current and up to date research on contemporary social care issues.
You may also find opportunities to collaborate with the academic team.
Placements are an essential part of this social work course, accounting for 70 credits in total.
Placements allow you to apply your learning in a real-life context and get a sense of what type of social work you might want to specialise in.
When you’re ready to start searching for a job in social work, you'll already have a wide network of professional contacts who can help you find the right opportunities.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/crime-policing-investigation/professional-policing:
Graduate from your policing degree and go on to apply for a role as a Police Constable in England and Wales.
Our BSc (Hons) Professional Policing courses have been developed by staff with decades of experience in the police force.
Every aspect of the training has been created by the College of Policing, working with forces and serving police officers.
This professional policing degree follows the National Policing Curriculum and provides you with the skills and knowledge to apply to become a police officer.
You can choose to study BSc (Hons) Professional Policing on our two-year accelerated route, a fast track option to your career in policing.
In just two years, you'll be equipped to meet all the responsibilities and challenges to apply for a rewarding career in policing.
Please ensure you use the correct UCAS code when applying:
BSc (Hons) Professional Policing (UCAS code P1P2) BSc (Hons) Professional Policing (Accelerated) (UCAS code P1P3)
The BSc (Hons) Professional Policing degree covers the National Police Curriculum in a practical and relevant way.
You'll learn the underpinning theories in criminology and the processes of criminal justice, but you'll also be given specialist tuition from former police officers in the core areas of conducting effective investigations, policing communities, policing the roads, information and intelligence, and response policing.
The two-year accelerated route has been designed to be taught alongside the three-year version of the policing course for the first two semesters, thereby offering you the ability to transfer between routes to suit your circumstances.
You'll also benefit from support through your own personal tutor, an academic with policing experience who will provide advice and mentoring throughout the course.
Your progress on this professional policing degree will be assessed through essays, reports, group work, seminar presentations, and self-evaluation.
Study an Introduction to Criminology, Criminological Theory, Defining and Measuring Crime, Trends in Crime and Victimisation, Policing by Consent, Law Enforcement Agencies, Structure of the Police Force, Role of the Police, Professional Policing, Policing Reform, an Introduction to Evidence-based Policing.
Study an introduction to Criminal Justice and social divisions such as class, gender, race and age in criminal justice.
Develop problem solving skills and study evidence-based decision making including the National Decision Model (NDM), the role of discretion, barriers to effective decision making, bias, recording decisions, ethical considerations, and the legal framework and introduction to police powers.
Study an evidence-based approach to policing communities, recording incidents, function of community policing, engaging with the community, preventing and responding to crime and anti-social behaviour, maintaining community cohesion, challenges to community policing, information vs.
intelligence, core functions and procedure of policing the roads, disrupting criminal activity by effective road policing, the strategic road network, pursuit, and evidence-based practice in road policing.
Explore the scope of response policing, types of incidents and crime, Public Order offences, Stop and Search, major incidents, taking accounts from victims and witnesses, evidence-based practice in response policing, challenges in response policing, multi-agency working, social, political and strategic drivers impacting on response policing.
Learn about the history of the police force, professional standards in policing, challenges in operational policing, including public perception, anti-social behaviour, challenges with community engagement, critical reviews of major incidents, abuse of power, misconduct, policing reform, and the College of Policing.
Examine the intelligence cycle, information vs evidence, process of an investigation, evidence-based practice in investigations, understanding the difference between 'volume and priority' and 'serious and complex' crime, accountability and discretion, decision making and applying the NDM, bias, impact of investigations on victims and victim care, expert evidence and expert witnesses.
Study sources of research and evidence for EBP, quantitative and qualitative research methods, strengths and weaknesses of research methodologies, problem solving, creating an ethically sound research question, identifying best practice from evidence, and planning an intervention to tackle an identified issue.
Look at defining 'vulnerability', providing services to those who are vulnerable or at risk of harm, evidence-based practice in policing vulnerability, public protection policing, key legislation, victimology,  personal aspects of vulnerability, intrinsic and extrinsic factors affecting vulnerability, abuse, relationships between victims and offenders, bias, victim and witness care, and justice outcomes for vulnerable people.
Understand technology and use of devices, IT terminology, social networks, encrypted communications, influence of technology, digital hygiene and digital safety, key legislation, digital investigations, digital community engagement, internet-facilitated crime, and the impact of digital crime.
Understand key counter-terrorism terminology and organisational structures, including threat levels, terrorism-related offences, terrorism-related police powers and detention, importance of intelligence, radicalisation and deradicalisation, CONTEST, and links between terrorism and organised crime.
Undertake a significant evidence-based research project while evaluating options, problem-solving and forming solutions
Find out more about crime, policing, and investigation
Learn more about careers in crime, policing, and investigation
Please ensure you use the correct UCAS code when applying: BSc (Hons) Professional Policing – P1P2 BSc (Hons) Professional Policing (Accelerated) – P1P3 Is your qualification not displaying here?
BSc (Hons) Professional Policing – P1P2 BSc (Hons) Professional Policing (Accelerated) – P1P3 Is your qualification not displaying here?
Fees for the accelerated route are:
You may incur additional costs for travelling to placements.
The BSc (Hons) Professional Policing degree will prepare you with the knowledge required to go on to apply for a police constable position within the police force.
It doesn't guarantee that you'll get such a position.
It'll be necessary to complete all separate recruitment processes associated with your chosen force, including further practice-based learning and assessment, demonstrating competence in your role and completing a two-year probationary period.
If you wish to join the police, you must apply to and be accepted within a force within five years of graduation.
If you decide against a career in this field, this policing course has been carefully designed to prepare you with transferable skills required to apply for a number of graduate-level positions.
Explore more career options with one of our Crime, Policing, and Investigation degrees .
The Professional Policing degree will be taught by our staff with significant experience in the police force and they'll be able to provide you with academic advice and mentoring to help you progress towards your chosen career.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/undergraduate-health-wellbeing-care:
Understand the key issues that affect health, social care, and wellbeing.
Make a difference to some of society's most vulnerable groups.
Gain a well-respected qualification to open doors in the sector.
The BSc (Hons) Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree gives you the opportunity to gain critical understanding of integrated health and social care welfare structures and processes, as well as advanced theoretical knowledge and skills in practice and management in the sector.
The completion of a work placement enables you to gain practical, real-world experience of a health and social care working environment.
The course integrates different perspectives which all have a strong basis in social sciences and have been developed to address both student and employer needs.
The course allows you to develop the attributes you need to succeed and graduate with a degree that balances broad topics and theories relating to health, wellbeing and social care.
You'll apply these to contemporary issues such as mental health, substance use, and domestic abuse and also focus attention on public health-related issues such as health promotion, health inequalities, and health ethics.
The teaching staff are experts in their field, bringing with them practice-based experience.
We also integrate important inputs from the Centre for Graduate Prospects to think about employability, entrepreneurship, and innovation.
The range of modules available during the Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree are both academically and vocationally focused.
You'll be provided with a detailed understanding of health and social care theory, policy, and practice, and will also be supported to understand key contemporary issues that influence health, social care, and the wellbeing of individuals and communities – a topic of global significance.
Across all modules, the inclusion of formative work will support you with your learning.
Overall, this degree combines academic rigour with practical experience.
You'll have the opportunity to test your new knowledge and skills in a community setting and identify strategies/interventions for people with a variety of organisations.
The Year 2 placement may help you develop and understand the application of research methods and ways to improve practice in health and social care.
A typical week for you will include workshops, seminars, blended learning, group work, and meeting with supervisors at each level of your degree.
You'll also take part in computer-based learning using specific social research software and statistical programmes for surveys and questionnaires such as SPSS, and software for interviewing such as NVivo.
Your progress will be assessed through traditional essays, but also through innovative assessments (module dependent) which aid your employability skills.
These may include research and organisational reports, portfolios, source reports, e-resources such as blogs and podcasts, presentations, reports for global bodies and organisations, and community studies.
You'll be allocated a personal tutor who will offer one-to-one support.
The University supports students with opportunities for internships and volunteering.
In Year 1, we integrate support to develop your academic skills in writing university-level assignments, and in Year 2, you develop your practice further across the modules.
We also integrate input from the Centre for Graduate Prospects and Work Integrated Learning.
In Year 3, we help to prepare you for graduate employment with opportunities to learn about graduate jobs and postgraduate study.
Alongside this, we encourage you to gain the Sunderland Professional Award (SuPA) , which is an extra qualification you can gain to boost your credentials and show employers your extracurricular experience.
Part-time students study the same Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society course as full-time students, but over a longer period of time.
If you study this course on a part-time basis, you'll typically complete 60 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
You'll be studying alongside full-time students.
Reasonable adjustments to teaching and assessments will be made for students who hold a current University of Sunderland Support Plan (in line with their stated entitlements and/or accommodations).
Gain an introduction to the academic literacy practices required to perform successfully at university to support your academic transition into higher education.
Take opportunities to reflect on your personal and professional understanding of learning in higher education.
Become an active, independent learner who can identify appropriate approaches to study and develop academic skills, competencies, qualities, and competencies expected of students of Childhood Studies and Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society.
Explore the central concerns of health and social care knowledge, topics, issues, and service users from the origins of the Welfare State through to contemporary society.
Be supported and encouraged to explore the complexities of what we mean by health and how inequalities in health are endemic while gaining a true understanding of the place of social care.
Consider the role that biology, psychology, and sociology may play in inherent individual behaviour, to understand the complexities of individual and collective behaviour in contemporary society.
Learn how to interpret and apply these theoretical perspectives to specific issues within different areas of social sciences.
Explore theories around ethics and care and apply these to real-life case studies for health and social care professionals who work with vulnerable adults and children.
Begin to develop your knowledge around the principles of ethics and safeguarding for all in a professional capacity.
Learn through active collaboration, using problem-based learning to contribute to understanding real-life problems.
Spend time in a community setting and identify strategies/interventions working with different groups of people.
Develop your understanding of how theory and practice are linked and gain transferrable skills for professional practice such as teamwork, problem-solving, and communication.
Develop an understanding of the range of approaches to research and the theoretical, ethical, and practical considerations that go into designing, conducting, and disseminating good quality research in health and social care.
Prepare for the independent research you will conduct in your level 6 dissertation.
Study the concepts, theories, and models underpinning contemporary health promotion and lifestyle behaviour change.
Examine biopsychological theoretical approaches, values, and beliefs in relation to the application of models of health promotion and behaviour change.
Explore significant critical periods in health and illness from before birth, through childbirth, early years, childhood, youth, and into adult years.
Examine themes appropriate to experience during these times of life and how they relate to social power, ending with issues of death, dying, and bereavement.
Explore the importance of communication skills in health and social care practice and settings.
Reflect on and develop your own communication skills in both your personal and professional lives.
Learn about how communication is used inside and outside of therapeutic settings to support wellbeing.
Explore different theoretical approaches to counselling and counselling skills.
Enhance your critical thinking through investigating a dissertation subject in depth and consolidate prior learning.
Advance your research skills by conducting an empirical or non-empirical study relating to your degree.
Develop specialist knowledge of theoretical perspectives, conducting independent research and project management.
Enhance your ability to work independently, communicate complex information, analyse data, and learn how to structure, organise and format a dissertation.
Align your dissertation topic to the profession you wish to pursue.
Examine and critique the biopsychosocial model of health and illness through the exploration of Somatisation and Somatic Symptom Disorder (SSD).
Focus on related health conditions such as PTSD, depressive disorders such as bipolar depressive disorder, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome/Myalgia Encephalomyelitis, and insomnia.
Critically explore the impact affecting social, emotional, and behavioural issues.
Engage in critical debate of key issues in community practice in relation to personal health and wellbeing, human development, and social justice.
Clarify the ways in which individuals and social structures interact to influence psychological and social wellbeing and distress.
Examine how to influence practice and policy to dismantle or disrupt societal barriers that create psychosocial damaging practices and contexts.
Critically explore national and global challenging health and social care problems facing us today and examine the social causes behind them.
Examine complex case studies such as the rising number of mental health rates, including the polar extremes of eating disorders and the public health risk of obesity on the other, pandemics and communicable diseases, wealth and poverty inequalities, ageing societies, and dementia.
Analyse how we can tackle these issues via policy and political debate, both now and in the future.
Our BSc (Hons) Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society graduates work with a variety of service user groups in areas such as mental health, domestic abuse, substance abuse, and older people.
They work for organisations such as the NHS, Local Authorities, schools, colleges, and universities, as well as charities or private organisations such as Age UK, MIND, and Turning Point to name a few.
Further study is also a route chosen by many of our graduates.
Some choose professional routes such as nursing, social work, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, counselling, or teaching.
Others choose business and management routes such as human resources, or research degrees such as a PhD.
As a professions-facing course, we have active relationships with a number of local and national organisations in the health and social care sector.
Past speakers have included workers from Children North East, Lifeline, Healthworks, Headlight, and Local Authority Social Workers.
This enables our students to hear from frontline workers, as well as begin to develop professional networks.
As part of your Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree, you’ll have the opportunity to complete a placement that's chosen by you and supported by our placement team and academic staff.
Previous placements have been with organisations such as local hospices, residential care homes, disability support, schools, mental health services, drug and alcohol services, the North of England Refugee Service, and Age UK.
We encourage our students to actively seek out CV-enhancing employment and volunteering opportunities with local organisations throughout their Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree.
Many of these build relationships that are formed through students completing placements and continuing to work with organisations after graduation.
Many of our Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society students have published their first class degree work on our Social Sciences blog .
The University of Sunderland’s Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) combines original academic research with practice-based collaborations and outreach activities, often working directly with practitioners, policymakers, and front-line delivery staff regionally, nationally, and internationally.
The mission of CASS reflects that of the University's aim as a civic university: to take an active interest in the social issues that affect the region and beyond by engaging in research and practice-based collaborations that aim to improve living conditions, address inequalities and social exclusion, and promote social justice.
Currently, our research focuses around three strands: children, young people and families; communities, health and social exclusion; and crime, victims and social justice.
CASS regularly hosts visiting speakers and holds events that you will be invited to.
This can be an excellent way to learn from the real-life experience of experts in the field who already have a strong track record in sociological and social policy related social research.
We have a broad range of students who come to study for our Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree at Sunderland.
These include young people straight out of school or college, mature students with work experience in health and social care sectors, young people who have experience of the care system, parents and carers, as well as international students with a range of experience.
Overall, this leads to diverse and dynamic cohorts who can share different experiences and knowledge with each other.
We acknowledge that many of our students will continue to work throughout their studies and we anticipate our degree structure enables a certain amount of flexibility to help students to maintain both.
Develop your skills and gain a thorough understanding of health and social care with our two-year foundation degree route .
The course allows you to study at our partner college, East Durham College, and combines academic study with work-based learning.
Upon completion of the Health and Social Care foundation degree, you'll have the opportunity to 'top-up' to a full undergraduate honours degree.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/undergraduate-education-studies:
Explore the world of education.
Understand the history and socio-cultural issues of modern pedagogy.
Develop an exciting career in a fascinating field.
The BA (Hons) Education Studies will give you a detailed understanding of the principles of education, and its systems and structures.
You'll critically explore all phases of education, from early years to adult learning, engaging with concepts that impact education such as social justice, neurodiversity, curriculum design, globalisation, and technological and political influences.
An education studies degree is a great option for anyone interested in working in the education sector in a multi or interdisciplinary way, or as preparation for a formal teaching qualification.
Roles this course will prepare you for could include:
Placements are an essential part of the course, where you'll gain hands-on experience in preparation for a successful career in the education sector.
You'll have the chance to discover your passion and if you want to continue training and become a teacher when you graduate, or continue to master's level in education, you'll be guaranteed an interview at the University of Sunderland.
The BA (Hons) Education Studies degree is taught via small group work, workshops, lectures, tutorials, computer-based learning, presentations and independent learning.
Your progress will be assessed with essays, reports, group work, seminar presentations and self-evaluation.
Throughout the course you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
There is also a part-time version of the course available, which is more suitable for applicants who already have the relevant qualifications and work experience.
Trace the evolution of education aims, policies and practices from pre-history right through to the current day.
Engage in active debate and inquiry around the major points of development through the ages and their effects upon our education system as it is today in the UK.
Gain an introduction to the philosophy of education.
Engage in weekly philosophical debates to develop skills and techniques for practising philosophical debates, enquiry and critical thinking.
Explore a range of philosophical ideas in education and analyse the arguments underpinning them, confidently articulating your own position.
Develop an understanding of sociocultural issues and their impact on education.
Learn how to explain key sociological theory underpinning education.
Explore the public schooling system and the expansion of continuing education and learning.
Draw upon the theories and studies from sociologists to gain a deeper awareness of social forces and the intersectionality of them in impacting upon our experiences.
Learn about the nature and psychology of learning, both in children and adults.
Consider how learning might take place and how we might gauge what has been learnt.
Examine and evaluate different contexts for learning and consider the pedagogical and psychological factors that might impact upon the teaching and learning processes.
Plan, facilitate and analyse an educational intervention whilst reflecting upon the experience and evaluating the impact of learning with a theoretical underpinning.
Gain an understanding of how policy and practice impacts on the education and care of children, young people, and adults with special educational needs and/or disabilities in a neurodiverse society.
Explore the legislative framework and discuss the processes of identification, assessment, and intervention.
Critically analyse the role of the key agencies of health, education, and care.
Consider the SEND codes of practice in depth and the implications within a variety of learning contexts, such as early years, schools, colleges, universities, and workplaces.
Explore the skills and techniques required to plan and conduct small scale research projects within an educational context.
Further prepare yourself in the planning of your own research within your final year of study.
Examine the nature of the research process and develop an awareness of the merits and demerits of both qualitative and quantitative research.
Undertake a placement from a wide range of professional educational environments.
Develop an array of transferrable skills to enhance your future career prospects and opportunities.
Share your subject knowledge to demonstrate a range of key organisational, communication, interpersonal, reflective, and critical thinking skills.
Spend a minimum of 40 hours engaging in voluntary career-related experiences.
Investigate the nature of mathematics and how it is viewed by society.
Develop your own subject knowledge and evaluate appropriate pedagogies to support teaching and learning in mathematics.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of the impact mathematics can have on different contexts.
Learn how to assess areas within the mathematics curriculum, including statutory assessment requirements.
Investigate the nature of English and how it is viewed by society.
Develop your own subject knowledge and evaluate appropriate pedagogies to support teaching and learning in English.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of how the impact literacy can have on different contexts.
Learn how to assess areas within the English curriculum, including statutory assessment requirements.
Revisit the aims of education and consider the current and future needs of society, as well as the role education plays in this.
Gain an understanding of how in an ever-changing world, education is challenged to keep pace, be responsive and adapt to the needs of the individual and the society.
Develop your professional skills of problem solving, innovation and autonomy.
Undertake a self-initiated project in line with your subject interests and career aspirations.
Seek out and create an appropriate solution following a distinct and rigorous process of design.
Gain skills particularly relevant to curriculum design, resource development and solution focused practice in education.
Examine a specific area of educational research that is of interest to your studies and future career goals.
Demonstrate a critical appreciation for your chosen educational issue by conducting, analysing, evaluating, and communicating your independent research dissertation.
Equip yourself to study at postgraduate level or to successfully gain employment at more senior levels within your current or aspired employment.
Explore the nature of leadership and change management in a range of educational contexts both in the UK and abroad, including psychological, political, and practical aspects.
Raise your awareness of your professional responsibility as an educator and clearly identify your role as leader within the profession.
Gain a deeper understanding of how your approach to professional practice can affect others and how others can affect your professional practice.
Investigate the moral life of educational organisations and critically evaluate the values that underpin their judgements and practice.
Identify dominant ethical frameworks underpinning the complexity of decision making in education and apply these to your own thinking.
Explore ethical theories such as the morality of religion, the utilitarian theory, obligation or duty, promoting virtue, and whether caring for one another should be our overriding concern in education.
If you’re interested in pursuing a career in education but you’re still undecided about the area you’d like to specialise in, or you’re already working as an educator and want to progress within your field, you might want to consider a degree in education studies.
Find out more about our education studies degrees
The following qualifications are also accepted for this course: Qualified Teacher Status A Certificate in Education (Cert Ed) A Professional Certificate of Education (PGCE) A Foundation Degree.
If you don’t have the necessary academic qualifications, but you have relevant work experience or qualifications, you may still be eligible.
You must have a Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) check before you can start this course.
The BA (Hons) Education Studies degree prepares you for a career in many different aspects of the education system.
These include informal and vocational learning, care, training, professional development, and curriculum development.
The course will help you build your research skills, problem-solving abilities, and critical thinking, all important transferable skills useful in a range of careers.
Please note, this course doesn't qualify you as a teacher.
However, if you do decide to become a teacher once you've completed your degree, you'll be guaranteed an interview for one of our PGCE courses at the University of Sunderland.
Discover more about the skills you'll gain from your degree, opportunities whilst studying and what kind of careers you can look forward to when you graduate.
Read more about reasons to study education studies

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/undergraduate-criminology:
Understand the causes of crime and how society responds to it.
Investigate current issues, debates, and trends surrounding crime and the criminal justice system.
Gain real-world experience volunteering in roles within the criminal justice system and graduate with a qualification in criminology.
What makes an act a crime?
Who is a criminal?
Why do people commit crime?
How do they stop offending?
What makes someone vulnerable to victimisation?
Studying on the BSc (Hons) Criminology course will allow you to explore the key issues and debates around crime and victimisation in society today, covering topical and dynamic content, and reflecting current issues, policy and practice within the criminal justice system.
You'll understand the causes and consequences of crime and how we manage and respond to it as a society.
We provide extensive opportunities for you to volunteer and gain career-relevant experience to ensure you graduate with the transferable skills, broad knowledge-base, and critical awareness that studying for a criminology degree provides.
You'll take part in continuous training to become a social researcher – which is a valuable extra skill to have for future employment.
If you want to work with some of the most vulnerable and dangerous people in society, we'll help to equip you with the skills to do it.
We recognise criminology is a diverse area of study, so we offer you the opportunity to choose from three strands when it comes to your optional modules: justice, human rights and vulnerability, and violence.
This will give you the flexibility to align your module choices to your chosen career pathway.
A typical week studying for the BSc (Hons) Criminology degree will include a range of lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, computer-based learning, and independent study.
You'll be assessed by methods such as written coursework, essays, research projects, and presentations.
Throughout your studies, you'll have a designated personal tutor and one-to-one support from academic staff at the University to help you develop your skills and get the best out of your assignments.
If you choose to study this criminology course part-time, you'll study the same course as full-time students over a longer period of time.
You'll typically complete 40-80 credits a year rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All our modules are taught during the day and you'll be studying alongside full-time students.
BSc (Hons) Criminology is a flexible degree which gives you the opportunity to specialise in the areas which interest you the most.
In addition to a broad range of Criminology modules, you can choose from options in Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society , which is our sister course.
In this module, you’ll explore criminology as a discipline within the social sciences, including its emergence, impact, and role in your understanding of criminal justice.
You’ll gain an appreciation of ‘rational’ understandings of crime and deviance and how these are created, whilst examining how social, cultural, and historical factors may shape this.
You’ll also enhance your knowledge of criminological theory and gain an introduction to how gender, race, disability, age, and social class can impact understandings and experiences in relation to crime, deviance, and victimisation.
This module introduces criminal justice agencies, their role in administering justice, and the rationale behind their practices.
You’ll discuss the penal philosophies that underpin punishment in criminal justice and gain awareness of different models of justice and their role in ensuring miscarriages of justice are avoided.
You’ll build the solid foundations needed to enter a profession in criminal justice; enhancing your historical knowledge of criminal legislation, discussing the rise and fall of criminal justice agencies, and debating current controversies in the England and Wales criminal justice system.
This module has been designed to develop your research and study-based skills, preparing you to become a criminological researcher in years 2 and 3.
You’ll gain an introduction to social research methods, focusing on criminology as a discipline, allowing you to expand your knowledge and understanding of the people, spaces, and situations of interest.
You’ll learn about the initial stages of planning research including research philosophies, ethical considerations, drafting methodologies, crafting literature reviews, and producing a research proposal.
You’ll explore the development of victimology and the relationship between victims of crime and conceptualisations of justice.
You’ll also consider, in depth, the changing position of victims within wider social contexts and the influence of policy, politics, and the victims’ rights movement on the criminal justice system.
Throughout the module, you’ll have the chance to understand the key theoretical perspectives and gain confidence applying these to case studies.
You’ll investigate the role of the media in court outcomes and expand your knowledge of victim-focused responses to crime.
The ability to understand the intersections of social and structural inequalities, vulnerabilities, and victimhood are essential for careers in social work, the criminal justice system, policing, and third sector service provision, making this module suitable for those interested in these pathways.
This module offers an interdisciplinary exploration of the complex interplay between crime, inequality, and justice within contemporary societies.
You’ll explore how societal norms, values, and power structures contribute to the definition and construction of criminal behaviour.
You’ll also develop a critical understanding of theoretical frameworks that will enable you to conduct research into social inequalities in relation to crime and the human rights of those affected.
The module will help you gain qualitative and quantitative research skills to examine problems in society and learn about the role of the criminal justice system, social policy, and other institutions in perpetuating or mitigating social inequalities.
You’ll conduct research into the experiences and impacts of inequality upon specific groups, such as gender identities, ethnic minorities, sexual orientation, religion, or social class.
Understanding how inequalities intersect is essential for those working in forward-facing professions.
In this module, you’ll explore the dominant theoretical perspectives and issues regarding the study of crime, deviance, and justice in the 20th century.
You’ll interpret and evaluate how criminological approaches to criminality, deviance, and notions of rights and wrongs have been contested within the discipline and debated within socio-political culture more generally.
You’ll develop and apply your knowledge of competing theorisations of equal justice, subcultural deviance, rational choice, criminalisation, human rights, and the social construction of criminality.
This module will help you enhance your knowledge around theory and practice of research methods in social science.
This involves techniques of manual data analysis of quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods of datasets and building research skills using the appropriate software.
You’ll move away from the sole use of existing datasets to complete your analyses and conduct a piece of research investigating an aspect of contemporary criminal justice.
You’ll engage with key philosophies of punishment such as rehabilitation and alternative discourses like risk management in order to evaluate criminal justice legislation and subsequent policies and practices of the probation and prison services in England and Wales.
You’ll gain an understanding of how social and political climates influence, and analyse the implications of rehabilitation and risk management focused policies and practices for offending behaviours and society.
In this module, you’ll engage with concepts and theories of gender and patriarchy to make sense of domestic violence in intimate relationships.
You’ll comprehend how theories of gender and patriarchy construct ‘love’ in ways which produce inequalities and power in intimate relationships.
You’ll also analyse the underpinning models of criminal justice in England and Wales to make sense of how this system works in patriarchal society to understand outcomes for domestic violence offenders and victims.
You’ll evaluate contemporary research including key theoretical frameworks to analyse how domestic violence is perpetuated.
This module will allow you to examine the complex relationship between international human rights, criminal justice systems, and the role of the state.
You’ll discover why and when human rights were written into international policy and the impact this has had, or not, on the prevention of international human rights abuses.
To do this, you’ll draw on various case studies and examples of international crimes against humanity, undertaking an investigation into the geopolitical nature of each case to uncover causes and effects.
You’ll explore possible examples of human rights abuses such as genocide, sexual violence, war crimes, and torture, as well as examine the role of intergovernmental organisations and non-governmental organisations and how they respond to global crimes against humanity.
You’ll develop a critical understanding of theoretical frameworks and apply these to real-world scenarios, fostering a deep understanding of human rights, crime, harm, justice, and the state.
In this module, you’ll explore new forms of crime and harm in contemporary society and develop a cutting-edge theoretical understanding of how these can be explained.
You’ll analyse recent threats, current dangers, present risks, and the role of the state and big corporations in manufacturing these.
You’ll then locate your knowledge of criminology in a global context and reimagine the futures of crime, harm, rights, wrongs, and crime control.
You’ll have the opportunity to engage in independent and in-depth research in criminology, building on foundational knowledge acquired in earlier modules.
You’ll obtain advanced analytical and critical research skills to investigate a specific topic in relation to criminology.
This will give you the chance to develop a specialism that relates to your interests and the profession you wish to pursue.
You’ll also have the opportunity to complete research around a placement relevant to your research interests, where feasible.
This module will allow you to develop an understanding of the social and individualised nature of the desistance process, learning how people desist from committing crime, what influences their decision to change, and how society and the criminal justice system can help people stop offending.
You’ll gain critical analysis skills through an investigation of the social, economic, and political barriers people may face as they try to stop offending.
You’ll investigate the role of the individual in desisting from committing crime, as well as the impact of factors beyond the individual, including how different methods of support can help offenders successfully desist from committing crime.
The module will be particularly useful for those who wish to work with an support offenders and ex-offenders.
You’ll critically engage with the concepts and theories that attempt to make sense of violence and abuse, both public and private.
The module explores the nature of violence and abuse, how it’s constructed and why it occurs, and the spaces in which it’s perpetrated.
You’ll learn how types of violence such as femicide, sex crimes, homicide, and intimate violence can become constructed, embedded, and normalised within society.
Dominant ways of addressing violence will be explored through an in-depth analysis of criminal justice agencies responding to such violence in England and Wales.
You’ll critically evaluate how systems work to assess and manage outcomes for both victims and perpetrators, including government strategies, legislative, statutory, and third sector responses pertinent to current risk policy and practice guidelines of such agencies.
Having this critical awareness of violence will equip you with the knowledge to address such issues in practice.
In this module, you’ll analyse the origins of stigma, ‘othering’, and vulnerability in relation to criminalisation and persecution.
You’ll evaluate the role that legal regulation, social policy, media representations, popular culture, and the criminal justice system play in the perpetuation of inequality and stigma.
You’ll then reflect on intersectional and global perspectives to gain a comprehensive understanding of why some groups are more vulnerable to criminalisation than others.
You’ll apply your theoretical knowledge to case study examples of stigma and criminalisation and consider what could be done to effect change and promote equality.
You'll be based at Wearside View, situated on the award-winning St Peter's riverside campus.
The location benefits from dedicated library services and has superb transport links with the city centre and City Campus.
The BSc (Hons) Criminology degree creates a number of career options and you'll graduate ready to work in a range of employment settings due to the transferable skills and critical awareness studying criminology provides.
Your skills in analysing data, undertaking research, and developing strong arguments will be highly valued by many employers.
Previous graduates of our criminology course now work in various roles within and beyond the criminal justice sector, such as policing, probation, youth justice, fields of education, working with vulnerable adults, victim support, and roles within the government.
Many of our graduates also choose to continue their studies at master's and PhD level.
We have strong links with a number of organisations which offer placements and voluntary work opportunities during this criminology course, including Northumbria Police, the probation service, HM Prison Service, youth offender teams, community rehabilitation companies, criminal court, and victim support agencies.
This gives you the opportunity to gain valuable experience in an area you're interested in which will help you in your career once you graduate.
You can also choose to incorporate an 84-hour work placement into your criminology degree.
You'll have the opportunity to work with criminal justice agencies or an organisation which supports people who are at risk of offending or who have been in contact with a criminal justice agency.
Examples include Shelter, Campus Police, Changing Lives, NEPACS, NERAF and Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue, and the Prince's Trust programme.
Many of our students remain with their organisation to continue their volunteer work, or in some cases, move into paid roles once their placements finish.
Placements are an excellent way to gain real-world experience which can help you decide which career path to take and whether a particular job role is for you.
We're incredibly proud to have founded the Northumbria Local Appropriate Adult Scheme (NLAAS) in a unique partnership with the Police and Crime Commissioner and Northumbria Police.
The scheme is the first of its kind in the country and moves to address a serious shortage of appropriate adults in the region.
You'll be trained under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) 1984 to provide a 24-hour volunteer service across the Northumbria Police force area.
As a volunteer, you'll offer assistance, advice, and emotional support throughout a person's time in police custody.
Taking part in the scheme not only gives you the opportunity to gain real-world experience, but also enables you to undertake a professional Level 2 accreditation in working as an appropriate adult with vulnerable adults and juveniles.
Currently our research focuses around three strands: children, young people and families; communities, health and social exclusion; and crime, victims and social justice.
This can be an excellent way to learn from the real-life experience of experts in the field who already have a strong track record in sociological and social policy-related social research.
Contact the Student Helpline for further information about studying at the University of Sunderland.
Telephone: 0191 515 3000
Email: student.helpline@sunderland.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/professional-policing:
Every aspect of the new training has been created by the College of Policing, working with forces and serving police officers.
After your Foundation Year, you can progress on to our BSc (Hons) Professional Policing course and can choose to continue on either our traditional three-year route or two-year accelerated route, a fast track option to your career in policing.
Our four-year route incorporates a special Foundation Year to help you gain the essential study skills and subject knowledge needed for an honours degree.
The Social Sciences Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
This module will give you an introduction to social theories, examining wider research on the impact they have on key social structures, institutions and social forces which influence and shape our views of the modern world.
A key focus will be to allow you to gain confidence when discussing social theory.
Take a multidisciplinary approach to human rights abuses and violations across the globe, including how they’ve developed and how they can be combated, and to what extent.
You’ll discuss the historical and philosophical development of human rights as a concept and how these ideas spread due to global frameworks, networks, and international organisations.
Explore topics such as criminological theory, defining and measuring crime, trends in crime and victimisation, policing by consent, law enforcement agencies, the structure of the police force, policing reform, and evidence-based policing.
Gain an introduction to criminal justice and social divisions such as class, gender, race and age in criminal justice.
Undertake a significant evidence-based research project while evaluating options, problem-solving and forming solutions.
The annual fee for this course is £5,760 if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
The fee for your first year of study for 2025/26 will be £5,760.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-health-wellbeing-care:
This is a four-year version of our popular BSc (Hons) Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society course with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Gain a well-respected qualification to open doors in the field.
You will also take part in computer-based learning using specific social research software and statistical programmes for surveys and questionnaires such as SPSS, and software for interviewing such as NVivo.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will offer one-to-one support.
We also integrate inputs from the Centre for Graduate Prospects and Work Integrated Learning.
Alongside this, we encourage you to gain the Sunderland Professional Award (SuPA), which is an extra qualification you can gain to boost your credentials and show employers your extra-curricular experience.
If you study this course on a part-time basis, you will typically complete 60 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
The Society and Education Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
In this module, you'll learn about childhood and how people grow and live in society.
We’ll look at how people see the world, how they treat each other, and why fairness is important.
You’ll learn how things like race, gender, and class can affect a person’s life.
You’ll explore what it means to be a child, how schools and communities help children, and why some people are healthier than others.
You’ll also learn how we can care for people and the planet now and in the future.
Learn about acts, policies, duties, and guidance when working with children and how this affects real-life situations.
You'll explore interdisciplinary working, how to deal with challenging behaviour, and how to communicate in a professional way.
You’ll also think about your own work and improve by reflecting on what you’ve done.
This enables us to consider making you an offer if you're perhaps a mature student who has been out of education for a period of time, or you've gained significant knowledge and skills through employment rather than traditional education.
The annual fee for this course is £9,535.
Undergraduate fees are set according to rules from the Government in line with forecast inflation.
If you're a full-time UK student, you may be eligible to receive financial support to cover your fee and maintenance loan for the full four years.
If you're not sure whether you qualify as a UK, EU or international student, find out more in our Help and Advice article .
As part of your Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree, you’ll have the opportunity to complete a placement that is chosen by you and supported by our placement team and academic staff.
Many of our Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society students have published their first class degree work on our Social Sciences Blog .
Check out their excellent assignments.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-education-studies:
The BA (Hons) Education Studies with Integrated Foundation Year will give you a detailed understanding of the principles of education and its systems and structures.
You'll critically explore all phases of education from a range of historical, philosophical, sociological, and psychological perspectives.
An education studies degree is a great option for anyone who's interested in working in the education sector but may be unsure which career route they would like to take.
You'll have the chance to discover your passion throughout the course and if you want to continue training and become a teacher when you graduate, you'll be guaranteed an interview for a PGCE degree at the University of Sunderland.
Placements are an essential part of the course, which will allow you to gain hands-on experience in preparation for a successful career in the education sector.
The Society and Education Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
The annual fee for this course is £5,760.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-criminology:
You will be assessed by methods such as written coursework, essays, research projects, and presentations.
Throughout your studies, you will have a designated personal tutor and one-to-one support from academic staff at the University to help you develop your skills and get the best out of your assignments.
If you choose to study this criminology course part-time, you will study the same course as full-time students over a longer period of time.
You will typically complete 40-80 credits a year rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All our modules are taught during the day and you will be studying alongside full-time students.
The BSc (Hons) Criminology degree creates a number of career options and you will graduate ready to work in a range of employment settings due to the transferable skills and critical awareness studying criminology provides.
We are incredibly proud to have founded the Northumbria Local Appropriate Adult Scheme (NLAAS) in a unique partnership with the Police and Crime Commissioner and Northumbria Police.
You will be trained under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) 1984 to provide a 24-hour volunteer service across the Northumbria Police force area.
As a volunteer, you will offer assistance, advice, and emotional support throughout a person's time in police custody.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-childhood-studies:
Help give children the best start in life.
Qualify for a lifelong career in a fulfilling field.
Discover new abilities and capacities you didn't know you had.
If you're interested in a career engaging with families, children and their communities, the BA (Hons) Childhood Studies degree will provide you with skills, knowledge and understanding in a range of subject areas that combine to form childhood studies.
You'll learn about child development, children's needs, and the historical, social, and cultural issues that impact their lives.
You'll also develop your knowledge and understanding of the child as an individual and the position of the child in society and family.
You'll have the opportunity to register on an exciting pathway during your first semester of this childhood studies degree: Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies.
This will allow you to further demonstrate your commitment to working with children as you'll complete relevant placements and a portfolio of evidence to showcase your skills, strengthening your CV.
The BA (Hons) Childhood Studies degree can lead to a range of careers in children's services.
Many of our graduates go on to work in health, social care, education, childcare, charities, and voluntary organisations, while many go on to study postgraduate courses such as the PGCE Primary Education , MA Social Work , MA Childhood and Youth Studies , or MSc Inequality and Society .
Some of our graduates also choose to qualify as teachers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/undergraduate-law:
Take your first step towards a rewarding career in law.
Develop sought-after skills, including commercial awareness, personal integrity and an ethical approach.
Undertake an optional work placement year.
Gain intellectual tools and knowledge to tackle real-world issues in the legal sector.
The LLB (Hons) degree at University of Sunderland Law School provides you with the knowledge and skills which are essential for a career in the legal sector.
Our course not only covers the areas of functioning legal knowledge which are required to prepare you for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination but enables you to practice SQE style questions as part of your studies.
The course also integrates the foundations of legal knowledge which you need to pursue a career as a barrister, as well as developing the skills which are necessary to undertake further academic study, such as a master’s level qualification or a doctorate.
You will learn from a combination of experienced practitioners and research active staff, providing a high level of student support and engaging pedagogical approaches to help you achieve your goals.
In addition to the core and optional modules, you can take part in a range of CV enhancing, staff led extra-curricular activities such as the client interviewing competition, the student negotiation competition, the mooting competition or publication in the Sunderland Student Law Journal; a peer reviewed academic journal.
Join us for our annual student trip to London to see Parliament, the Royal Courts of Justice and the Supreme Court, which will bring to life your study of public law.
You can experience life in legal practice by studying in our Law Clinic or taking our placement module, and network with local practitioners at the events embedded in our careers and employability programme.
You can also build your leadership and organisational skills by joining our Student Law Society.
You’ll be taught by passionate academics who produce ‘internationally excellent’ research.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, group work and e-learning.
We encourage you to develop study skills and carry out independent legal research.
A number of modules incorporate court/tribunal visits, video presentations and visiting speakers.
Assessment methods include research assignments, case studies, problem questions, practical activities, reports and exams.
Undertake an in-depth study of the substantive legal institutions in England and Wales, including the legislative process, delegated legislation, court structure, and the legal profession.
Develop a sound understanding of the purpose and scope of money laundering regulations and their impact on the legal profession.
Apply the key concepts and law you’ve learned to make an accurate and reasoned analysis of appropriate scenarios.
Examine fundamental contractual principles, including freedom, equality, and privity in contract.
Develop a detailed knowledge and understanding of how a contract is formed and what is required by law to constitute a valid contract.
Consider in detail the concept of breach of contract and the remedies which flow from the breach, including the general availability and different types of damages as well as other remedies such as repudiation, rescission, and specific performance.
Gain a foundational understanding of criminal law theory and doctrine and examine the nature of criminal law and criminal courts.
Examine the different actus reus elements required for a crime (conduct, result and circumstances) and the differences between criminal acts and omissions.
Discuss the different levels of culpability in criminal law, and look at the operation of transferred malice, strict liability, and absolute liability.
Examine the theories and principles that provide the framework within which any specific law is legitimized within the United Kingdom.
Investigate the sources of the constitution and how these operate alongside the foundational principles of the UK constitution, such as the Rule of Law, Separation of Powers, and Parliamentary Sovereignty.
Explore the relationship between the British Constitution and the EU, the political and legal aspects of that relationship, and the underlying principles on which the EU was founded, such as the rules and underpinning legality relating to the four freedoms and competition law.
Hone your skills in critical reading and thinking, legal researching, accurate drafting, and time management.
Explore the library resources that are available, both in paper copy and electronically through the legal databases and develop your understanding of legal citation.
Conduct effective legal research and apply this directly to a given problem or topic.
Develop a critical knowledge and understanding of the law and procedure involved in defending at the police station and criminal practice.
Examine the process by which suspects are prosecuted, starting with the requirements for lawful arrest and concluding with an examination of the procedure at sentencing.
Engage in practical tasks such as reviewing custody records, advising prior to, and during, police interviews, and preparing a plea in mitigation.
Gain a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the fundamental tenets of English tort law in their proper, practical context.
Learn the fundamentals of the torts of negligence, occupier’s liability, nuisance, and trespass.
Conduct document reviews and draft internal and external correspondence suitable for practice.
Explore the main principles of property law in England, including the ownership of land, both freehold and leasehold, and the acquisition, protection, and application of any third-party rights in land.
Understand the historical and present significance of land ownership as well as the rights and responsibilities which follow with it.
Analyse legal materials and arguments relating to land law.
Study the fundamental principles of International Criminal Law (ICL) and examine the operation of the International Criminal Courts (ICC).
Examine the substantive offences of ICL as well as potential justifications, defences and impediments to criminality.
Analyse the types of criminal liability under ICL will be considered such as aiding, abetting, ordering, instigating, planning and other inchoate crimes.
Delve into the ways in which civil disputes can be resolved in England and Wales.
Learn more about methods of Alternative Dispute Resolution and consider the advantages and disadvantages of negotiating a settlement when compared to litigating.
Critically analyse the most appropriate course of action to be taken by clients who need to engage with the civil justice system.
Examine evidence at the different stages of a criminal case, including what the evidence is, and the burden and standard of proof.
Consider other aspects of evidence such as the right to silence, character evidence, hearsay, confessions, expert evidence, and unlawfully obtained evidence.
Apply your knowledge of the law of evidence in a practical context.
Apply the knowledge and skills you’ve gained in your academic studies to a real-life work environment.
Develop key professional skills that are sought after by graduate employers.
Explore potential career paths and areas of interest to you.
Study the law that regulates the formation and dissolution of familial relationships, and the law governing parent-child relationships.
Examine the law regulating marriage, civil partnership, cohabitation, and the resolution of disputes arising after a relationship breakdown.
Additionally, explore the law governing parenthood, parental responsibility, and private law disputes involving childcare arrangements.
Analyse complex and changing situations of simulated client matters and identify the appropriate legal strategies.
Evaluate simulated client interviews and practice client interviewing, drafting, presenting, and letter writing.
Engage and collaborate with your peers, law clinic staff, and legal practitioners.
Develop an accurate knowledge and understanding of a substantial range of major concepts, values, principles, and rules relating to the law’s role in society.
Conduct independent research into relevant areas of law using a range of professional research databases and academic texts.
Consider a range of topical legal debates concerning the relationship between law and society, including social welfare, democracy, and equality.
Gain an understanding of the different definitions and conceptions in youth, such as age of criminal responsibility.
You’ll learn the key facets that compromise the youth justice system and critically examine current policy developments.
You’ll also uncover factors such as age and maturity of the offender that determine a youth’s sentence and explore different sentencing options.
Contemplate how societies see youths and demonise crime and possible solutions.
Enhance your organisational and specialist knowledge, capabilities and skills and develop your ability to self-reflect.
Explore career paths you may not have considered and link theory to practice.
Build on the academic and practical work undertaken on the placement stage and examine this further in your final year.
Advance your understanding of the nature and utility of the concept of trust law and of equitable remedies.
Develop your analysis and independent thinking skills and use them to tackle practical problems.
Consider the development of equitable principles, express private trusts, charitable trusts, duties of trustees, the nature and scope of fiduciary obligations, breaches of trust or fiduciary obligation and resulting and constructive trusts.
Conduct in-depth original research and study into an area of law of interest to you.
Analyse the law in a variety of relevant social, economic, commercial, or political contexts.
Produce a written dissertation and undertake independent research in areas of law that have not previously been studied.
Explore the law that governs medical treatment and healthcare in England and Wales.
Critically examine the laws that govern assisted reproduction, research, and experimentation, organ donation, medical negligence, treatment of patients who lack the capacity to consent, and end-of-life care.
Place a particular focus on the ethical issues that arise in the context of medical care.
Develop a critical knowledge and understanding of central tenets of commercial contract law, including agency, insurance, and consumer legislation.
Undertake detailed document review and drafting, learn how to analyse commercial contracts and advise clients as to their obligations and liabilities, and draft standard form contracts suitable for practice.
Examine, at length, the various provisions of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, the Sale of Goods Act 1979, the Consumer Contracts Regulations 2014, and the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Understand the main areas of individual employment law and how employment law in practice affects the working relationship between employers and employees.
Considers issues of unlawful discrimination, including recent law relating to discrimination.
Consider termination of employment with a particular focus on the right not to be unfairly dismissed which is the most common substantive claim heard by employment tribunals.
Gain an introduction to the concepts, principles, institutions, and debates that frame public international law today.
Question the role of international law in international affairs with a focus on modern conflicts and technological advances.
Examine the role and relationships of international organisations and institutions such as the United Nations, the International Court of Justice, and the European Union.
Develop a critical understanding of the legislation applicable to counterterrorism in England and Wales.
Critically explore the legal definition of terrorism, the role of counter-terrorism institutions, proactive counter-terrorism legislation (offences), and reactive counter-terrorism legislation (police powers).
Consider the human rights concerns in relation to counterterrorism, as well as methods of control where prosecution is not a viable option.
Gain a foundational knowledge of the field of Criminology, including a study of crime, those who commit crime, and the criminal justice and penal systems.
Attempt to define crime and justice by examining the theory underpinning it.
Study the individuals and groups involved in the criminal justice system and crime prevention, punishment, and penology.
Develop a systematic understanding of key aspects of the law governing wills and the administration of estates.
Consider what might happen in the event that a will, or part of a will, is invalid.
Learn more about how and when challenges on a will can be made.
Form a foundation for understanding the nature of business from a legal perspective.
Explore the law of business organisations and develop knowledge and skills including the formation and constitution of business organisations, the financing of companies, and the management, administration, and regulation of companies.
Delve into a simulated client file and take your client through the infancy of their business, to partnership, to company formation, and then, through to insolvency.
Work on “live” cases for clients at the Sunderland Student Law Clinic under the supervision of a qualified solicitor.
Interview real-life clients and obtain relevant information about client issues.
Research and accurately identify legal and factual issues and then present reasoned solutions to the client.
Develop an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the law relating to children.
Learn about the concept of children's rights and explore the core legal instruments designed to protect and promote children's rights.
Explore how different areas of law impact children's rights.
Gain a critical understanding of theories and legal frameworks underpinning the most recent technological developments and their impact on the law.
Examine the emerging challenges and possibilities posed by new digital technologies to law and governance in both the public and the private sectors.
Develop an understanding of emerging technologies' legal challenges and opportunities, fostering critical thinking and legal analysis in this rapidly evolving landscape.
Develop an in-depth knowledge and understanding of key concepts and legal principles in immigration and asylum law.
Learn about global migration governance in addition to international, regional and domestic standards.
Explore and critically analyse established and emerging trends in asylum and immigration law.
Please note, optional modules may change.
Sunderland Student Law Clinic provides quality, free legal advice and assistance to local members of the public and start-up businesses.
All work is carried out by students who are supervised by nine qualified solicitors with over 140 years experience between them.
Students can choose to study in Sunderland Student Law Clinic in their final year of their undergraduate studies and all students studying to become a solicitor on our LLM Legal Practice LPC spend at least half a day each week in clinic, meaning that some of our students leave us with two years' live client work experience.
Students can work voluntarily for work experience in Sunderland Student Law Clinic each summer, regardless of their stage of study.
A law degree provides you with the foundation subjects that are required for entry into the legal professions.
But the understanding of legal implications and obligations, combined with the ability to combine this knowledge in practice, is valuable in many parts of the public, private and voluntary sectors.
Employers from different sectors value the skills of clear thinking, logical argument and effective writing and sectors where a degree in law will be beneficial, include, property development, banking and finance, HR or Civil Services.
Sunderland Student Law Clinic provides quality, free legal advice and assistance to local members of the public, start-up businesses and mature businesses in financial difficulty.
All work is carried out by students who are supervised by nine experienced solicitors.
The Law Clinic enables you to:
To enhance your experience of standing up in front of people and delivering a clear argument, we encourage competitions run by the Mooting and Debating Group.
In Year 2 there is an optional ‘Mooting’ module.
It includes an outdoor performance workshop at the coast to engage in activities around voice projection and the power of oral argument.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to enter the CEDR National Client Negotiation Competition, where teams representing UK university law schools compete against each other to find the most effective negotiators.
The winners of each regional final are awarded a one-day negotiation skills training course, giving them even more tools to use as they compete in the final.
The Sunderland Client Interviewing Competition has been running since 2010 and provides students, competing in pairs, with an opportunity to develop the critical skill of client interviewing in a simulated environment.
Coaching is provided by a team of experienced staff.
The competition is sponsored by Womble Bond Dickinson LLP, and winning competitors are awarded a work placement at the firm as their prize, along with the Client Interviewing Shield.
Two students from the Sunderland Law School compete each year in the Client Interviewing Competition for England and Wales.
Be a member of the student advocacy committee, write for Sunderland LawLoops or become an editor of Sunderland's Student Law and Criminology Journal.
Throughout the course, you may also be offered the opportunity to participate in one or more field trips including a trip to London which includes a visit to the Houses of Parliament and the Supreme Court.
The University works with The Essence Centre/Age UK and proudly supports Dementia Friends which provide useful sessions to better understand and support members of the community living with dementia.
Our invitations to guest speakers allow you to listen to people who are already progressing in their legal careers.
Examples of past speakers include graduates from the course who are undertaking the Legal Practice Course or Bar Professional Training Course and others who have now progressed to their training contract.
It’s a useful way to broaden your learning so that you’re prepared not just for exams but for life.
Find out more at our Law, Society and Vulnerable People Research Hub.
You can choose to undertake the 48-week placement year in year 3.
It's an excellent developmental opportunity for you to enhance your organisational and specialist knowledge, capabilities and skills.
These elements are crucial to your course, your final degree classification and career progression.
The focus is on your professional experiences, development, engagement and contribution.
During your placement you will be supported by an allocated Academic Placement Mentor and a Host Supervisor at the placement organisation who will monitor your progress throughout the year.
You'll be supported by the Placement Team in your search for a placement, but you are required to search and organise the placement yourself.
All placements will be subject to interview and need to be agreed by the University.
If you undertake the placement year, you'll then transfer onto LLB (with Placement Year).
Please note, the University cannot guarantee that placements will be available.
Paralegal starting salaries can be between £12,000 and £20,000 a year, increasing up to £25,000 a year with a few years’ experience.
With further experience and qualifications, this can rise to £40,000 a year or more.
Salaries for qualified solicitors range from £25,000 to £70,000.
Partners in large firms or heads of in-house legal departments can earn in excess of £100,000.
Barristers can expect to earn between £73,000 and £210,000 a year (source: National Careers Service).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-law:
Help people and represent companies.
Become a barrister or solicitor.
Graduate and embark on a successful law career.
This Law course will set you on track for a successful career in law and help you develop valuable skills employers look for, including commercial awareness, personal integrity and an ethical approach.
During the course, you’ll study modules such as ‘Higher Education Skills and Competencies’, ‘Criminal Law and Procedure’, ‘Public Law and the Law of the European Union’ and ‘Practical Tort Law’
By the end of the course, you’ll have the intellectual tools and knowledge to tackle real-world issues within the legal sector or within legal departments of organisations.
You'll also have opportunities to present ideas to other students and develop concepts within groups.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, there are ongoing assessments for feedback and consolidating your learning.
The Law Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
The focus of this module is to provide you with an understanding of how law works in the criminal and civil systems and to enhance your academic skills that are specific to studying law at university.
This module will allow you to examine the historical development of contemporary legal issues, providing you with an opportunity to understand the nature of law.
Your knowledge of how law has developed over time will be enhanced, as well as your ability to problem-solve, question, compare, and suggest innovative solutions to today's issues in law.
Identify the critical steps in a property transaction in the context of domestic or commercial transactions or both, and in relation to freehold and leasehold property.
Develop an awareness of the conflicts of interest that may arise when acting for more than one party in a property transaction.
Draft a transfer deed and undertake the pre- and post-completion checks, including how to fulfil obligations to a mortgage lender.
A law degree provides you with the foundation subjects that are required for entry into the legal professions, but the understanding of legal implications and obligations, combined with the ability to combine this knowledge in practice, is valuable in many parts of the public, private and voluntary sectors.
Employers from different sectors value the skills of clear thinking, logical argument and effective writing, and sectors where a degree in law will be beneficial include property development, banking and finance, HR or Civil Services.
All work is carried out by students who are supervised by nine qualified solicitors.
Sunderland Student Law Clinic offers advice and assistance in relation to business matters, consumer disputes, civil disputes, housing, landlord and tenant, intellectual property, wills, powers of attorney and court of protection work.
It's not all hard work: each year there is a 'Great Clinic Bake Off', legal walk and charity quiz night to raise money for good causes and, as a reward for all our hard work, we have the office Christmas party, which is not to be missed!
Paralegals' starting salaries when entering at graduate level can be between £18,000 and £25,000 a year.
With three to five years' experience, this can then rise to between £30,000 and £40,000 a year.
Salaries for qualified solicitors range from £28,000 to £100,000.
Examples of past speakers include graduates of our course who are undertaking their Legal Practice Course or Bar Vocational Course and others who have now progressed to their training contract.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/esports-event-management:
BSc (Hons) Esports Event Management allows you to explore the world of competitive gaming and learn what makes a successful esports game.
You'll delve into the production and management of esports events and develop your understanding of the technologies associated with organising these events.
This degree will allow you to gain the contextual knowledge, experience and skills to flourish within this industry.
It combines theory with practical application and draws heavily from practising esports leaders to cover aspects such as technology, digital innovation, marketing, events, operations and analytics.
as part of the taught curriculum
Specialist equipment
within esports can include event hosting, video editors, and recruitment
across the UK, Europe and worldwide
The BSc (Hons) Esports Event Management course will use a number of different teaching methods including recorded lectures, workshop and seminar sessions, field visits, online learning using CANVAS, 1:1 tutorials, and supervision.
Assessments will usually be written assignments either in essay, report, project, or dissertation format.
Other assessment methods include presentations, blogs/vlogs, and examinations.
Gain an introduction to the nature of the esports ecosystem, including the role of key stakeholders and supporting infrastructures, of which events form a key component.
Explore the esports and events industry, including the historical background and the multidisciplinary nature of the subject.
Examine core concepts and theories used to understand esports events, as well as the esports market and the potential impacts associated with events.
Examine key historic developments spanning the history of gaming culture from the latter end of the 20th century up until the present.
Draw upon case studies, industry reports, and academic developments within the field of games studies.
Explore topics such as evolving business models, narrative and storytelling, play mechanics, games and socialisation, and sites of play.
Build on the relevant knowledge and skills required to produce and deliver an esports event.
Get involved with practical sessions around the event planning process and learn how to stage an esports event in the form of a community tournament.
Explore topics including marketing and promotion for esports events, project management tools and budgeting, and technologies required for esports events.
Explore the concept of digital branding, which is a pivotal feature of digital media and esports.
Gain an understanding of algorithms through broadcast platforms such as Twitch and YouTube to grow your audience and engage directly with fans.
Learn how to create and design a brand and develop your knowledge and understanding of key elements towards unique brands.
Explore different strategies for creating branded content that helps to complement emerging esports practitioners through the production of live broadcast material and short form curated video.
Analyse a range of case studies, industry and academic research, and professional frameworks.
Evaluate examples of good and bad practice with regards to content creation, branding, and promotion, alongside audience engagement techniques.
Plan, design, and create your own relevant content to demonstrate your understanding of the relationships between creator, industry, and audience.
Critically analyse a range of styles and approaches to leadership and evaluate the impact of leadership on team performance.
Discuss the role of team dynamics on performance in esports and analyse challenges associated with managing these.
Explore topics such as esports team culture, team building, strategic leadership, equality and diversity, and future trends and challenges.
Gain an introduction to esports event management, market-based product development, health and safety, marketing and advertising, finance and sponsorship, human resources and volunteering, event appraisal, and practical event planning.
Conceptualise and outline the key elements of the event development process.
Learn how to conduct and critically evaluate the process of planning and hosting an esports event.
Analyse the complexity of esports events through observation and experience.
Critically evaluate the types of participation of a range of specific communities and audiences and apply a range of research methods within an esports context.
Explore topics such as quantitative and qualitative research methods, esports events spectatorship, consumption and consumerism, motivation and behaviour, and infrastructure and facilities.
Take part in a 12-month work placement with an esports or events related company.
Observe and participate in a range of work placement activities to develop technical and practical skills related to esports and event management.
Critically reflect on your experience and evaluate your personal and professional development.
Explore strategic management theories within the context of esports events.
Learn how to articulate and apply the theories, principles, concepts, and analytical techniques of strategic management.
Discuss the expectations of different stakeholders within the industry.
Critically analyse the environmental factors that impact the development of esports events.
Appraise the current business performance of esports events organisations.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of the key concepts and theories of performance analysis in esports.
Develop a systematic understanding of data collection methods and critically analyse a range of performance data for esports and events.
Learn how to clearly and effectively interpret and present outcomes of data analysis.
Develop an understanding of the key wellbeing concepts, theories, and perspectives in the context of esports events.
Explore the systematic knowledge of theories that underpin health and wellbeing in relation to esports events.
Gain the ability to draw critically on models of wellbeing to understand the health impacts of esports events in a global context.
Learn how to produce high-quality written work that’s appropriate for academic and industry audiences.
Undertake a major project that engages with current industry or academic research in the field of esports, which may take the form of a dissertation, conference paper, employer-led project goal, or campaign plan for an event and its promotion.
Attend workshops to identify your area of research interest and refine your ideas into a manageable format.
Examine different kinds of research, including methods of conducting research and methodologies employed within subject-specific and industry-based examples.
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of key theories and concepts relating to ethics and ethical conflicts in the context of gaming, content creation, and live events.
Critically analyse ethical challenges in order to establish best practices for esports practitioners.
Learn how to produce high-quality guidance material that’s transferable across academic and industry audiences.
Our Esports Lab offers cutting-edge facilities designed specifically for BSc (Hons) Esports Events Management students, giving them a dynamic space to design, host, and manage immersive esports events.
Equipped with high-performance gaming PCs, professional gaming chairs, and immersive technology, the lab fosters hands-on learning, enabling students to test their designs and theories in a professional setting while bringing their ideas to life.
Graduating with a degree specialism in Esport Events Management prepares you for a career in a billion-dollar industry that's rapidly growing.
There's a demand for a variety of roles within the industry including recruitment, event management, game development, and video and audio editing.
Throughout your degree, you'll develop a broad set of transferable skills that will equip you for a much wider range of graduate-level employment.
The course involves visits to a range of industry venues and activities.
These trips are a fantastic opportunity to apply the theory you've studied directly to real-life scenarios.
Usually, these visits are local to the North East, national throughout the UK, and international.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/undergraduate-tourism-hospitality-management:
Make the world your oyster.
Gain a solid tourism and hospitality education with a focus on management.
Graduate and launch your career in a thrilling and fast-paced industry.
The content on the BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management course reflects our close links with employers and our teaching emphasises the connections between theories and practice.
A distinctive feature of this course is the core module ‘Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions’, which gives you a fundamental understanding of theories relevant to successful international tourism management.
Field trips are an integral part of the course, and previous destinations have included New York, Paris, Barcelona, and Prague.
You’ll also go on field trips to places within the UK, and we regularly invite industry speakers to come to us in Sunderland.
You’ll be taught by passionate staff who produce world-leading and internationally excellent research.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, tutorials, open and resource based learning, and supervised project and group work.
There's an emphasis on developing independent study skills.
You’ll also have opportunities to present ideas and information to other students and develop concepts and analyses within groups.
Assessment methods include written coursework, projects, presentations, practical exercises, consultancy projects and a major project in your final year.
Explore the fascinating realms of tourism, hospitality, and aviation, and discover how they connect to your future career.
Dive into the essentials: sustainable tourism, niche travel markets, and the forces shaping global travel today.
You’ll investigate what motivates travellers, how supply and demand interact, and how the industry has changed over time.
As you uncover these insights, you'll also sharpen your academic and professional toolkit, building your research, writing, and presentation skills along the way.
Discover how geography, culture, and economics shape tourism across the globe.
You’ll dive into the distinct identities of different regions, exploring how tourism interacts with their social structures, economies, and environments.
Through a combination of theory, case studies, and cutting-edge digital technologies, like virtual reality, you’ll gain a fresh, immersive perspective on the ever-changing tourism industry and its worldwide influence.
Ever wondered what keeps a hotel running seamlessly?
This module takes you behind the scenes of hotel operations, from front desk management to revenue strategies, guest relations, and the latest hospitality technology.
You'll explore how hotels balance efficiency, sustainability, and innovation to deliver exceptional guest experiences while staying competitive in a fast-evolving industry.
What is marketing, and why does it matter worldwide?
This module introduces you to the core principles of marketing and its role in business success.
You’ll explore case studies from different countries to understand how marketing works in global markets.
By the end, you’ll understand the purpose of marketing and how it helps organisations grow, connect with customers, and stay competitive.
Are you ready to challenge the status quo and shape tourism’s future?
Dig into the pressing challenges and opportunities transforming contemporary tourism.
Dive into debates, like cultural authenticity versus over-tourism, and learn how these issues play out globally.
As you investigate, you’ll also explore tourism’s deeper cultural and historical significance.
You’ll practice critical thinking and sharpen your skills in research, analysis, and presentation.
Develop a business-focused mindset and learn how to give expert advice in the tourism industry.
Work on real-world problems where you'll practice skills like researching markets, checking if ideas are realistic, and talking to the people involved.
You'll also learn how to manage a project from start to finish, including writing proposals, collecting information, and creating clear reports and presentations with your findings.
Explore the art and science behind exceptional food experiences.
Start by tracing the history and philosophy of gastronomy.
Learn how culinary traditions and ideas have evolved, before diving into today’s trends: menu design, food aesthetics, presentation techniques, and the fusion of classic and contemporary styles.
You’ll also study food service management principles, understanding how menus are crafted, how taste and presentation influence perception, and how emerging culinary trends shape the restaurant industry.
Are you ready to take charge when uncertainty strikes in aviation?
Unpack the complexities of risk and crisis management in aviation, where economic shifts, political turmoil, environmental threats, and social pressures can collide.
Through case studies and simulations, you’ll build the skills to anticipate threats, craft response plans, and communicate effectively with stakeholders during crises.
Make the most of a 48-week placement with a hospitality, events, aviation or tourism related company and graduate with a degree that involves placement in the title.
Significantly enhance your chances of graduate employment – students taking this route in the past have benefited from greater employability.
Find your placement with support from the University and get assessed in negotiation with your placement provider and placement supervisor.
Ready to explore how tech is revolutionising the visitor economy?
Dive into exciting digital innovations, like AI, robotics, virtual reality and social media strategies to see how tourism, hospitality, events, and aviation are evolving.
You’ll learn how businesses harness these technologies to boost customer engagement, streamline operations, and craft immersive experiences.
Curious how politics, economics, and heritage shape the future of tourism?
Unpack the complex forces behind tourism and leisure development, from global policies to regional planning and sustainable practices.
You’ll explore how socio ‑ political frameworks, heritage conservation, and environmental priorities steer industry trends and shape strategic decisions at local and international levels.
Ever wondered what drives success in today’s global hospitality industry?
Explore the industry’s biggest trends, like eco ‑ friendly practices, personalised guest experiences, smart AI tools, and immersive lodging.
Learn how leading organisations use strategic management to tackle competition, spot new market opportunities, and build growth plans aligned with evolving guest expectations.
What does it take to lead effectively in today’s fast-paced world?
Develop the knowledge and skills necessary to become a strategic leader who inspires collaboration and drives success.
Explore leadership challenges and reflect on your own experiences.
Delve into key theories, both classic and cutting-edge, that shape how leadership works in modern organisations.
Uncover how different leadership strategies can influence a company’s growth, resilience, and long-term success.
You’ll also examine how strong relationships with colleagues, teams, and stakeholders can help you create a more collaborative and high performing environment.
The Student Learning Space is designed for business students, and it includes a boardroom as well as bookable areas to hold meetings and to meet with staff and clients from outside the University.
There are also areas to facilitate group work and collaboration.
If you're unsure whether you qualify as a UK, EU, or international student, or want to r ead more about EU fees and funding, see our Help and Advice article .
The BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management degree reflects our close links with employers, and our teaching emphasises the connections between theories and practice.
Many of our graduates go on to progress in managerial roles within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Job opportunities could include hotel manager, tourism development officer, or resort office manager.
Employers could include hotels, airlines, travel agencies, events organisers, heritage attractions, Local Authorities, and other public sector bodies.
Additionally, you’ll have a broad set of transferable skills that will equip you for a much wider range of graduate-level employment.
The course involves visits to a range of tourism and hospitality venues and initiatives.
You can look at some of our previous field trips here.
The North East in itself is known for it's variety of coastal, countryside and city locations.
We encourage you to undertake a 48-week paid placement between your second and final year to further enhance employability.
It effectively becomes the third year of a four-year course.
You’ll earn an average annual salary of £14,000-£18,000 depending on your location.
Contacts you make during placements can also be valuable for future job offers.
A top-up entry option is available for those who've already successfully completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation degree and wish to progress onto the final year of the honours degree course.
Contact us about how you can get credit for your previous learning and top-up your qualification to a range of degrees with the University of Sunderland via direct entry.
Explore how we ensure you get the most out of your degree
Discover tips from our graduates
Tourism destinations are facing challenges in creating unique and authentic experiences, which are an ever-increasing motivator from more sophisticated travellers with higher expectations.
Learn how augmented reality is being used to enhance tourism experiences and cultural heritage

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/undergraduate-tourism-aviation-management:
Global business and international travel are both areas that are rapidly growing and have a vast range of employment positions available worldwide.
When studying on the Tourism and Aviation Management degree course you will be provided with a blend of both academic and practical insights around how these industries function and you will be equipped with transferrable skills which can prepare you for work in these areas.
Throughout the duration of your studies, you will benefit from field and site visits, experience bespoke guest lectures from industry-based practitioners, you could study abroad or take a placement year with industry and be supported towards developing your employability for work in these industries.
A typical week for you on the BSc (Hons) Tourism and Aviation Management course will include lectures, seminars, study visits.
and group work.
These are supported by a range of guest speakers from diverse academic and industry backgrounds.
Our teaching team are passionate about their subject and produce world-leading research.
Your progress will be assessed by essays, presentations, portfolios of evidence and project work which will help you to build a range of skills in support of employability.
Through a combination of theory, illuminating case studies, and cutting-edge digital technologies, like virtual reality, you’ll gain a fresh, immersive perspective on the ever-changing tourism industry and its worldwide influence.
Aviation is a vital global industry, but its growth comes with environmental challenges.
This module examines the balance between industry expansion and sustainability, exploring the economic, political, and technological factors shaping aviation's future.
You'll assess the environmental impact of air travel, the role of regulations, and the innovations driving greener aviation.
You’ll dive into debates, like cultural authenticity versus overtourism and learn through case studies how these issues play out globally.
Cultivate an entrepreneurial mindset and consultancy expertise tailored for the tourism industry.
Through real-world challenges, you'll put theory into practice by conducting market research, feasibility studies, and stakeholder engagement to design impactful solutions.
Learn to manage projects end-to-end, from proposal writing and data collection to delivering compelling reports and polished presentations.
What happens when a crisis hits industries like aviation?
Explore how businesses identify, prepare for, and respond to unexpected challenges.
From economic and political upheaval to environmental disasters and social backlash, you'll learn how these risks can collide and what it takes to manage them.
You’ll also examine how companies balance social and environmental responsibilities while maintaining secure and resilient operations.
Make the most of a 48-week placement with a hospitality, events, aviation or tourism-related company.
Delve into the heartbeat of aviation operations.
From clever pricing and efficient route planning to seamless passenger service and smart baggage handling.
You’ll uncover how digital tools, data, and strategy come together to optimise schedules, cut delays, and elevate the traveller experience.
Expect immersive case studies and app-based simulations that put you in the decision maker’s seat, helping you shape how airlines and airports run smoothly and profitably.
You’ll find an excellent selection of tourism resources at St Peter’s Library, and you’ll have access to a full-time librarian who is dedicated to the Business and Tourism sections.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) If you feel you already know some of the topics covered in this course, either due to previous learning or from experience of work, then you may not need to study all of the course.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) is the name given to the process of gaining credit towards a qualification because of something you've learnt in the past.
If you're eligible for APL, you won't have to learn the same topic again, so you can be exempt from a module, set of modules, or year of a course.
If you think you may be eligible for APL, please contact the course leader.
If you feel you already know some of the topics covered in this course, either due to previous learning or from experience of work, then you may not need to study all of the course.
Career options are broad as the tourism and aviation industries cover so many potential roles.
The knowledge and skills you'll learn on the course will provide a large range of opportunities including various management roles, airline communications, hospitality facilitators, tourism planning and development, destination marketing, and with hotels, travel agents, public bodies, and international tourism companies.
There are a range of embedded activities on the course including:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/tourism-aviation-management:
This is a four-year version of our BSc (Hons) Tourism and Aviation Management course, with an integrated foundation year.
Cover concept areas including marketing, global tourism, aviation safety and more.
Graduate prepared for a range of related careers.
The world tourism and aviation industries have continued to flourish with increased international travel.
This course will give you both academic and practical insight into these fascinating sectors and will help to prepare you for a range of related careers.
You will experience training with the airline industry as well as a range of field trips which will bring the subject to life.
You will also cover key concept areas including marketing, global tourism, aviation safety and security, the environment and hospitality.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, study visits and group work.
Our teaching team are passionate about their subject and leading academics who produce world-leading research.
The Business and Tourism Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
Engage with the literature and current debates on some of the major current global issues and trends within Business and Tourism in general.
Examples include: wireless communication and technological transformation, universal payment methods, cost of fuel, security/safety and pandemics, political conditions, food security and food waste, rising income inequality, international trade and investment.
Investigate a current global issue related to your degree of study via lectures/seminars, workshops and blended learning activities.
Bridge the gap between Further Education and Higher Education.
Understand the level of work you will be expected to do at University, how to become an independent learner and how to find answers yourself.
Investigate a topic area related to your degree programme.
Projects will vary according to the degree programme of study but typically the formats would include: a review paper, a practical project or analysis of data for a report.
Utilise the lectures and surgeries and gain specialist input into your proposed project.
While the module is based around independent learning, tutors are on hand to guide the process through the use of weekly surgeries.
Learn about the main functions of an organisation, its various functional areas, and the role and importance of management in the effective co-ordination of those functions.
Explore the contemporary global business issues and its impact on international, regional and local market place.
Engage with the relevant literature and current debates in relation to your identified areas.
Understand the importance of the political, economic, social, regulatory, and technological and environmental factors within the aviation industry.
Analyse the environmental challenges affected by the aviation industry, including noise, emissions, and waste management.
Discuss regulatory frameworks, including the influence of global and national aviation organisations, changing societal values, climate change, alternative fuels and carbon neutral growth.
Appreciate the growing importance of the aviation industry in the contemporary global economy.
Develop your understanding of the scale, scope and structure of the aviation industry.
Analyse the key stakeholders, including regulatory bodies, commercial airlines, alliances, airport and terminal services and their roles, as well as the current issues and trends affecting the aviation industry.
Gain a fundamental understanding of theories and models appropriate to tourism and hospitality management.
Analyse definitions, commonalities and distinctions of tourism and hospitality management.
Consider mass and 'niche' products, 'alternative' tourism, transportation, attractions management, National Parks and protected areas, and tourism, society and the environment.
Profile tourism in various regions and destinations, exploring key issues and impacts associated with the development of tourism via a variety of global case studies.
Contextualize the changes and impacts of the tourism phenomenon in destinations beyond the UK.
Use illustrative case studies to differentiate the key issues in global tourism on a global regional basis, including Asia, the Pacific, Europe, the Americas and Africa.
Get an introduction to the concepts and functions of marketing and business in the context of the service sector.
Explore the economics of the service sector, understanding today’s consumer, product development, marketing and business planning, segmentation and research; distribution channels; marketing communication and advertising.
Receive training and practice in a range of learning and information skills relating to the service sector.
Take part in specific workshops to cover information gathering, critical reading, note-taking, essay writing, group work, and written, graphical and verbal presentation.
Develop confidence in taking responsibility for your own learning, be more independent, be a more effective learner and be able to motivate yourself.
Discuss the global security threats, the key health and safety regulations affecting the aviation industry, the employers and employees responsibilities in preventing accidents and incidents, and the acts of terrorism involving civil aviation.
Consider the importance of security awareness and compliance, risk management, risk assessment and accident investigation.
Examine and explain aspects of management application from within different organisational contexts.
Analyse and evaluate current business practice through appropriate data collection methods, including electronic sources.
Derive and formulate feasible, realistic and cogent conclusions and recommendations to specific hospitality, events, aviation or tourism businesses.
Reflect on your own expertise by making an application to these businesses via CV and covering letter.
Explore current, important conceptual and practical issues relating to tourism development and management, and gain theoretical context for contemporary debates.
Focus on critical debates, developments and case-studies of tourism development with information drawn from a range of sources.
Consider media representations of tourism products, motivations and the processes of tourism development, management and marketing.
Gain an understanding of the principles of research design and fieldwork, preparing you for research projects that you will undertake later in your university study.
Discuss the philosophical underpinnings of quantitative and qualitative research methods and enable yourself to undertake ethical research using participant observation and ethnographic methods, interviewing and focus groups, and questionnaire surveys.
Examine the relationship between tourism and culture, particularly cultural tourism in different spatial and social contexts.
Explore topics that include; tourist practice and performance; globalisation and trends in cultural tourism, festivals and events; cultural tourism festivals and events in urban context; cultural tourism, festivals and events in rural contexts; cultural tourism, festivals and events in Europe; cultural tourism festivals and events in the UK; tourism and cultural identities; issues of commodification and authenticity; modernism and postmodernism and tourism the media and popular culture.
Discover the principles and practices of branding for the service sector.
Explore the importance of destination brands and brands for the tourism, hospitality, events, and aviation industries and their experience-related products.
Enhance your understanding of brand management, positioning, and brand image within the service sector context.
Gain awareness and knowledge of some of the HR processes, management and resourcing challenges that can be experienced when dealing and managing employees in industry.
Showcase your current skill level when planning and hosting your own training session – a key area to performance and employment with high levels of investment.
Critically reflect upon your own personal learning experience, professional performance and practice throughout.
Travel overseas on a one-week field visit within Europe – visits in recent years have focused on dark tourism in Prague, Krakow and Berlin.
Get an introduction to the field area from preparatory lectures, before taking part in group visits and group survey work in the assessed task.
Use data collected on the field trip to form the basis of your individual assessed work back in Sunderland.
Produce a tourism development plan for a specified location/area, integrating the breadth of the course content through a practical exercise.
Perform a tourism potential appraisal, propose an appropriate development approach for the area, make outline proposals for appropriate developments there; and devise key themes for a marketing plan for the area.
Your work will be supported by a programme of lectures, group tutorials, guest lectures, site visits, and workshops.
Discuss the business strategies for airlines and airports and their key revenue sources.
Explore airline yield management and financial and economic benchmarking.
Consider the importance of commercial strategies and competition, airtraffic management and aircraft evaluation and fleet planning.
Risks and crises are an inherent part of all businesses, but within the tourism and aviation sectors these aspects are compounded by the uncertainty derived from products, services, and consumers.
In addition, it is common ground that tourism and aviation sectors are susceptible to crises and disasters, characterised by high demand and supply elasticity.
This module allows you to critically analysis risk and crisis management and its integral part of strategic thinking within tourism and aviation companies and organisations.
Optional modules (choose 80 credits):
Consider the impact technological innovations have had for the visitor economy in the areas of tourism, hospitality, events and aviation.
Reflect on the empowerment of consumers through technology, in particular, opportunities provided through social media and mobile technologies.
Learn more about the current digital technologies impacting the visitor economy, such as social media, mobile technologies, augmented and virtual reality, and the concepts of co-creation.
Explore the increasingly important area of food and drink tourism for regional economic development and identity formation.
Examine the importance of food and drink products to the tourist experience and to destination success for those countries and regions closely associated with food and drink.
Analyse the relationship between tourism and gastronomy and examine the direct and indirect advantages and disadvantages to local and regional communities associated with the development of gastronomic tourism and event initiatives.
Prepare yourself for a career in industry as an employee, leader or manager.
Investigate leadership and management styles and approaches as well as researching and debating equality and diversity issues.
Gain a greater understanding of leadership and management challenges which occur every day in the wider world.
Develop your employability and gain an understanding of career pathways in the hospitality, events, aviation and tourism industry.
Investigate work environments and study a number of important topics, such as career planning and pathways, communication and networking, presentation and interview skills and more.
Discover and work towards securing a graduate job role or career.
Explore various theories and principles associated with the management of service quality in tourism, hospitality and events.
Analyse issues in service delivery for the service organization, employees and consumers.
Develop an appropriate model for analysing service quality in a given service organization related to tourism, hospitality or events.
Explore the scope and nature of tourism planning from a political, market, environmental and visitor perspective.
Consider the agency and structure of local, regional, national and international planning organisations alongside the dimensions of planning for tourism in the public and private sector.
Analyse the role of local stakeholders in the planning process in relation to wider strategic models.
Design and implement a research proposal in an area of tourism or aviation management of your choice.
Set aims and objectives, select and implement research methods, conduct a literature review, collect empirical data and analyse appropriately.
Utilise expert supervision to learn research methods, research design and the interpretation of data and its relation to contextual material.
Travel overseas on a one-week field visit, usually outside of Europe – for the past 12 years students have visited New York to research film-induced tourism and dark tourism.
Gain an insight into the characteristics of urban tourism.
Examine the re-discovery of the urban environment as a tourist destination – tourist arrivals in cities are constantly growing and increasingly more research has been undertaken to investigate the phenomenon of urban tourism.
Cover topics that include: Historical background and the development of urban tourism; Tourism as a key to urban regeneration; The demographic, socio-economic and psychographic profile of the urban tourist; The supply side of urban tourism: services, infrastructure and activities; The impacts of tourism in the urban environment; Managing urban tourism; The concept of place-marketing; Trends and developments in urban tourism.
Graduates from our Tourism, Hospitality and Events courses have progressed onto careers in managerial roles within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Our graduates have secured roles such as Hotel Manager, Tourism Development Officer or Resort Office Manager.
Employers include hotels, airlines, travel agencies, events organisers, heritage attractions, Local Authorities and other public sector bodies.
There are a range of embedded activities on the course, including:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-tourism-hospitality-management:
The content on the BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management course reflects our close links with employers, and our teaching emphasises the connections between theories and practice.
Field trips are an integral part of the course, and previous destinations have included New York, Paris, Barcelona and Prague.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, tutorials, open and resource-based learning, and supervised project and group work.
You’ll also have opportunities to present ideas and information to other students and also develop concepts and analyses within groups.
Assessment methods include written coursework, projects, presentations, practical exercises, time-constrained and multiple-choice examinations and the major project in your final year.
Understand the importance of heritage, as well as the various roles heritage plays for tourism activities and destinations.
Explore forms of heritage interpretation, examining the various meanings of heritage.
Reflect on the representation and commodification of heritage for leisure and tourism purposes, often initiated in the context of destination management and regeneration.
Explore the impacts of events and festivals upon local, regional and national economies and upon local communities and society.
Consider the physical, political, social/cultural and economic impacts that events and festivals exert on destinations and host communities.
Use case studies to analyse impacts within local, global and event specific context.
Analyse the meetings and conference industry, explore principles and operational practices of MICE and conceptualize them within the wider contemporary commercial context.
Explore the importance of this industry for the events, tourism and hospitality industry, particularly with focus upon its importance for destination branding.
Use different case studies and examples from around the world to illustrate subject knowledge, including operational aspects such as Human Resource Management, Site and Venue considerations as well as Supply and Demand aspects of MICE.
Conceptualize a gastronomic themed event, develop a business and marketing plan, and reflect on hospitality management using a variety of performance measurement techniques.
Get an introduction to topics that include event conceptualisation, menu development, food and beverage management, marketing and public relations, interior design, legal and health and safety issues and customer service relations.
Take advantage of industry expertise from the hospitality sector through guest lectures, visits to hospitality venues and bespoke workshops.
Gain awareness and knowledge of some of the HR processes, management and resourcing challenges that can be experienced when dealing with and managing employees in industry.
Explore the global trends of the hospitality industry, focusing on contemporary issues that will vary from year to year.
Topics to be included are the impacts of globalization, strategic hospitality management, change management in the hospitality industries, international marketing and branding, global trend analysis, the impact of IT, food and the hospitality industries.
Focus on an area of tourism management of your choice and design and implement a research proposal in this area.
Benefit from expert supervision as well as training in research methods, research design and the interpretation of data and its relation to contextual material.
Analyse the relationship between tourism and gastronomy and examine the direct and indirect advantages and disadvantages to local and regional communities associated with the development of gastronomic tourism and event initiatives
Upon graduation from BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management you’ll have a wealth of career options to explore.
Many of our graduates go on to work in managerial roles within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Job titles include Hotel Manager, Tourism Development Officer or Resort Office Manager.
These visits are local to the North East, national throughout the UK, and international including destinations such as Dublin, Prague, Barcelona and New York.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-hr-management:
The BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management course focuses on the practical skills outlined in the CIPD Professional Map.
Compared to our core Business and Management course , there's a greater focus on how to inspire and develop people effectively.
It concentrates on the acquisition of the skills required to manage the changing HR function including modern individualised contractual employment relationships, often remotely and digitally managed in an authentic, transparent, and ethical manner.
Sunderland Business School prioritises employability across all years of undergraduate degrees.
These help you strengthen the six key essential attributes of being capable, enquiring, creative, enterprising, ethical, and global in outlook necessitated by the world today.
With an innovative mix of experiential learning and knowledge development in terms of the role, function, and influence of managers and leaders in a changing business world, the Business and HR Management course provides you with opportunities for creative, reflexive, innovative, and entrepreneurial skills development in live work environments.
Other learning techniques include company visits, guest speakers, and cutting-edge e-learning technologies.
Assessment methods include narrative reports, e-portfolios, live employer-based consultancy projects, negotiated assessments, case studies, reflective statements, audio journals, posters, digital storyboards, blogs, podcasts, and YouTube videos.
Develop a selection of transferable employability skills through a diverse range of experiences.
Examine the importance of developing your own professional identity.
Place this identity in the context of changing, challenging and dynamic organisations.
Carve out your cognitive and creative problem-solving skills with practice-based experience.
Consider how creative techniques are used to solve problems.
Learn via a unique and creative learning experience.
Gain a critical knowledge base of the contemporary issues in the field of human resource management including equality, diversity, employee wellbeing, reward and engagement.
Debate and critique potential external influences and the impact they have on the role, function and profession of human resource management.
Consider the modern evolution of human resource management from a research and practitioner perspective.
Establish a foundation of knowledge of key standardised HR skills including conflict resolution, discipline, investigation interviewing and negotiation skills.
Understand how these skills can be utilised confidently and pragmatically in dealing with contentious employment issues.
Evaluate your skill set by demonstrating your ability to advise, influence, challenge and support line managers in their people management role.
Working practices have shifted substantially since Covid-19, with more people working from home for all or some of the time.
We’ve seen a fundamental change of business model for some organisations, with a shift to online interaction and distribution and a dispersed workforce.
So will Covid-19 kill traditional workplace innovation?
Find Out More
You'll be based at The Reg Vardy Centre, on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
It’s a modern building with great views of the River Wear, and just a few minutes’ walk from the coast.
Our students graduate with current and sought-after skills and knowledge across all areas of human resource management.
In addition, CIPD-accredited qualifications can significantly enhance your career opportunities.
The employability-focused curriculum of the course has been designed in collaboration with a range of employers including CDC Wealth Management, Caterpillar, Nissan, Network Rail, NCC, NHS, Enterprise Rent a Car, Uplift LP, Sedgefield SSP CIC, Castle Howard, and NRL.
It effectively becomes a third year of a four-year course, and you’ll earn an average salary of £14,000-£18,000 a year depending on your location.
The University supports student-led initiatives that help you gain practical experience of human resource management.
Recently, the business school has launched an HR Society, meeting monthly, comprising staff, students of all levels, (undergraduate to doctoral) local employers, and the local CIPD branch.
It's the perfect opportunity for networking and building relationships with other HR professionals and benefits include HR business mentors, shadowing, and attending north-east employer network meetings.
There's also the general Business Society , which organises events and guest speakers, as well as attending tours of various companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-marketing-management:
Experience a field that now, more than ever, impacts upon everyone’s lives.
Gain the specialist skills and knowledge to prepare yourself for an exciting career in marketing.
Graduate ready for the industry with this professionally accredited course.
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management forms part of our suite of business courses.
Compared to the core Business and Management course, it has a greater focus on skills and knowledge related to marketing, including marketing management, planning and strategy, marketing communications, consumer behaviour, and internet marketing.
The course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and gives you exemption from its first two levels of study and certain modules at the Professional Diploma level.
This course allows for a focus on current trends in business and marketing.
The course focuses on professional and personal development from a range of perspectives addressing elements of ethical, sustainable, responsible, and digital business practices.
In addition, experiential learning elements throughout the course will be shaped by industry and learning will be enhanced through the digital and technological approaches.
The course has a range of employability modules across all years which help you strengthen the six key attributes of being capable, enquiring, creative, enterprising, ethical, and global in outlook.
Throughout the course, the focus is on innovative teaching and learning by doing and reflecting.
One technique is problem-based learning, where you work within a small team to explore issues or decide how to manage a situation.
Our assessment methods often include coursework and are designed to help consolidate learning.
Other methods include assessed case studies and business simulations, presentations, reports, essays, tests, and time-constrained assessments.
Evaluate the critical importance of contextual and environmental analysis and evaluation in marketing in order to gain real insights that guide marketing decisions and strategies.
Understand the transformative forces that are changing and shaping the future of marketing and the wider business.
Analyse customer characteristics and behaviour to enhance marketing value.
Adopt a strategic perspective to branding and explore the role of brand strategy in communicating messages to current and potential stakeholders.
Investigate why building a strong brand is a key objective for organisations in the digital age and as such how they engage with stakeholders is a significant strategic consideration for all brands.
Consider some of the challenges and approaches to branding management and explore how technological transformation impacts upon consumer engagement with brands.
The marketing industry is exciting, fast-paced and always evolving.
As part of this, we've secured accreditation for all our marketing courses by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), but what is a CIM accreditation and why does it matter?
Find out more
This is home to the Sunderland Business School and the St Peter’s Library with thousands of books related to business, marketing and strategy, economics, management and human resources.
This business and marketing management course aims to provide students with opportunities to explore and discover their unique identity and encourage engagement with experiences which will increase self-efficacy and provide tangible evidence of that identity.
Our marketing students graduate with sought-after skills and knowledge across all areas of business and marketing management.
The Sunderland Marketing Hub allows you to work on real-life marketing projects whilst being supported by our expert academic staff.
You'll gain experience working with clients on marketing problems, networking with professional marketers, and presenting solutions to local businesses or organisations.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-financial-management:
The BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management course focuses on the opportunities and challenges confronting businesses with specific focus on cash accounting, longevity, and the relationship between good financial management and business success.
Financial management is an essential part of any successful business and the course incorporates case studies and simulations to improve critical evaluation and decision-making skills, transferable to a range of business and finance professions.
With an innovative mix of experiential learning and knowledge development in terms of the role, function, and influence of managers and leaders in a changing business world, the BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management course provides you with opportunities for creative, reflexive, innovative, and entrepreneurial skills development in live work environments.
These are in addition to a combination of lectures, seminars, debates, tutorials and workshops.
Develop an understanding of how financial managers can influence the growth of their business and identify, measure, and communicate strategic decisions and performance via management accounts.
Undertake two ACCA digital financial courses provided by Sage Group PLC.
Gain a solid foundation in accounting and the financial skills needed for managers.
Establish an understanding of specific competencies in Financial Governance.
Acquire the essential knowledge of these competencies through study and engagement in relevant financial governance topics.
Develop an understanding of the theories, methods and techniques relevant to this field and how to apply such knowledge to real-world scenarios.
The employability-focused curriculum of the Business and Financial Management course has been designed in collaboration with a range of employers including CDC Wealth Management, Caterpillar, Nissan, Network Rail, NCC, NHS, Enterprise Rent a Car, Uplift LP, Sedgefield SSP CIC, Castle Howard, and NRL.
Topping up your existing HND or Foundation Degree will take one year of full-time study and may open up future career options to you depending on your chosen career path.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-accounting-finance:
Get a head start in the process of becoming a qualified accountant.
Undertake a paid 48-week placement and enhance your practical experience.
The BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance course has long been a popular choice because of its excellent career prospects.
The course is so closely tied to real-world professional requirements that, when you've successfully completed it, you'll be exempt from exam papers from professional accounting bodies: the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
If you choose to study part-time, we'll endeavour to ensure you're not on campus for more than two days a week, plus independent study.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, self-directed study, workshops, and case studies.
As part of your active learning, you'll work on problems and issues with the tutor and other students.
Through analysing data and drawing your own conclusions, you’ll explore approaches to different business situations.
Due to the accreditation associated with this course, you'll predominantly be assessed via closed-book written examinations.
Other methods include coursework and narrative reports.
The part-time option for the course is delivered over ten semesters, with no more than two days a week on-campus, plus independent study.
Have you ever wondered how businesses keep track of their money?
How do they know if they're making a profit or spending too much?
This module will help you discover the basics of accounting and how businesses make smart financial choices.
By the end of this module, you'll have a clear understanding of how businesses plan and manage their finances.
You'll gain hands-on experience in creating basic financial reports, such as income statements, and learn to evaluate a company's performance to identify strengths and areas for improvement.
You'll explore practical tools that assist in controlling costs and making informed financial decisions.
These skills are essential for anyone aiming to understand the financial workings of a business and contribute effectively to its success.
Curious about how businesses decide what to sell, how much to charge, or when to expand?
This module will show you how numbers help businesses make these big decisions.
You'll learn how to analyse data to uncover patterns and trends and how to use graphs and charts to tell a story about what’s happening in the market.
You'll also discover how businesses use probability to plan for the future, even when things are uncertain.
We'll dive into why people buy certain products, how prices are set, and what affects supply and demand.
Plus, we'll look at how trade and global markets shape our economy.
Feel confident using numbers to understand business performance and make informed decisions.
In a world that's always changing, businesses must adapt to succeed.
Uncover how companies plan, adjust, and make smart choices globally.
Explore how businesses are organised and managed, and how things like politics, economics, and culture influence their decisions.
Discover problem-solving tools and strategies used by top managers to tackle challenges.
Through debates, teamwork, and interactive sessions, you'll gain hands-on experience in real-world business scenarios.
Stand out to employers by having the confidence to think strategically, solve problems, and contribute to business success in a competitive global market.
Want to understand how businesses follow rules and make fair decisions?
This module helps you understand the laws that guide companies in the UK and around the world.
You'll uncover how businesses are created, what makes contracts valid, and the responsibilities companies have towards their employees and customers.
Explore what happens when companies face financial troubles or legal disputes.
Through real-life examples, you'll see how laws impact everyday business decisions.
With this knowledge, you'll be ready to understand legal challenges and make smart choices in the global business world.
Please note, modules are subject to review.
Want to take your accounting knowledge to the next level and make smart financial decisions?
Learn how to read and understand financial statements, follow global accounting rules, and prepare group accounts.
Explore the double-entry system and why it's important.
Use budgeting, costing, and performance tools to guide real-world decisions.
Grow your skills in problem-solving, teamwork, and critical thinking, which are key for roles in auditing, financial analysis, or management accounting.
Do this and get ready to think like an accountant and act like a business leader.
How do companies find the money to grow and make big decisions without risking everything?
This module introduces you to the world of business finance, showing you how businesses manage their money, make smart investments, and protect themselves from financial risks.
You'll explore different ways businesses get funding – like loans, investors, or savings – and learn how they track and invest their money wisely.
Discover what happens when a business takes a financial risk and how they can reduce it.
Find out why stock markets matter and how they affect businesses.
Through real-world examples, online tools, and expert insights, you'll gain a strong understanding of how money moves in the business world.
Curious about how taxes impact your income or how businesses plan for them?
This module introduces you to the UK tax system, covering income tax, VAT, corporation tax, and inheritance tax.
You'll learn how taxes affect individuals and businesses, and why smart tax planning can save money and help grow wealth.
Through real-world examples and digital tools, you'll see how tax works in everyday life.
As a result, you'll be able to calculate basic taxes, make informed financial decisions, and understand how tax influences financial success.
Ever thought about becoming a financial detective?
Uncover how to check if companies are using their money the right way.
Discover what audits are and how internal auditors (who work inside a company) differ from external auditors (who come from outside).
Understand the importance of being honest, fair, and careful when examining financial information.
Explore how companies face financial risks and think about smart ways to solve them.
Learn about Auditing Standards and how to apply them with a questioning mindset, known as professional scepticism.
Gain skills like checking numbers through tests and samples, and how to write audit reports.
Ready to discover how businesses run and make a real difference?
Get hands-on experience by working with a real company.
You’ll identify and examine a problem or project they’re working on and look at ways to improve it.
You'll develop practical knowledge and skills under the guidance and supervision of an academic mentor and a host business along the way.
How do businesses get the money they need, decide on big investments, or handle risks?
In this module, you'll learn how companies make important financial decisions.
Discover how businesses raise money through borrowing or selling shares, decide where to invest, and manage risks.
You'll also understand what happens during mergers and takeovers.
By the end, you'll know how to analyse financial data and understand the choices companies make to grow and succeed.
How do businesses decide what to charge for their products or how to set their budgets?
Want to understand how they track performance and make smart choices?
This module introduces you to the tools and techniques companies use to manage money and make informed decisions.
Explore how to identify key costs that influence decisions and understand activity-based costing.
You'll also learn methods to track performance, improve efficiency, and discover how management control systems help businesses stay on track.
Additionally, you'll understand transfer pricing and its role in cost management, and find out how public sector and non-profit organisations handle their finances.
Have you ever asked yourself how companies around the world report their finances?
Want to know how financial statements help businesses make big decisions?
This module will guide you through the basics of international financial reporting.
You'll learn why International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are important and how they work.
Explore how shareholders influence financial reporting and how to read and understand financial statements.
You'll also discover how businesses and stakeholders use these reports to make smart choices.
Who makes the big decisions in a company?
What happens when things go wrong?
This module helps you understand how companies are run and who holds them accountable.
You'll learn about corporate governance, how businesses make decisions, stay transparent, and act responsibly.
Explore the roles of company boards, directors, and shareholders and see how poor governance can lead to failures and why reforms are important.
Understand how governance works in different countries and its link to ethical business practices.
You’ll be based at the impressive Reg Vardy Centre at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s in stunning surroundings overlooking the banks of the River Wear.
**Please note that part-time study is not available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
Many students on this course will be considering a career as a professional accountant, whether as a financial accountant or a management accountant.
A financial accountant will typically work for many different clients, while a management accountant is employed by just one organisation and has a say in the running of that organisation.
Business graduates have secured roles with organisations including Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Nissan, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Adidas.
To further enhance employability, we encourage you to undertake a 48-week paid placement between your second and final year.
Our invitations to guest speakers allow you to listen to people who are already in the type of management position that you may one day hold.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-business-marketing-management:
Compared to the core Business and Management course, it has a greater focus on skills and knowledge related to marketing, including marketing management, planning and strategy, marketing communications, consumer behaviour and internet marketing.
The course has a range of employability modules across all years which help you strengthen the six key attributes of being capable, enquiring, creative, enterprising, ethical and global in outlook.
Throughout the course the focus is on innovative teaching and learning by doing and reflecting.
One technique is problem-based learning, where you work in a small team to explore issues or decide how to manage a situation.
This helps you to dissect, challenge and debate issues.
Other teaching methods include company visits, guest speakers and cutting-edge elearning technologies.
Other methods include assessed case studies and business simulations, presentations, reports, essays, tests and time-constrained assessments.
Our marketing students graduate with sought-after skills and knowledge across all areas of business and management.
The employability focused curriculum of the course has been designed in collaboration with a range of employers including: CDC Wealth Management, Caterpillar, Nissan, Network Rail, NCC Education, NHS, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, Uplift Associates, Sedgefield SSP CIC, Castle Howard and NRL Ltd.
The Student Business Society organises events and guest speakers, as well as attending tours of various companies.
With its professional approach, it’s a great way to put into practice the lessons about how to make organisations function effectively.
There is something for every student who is studying a subject related to business.
Recent speakers include Maurice Duffy, CEO of Global Blackswan, Mike Johnson, CEO of Castrol and Executive Vice President of BP, Uday K.
Dholakia, Senior Partner of Global Consulting, Neil Stephenson, CEO of ONYX, James Ramsbotham, CEO of the North East Chamber of Commerce, as well as other representatives from a number of our region’s largest employers.
A top-up entry option is available to those who have already successfully completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation Degree and wish to progress onto the final year of the honours degree course.
Launching soon, the Sunderland Marketing Hub gives students – supported by academic staff – an opportunity to address problems presented by local businesses or organisations.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-business-management:
BA (Hons) Business and Management focuses on professional and personal development, combining contemporary student and employer requirements with the latest academic theory.
Undertaking multiple live learning activities, you will explore a range of perspectives including the key role of managers in the operations and quality process of business, management learning and professional development, and developing your skills as a strategic decision maker.
With an innovative mix of experiential learning and knowledge development in terms of the role, function and influence of managers and leaders in a changing business world, the course provides you with opportunities for creative, reflexive, innovative and entrepreneurial skills development in live work environments.
Examples of experiential learning methods include live projects, placement opportunities, workplace shadowing and panel presentations.
This includes problem-based learning, where you’ll work in a small team to explore issues or decide how to manage a situation.
Other teaching methods include company visits, guest speakers and cutting-edge elearning technologies.
Assessment methods include: narrative reports, eportfolios, consultancy projects, negotiated assessments, case studies, reflective statements, audio journals, posters, digital storyboards, blogs, podcasts and YouTube videos.
Business and management is one of the most versatile subjects to study at degree level, opening up paths to a huge range of careers in the business world and beyond.
Business students tend to be career focused and keen to take any opportunity to help them stand out in a competitive jobs market.
With that in mind, here are our top tips to help you achieve your business and management career goals.
Find out how to achieve your business and management career goals
This is home to the Sunderland Business School and the St Peter’s Library with thousands of books related to business, economics, management, human resources, marketing and strategy.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-business-hr-management:
Gain sought-after skills and knowledge for a rewarding career in Human Resource Management.
This course focuses on the professional skills and knowledge identified by the CIPD.
Study full-time and choose an optional years' placement (applied route).
Compared to our core course, there is a greater focus on the skills and knowledge needed for the HR function in modern organisations.
Sunderland Business School has introduced employability modules across all years of undergraduate degree study.
These help you strengthen the six key attributes of being capable, enquiring, creative, enterprising, ethical and global in outlook.
Other teaching methods include company visits, guest speakers and cutting-edge elearning technologies.
The Student Business Society organises events and guest speakers, as well as attending tours of various companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-business-financial-management:
BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management focuses on specialist modules including financial accounting, management accounting, business finance, financial management, strategic management accounting and international financial reporting.
Financial management is an essential part of any successful business.
This course will teach the framework of managing business finances.
It can also be the first step to qualification as an accountant.
Accomplish a good understanding of firm’s investment and financial decision-making.
Establish an understanding of the role and importance of finance within modern business organisations.
Consider the importance of financial issues in management decision-making.
Use the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) to gain knowledge and skills that are transferable across the globe.
Examine the fundamental components necessary to effectively source, design, research and disseminate business consultancy projects for small to medium-sized businesses and larger companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr/undergraduate-social-media-management:
Are you an aspiring content creator?
An entrepreneur looking to build your brand?
Or do you dream of a career managing social and digital communities for major companies?
This course gives you the skills and experience to do it all.
Almost every brand, business and organisation, from Nike to Netflix, recognises the need for a powerful social media presence – and for skilled professionals to manage it.
The demand for social media experts, content specialists and digital community managers is increasing year-on-year in this dynamic and ever-evolving industry.
On this Digital Marketing Institute-accredited degree, you’ll learn to grow and engage audiences, create scroll-stopping content from AR lenses and photography to video and livestreams, develop brands and manage relationships, and shape organic and paid strategies and campaigns.
You’ll build your own digital communities, develop your own creator channels and work on client projects.
You’ll also complete a week-long industry placement and start building your own professional brand.
You’ll graduate with a degree in Social Media Management, an optional qualification in media law, and an Associate Digital Marketing certificate to launch your social media career, whether that’s as an in-house specialist, a freelancer or digital nomad, or an agency owner or entrepreneur.
On this degree, you’ll learn by doing.
You’ll build your own creator channels, grow digital communities, and develop strategies and content for real-world businesses and audiences.
You’ll create reports and use digital and social media metrics to analyse and evaluate work that shows real impact.
You’ll take part in client projects, working both individually and in teams on live briefs, pitching ideas or putting them into action.
In your first year, you’ll sit one media law exam, ensuring you’re legally safe to publish content.
Sometimes, you’ll delve further into ideas and research about how influence and persuasion work on social platforms or how we can optimise the spread of information, and you’ll present your ideas in formats that suit you – whether that’s in writing, video, or in a presentation.
Most teaching happens in practical workshops, supported by one-to-ones, placements and occasionally lectures.
In your final year, you’ll shape your own ‘masterpiece’, a major project that reflects your skills, interests and ambitions as a content creator and social media strategist.
Assessments include practical projects, critical reflections, case studies, essays and presentations.
There is also a Media Law exam as part of the NCTJ certificate.
All modules are taught during the daytime, and you will be studying alongside full-time students.
Want to turn your creativity into a strong social media presence?
This module teaches you how to build a personal brand, create engaging content, and grow your audience across different platforms.
Learn the key skills of content creation, including video production, photography, graphic design, livestreaming, and even augmented reality.
Understand how social media platforms work, track your performance, and use smart strategies to reach more people.
Discover what makes content go viral, how trends spread, and why people share what they do.
By mixing creativity with strategy, you’ll build a loyal following – and even explore ways to make money as a creator.
Public relations is all about storytelling, strategy, and reputation.
How do businesses earn trust?
What makes a campaign go viral?
In this module, you'll explore how PR shapes brands and builds strong connections with audiences.
Learn to craft compelling news releases, develop key messaging, and pitch impactful campaigns.
Analyse real-world case studies to see what works and why.
You'll dive into the full PR planning process, from researching audiences to amplifying messages for maximum impact.
In today’s digital world, understanding the legal and ethical challenges is more important than ever.
Whether you're working in marketing, journalism, or communications, this module will teach you how to navigate the rules and stay compliant.
You’ll delve into the key laws that impact the digital space, from copyright and privacy to defamation and data protection.
You’ll also learn how to follow ethical guidelines and stay on track with industry regulations in advertising, PR, marketing, and publishing.
Gain hands-on skills in managing influencer contracts, paid content, and tackling the ethical dilemmas social media managers face daily.
Ready to make an impact with your social media skills?
In this module, you’ll work with a real client to craft a strategy that delivers measurable results.
Learn how to master the latest tools and tactics – from social listening and brand storytelling to influencer marketing and user-generated content.
You’ll also gain essential digital marketing skills, like running paid ads, optimising SEO, and mastering email marketing, giving you an edge in today’s competitive market.
Track success, analyse real-time metrics, and create professional reports to showcase your impact.
By the end, you’ll have the hands-on experience and skills to create social media strategies that truly make a difference.
Bring your ideas to life with hands-on media production.
Whether it’s video, livestreaming, or podcasting, this module gives you the skills to create content that grabs attention and keeps audiences engaged.
Master camera operation, lighting, sound recording, video editing, and colour grading.
Learn how to run livestreams that connect with viewers in real-time and craft podcasts that tell compelling stories.
From scripting and recording to editing and producing, you’ll develop the skills to make high-quality content across multiple platforms.
How do brands and businesses use these formats to connect with audiences?
You’ll also explore content marketing strategies and discover how your skills can be used in the real world.
Ready to make an impact?
Bring people together, spark conversations, and create a digital space where ideas and collaboration flourish.
In this module, you’ll learn how to grow and manage online communities that inspire real engagement.
Discover what motivates people to join and participate, master strategies to keep members active, and develop key skills in moderating and managing online interactions.
Track success with key metrics and learn how to foster a healthy, engaged community.
With online communities shaping everything from brands to movements, this module gives you the expertise to turn an audience into a powerful, connected network.
Step into the fast-paced world of public relations and take on a live client brief.
In this hands-on module, you’ll plan and execute real-world PR campaigns that blend traditional media, social platforms, events, and influencer partnerships.
Develop essential skills in strategic planning, messaging, and media relations.
Craft compelling media kits, write news releases, and learn how to capture attention in a crowded media landscape.
Focus on measurable results, perfect your timing, and build key industry relationships.
Then, pitch your campaign in a professional group presentation.
Take everything you’ve learned and turn it into a real-world project with impact.
Whether you develop a social media strategy for a client, start an e-commerce brand, or build your own creator platform, this is your chance to apply your skills in a meaningful way.
Blend content creation, strategy, community management, marketing, PR, and data analysis to develop a powerful, polished project.
Designed to showcase your skills, the final project can grab the attention of employers, attract clients, or even kickstart your own business.
Ready to take control in a crisis?
Learn how to protect your brand during a crisis.
Create a solid crisis plan, craft powerful messages, and manage tough situations with confidence.
Study real-world scandals to uncover effective strategies and explore how social influence drives change.
Plus, discover how successful campaigns have sparked societal shifts and measure their impact.
Want real-world experience in social media, marketing, or PR?
This hands-on placement gives you the chance to work on live projects – whether in an agency or in-house – while building industry skills and getting a real taste of the field.
Stand out to employers and clients by crafting a personal brand, creating a strong digital presence, and learn how to perfect job applications, land clients, and price your services.
The University provides generous studio spaces, well-equipped workshops and excellent facilities for Animation and Games Art:
You’ll study in the David Puttnam Media Centre, which has a 4K TV studio and gallery which you will use for live-streaming on social media.
You also have access to radio studios, video editing suites, gaming and VR facilities.
You can get involved in award-winning community radio station, Spark Sunderland which is based in the building, and create online and social media content for our fashion, news, sport and culture websites in our mediaHUB.
You can also join our CineClub which screens films in our 200-seater cinema.
You’ll build the skills to land a job as a social media manager in almost any industry – from fashion and fitness to football and festivals.
Or, if you'd rather do your own thing, you’ll learn how to grow an audience, create content that connects, and build a brand you can turn into a career.
Our graduates have gone on to work with brands like Matalan, Tombola, Port of Tyne, Weber Shandwick, and Durham Women’s Football Club – and some have launched their own agencies like Olive and Sonder, or become creators collaborating with the likes of Harrods Beauty, Sephora and Greggs.
Alongside hands-on experience and live client projects, you’ll complete a work placement and build your own professional brand through the employability module.
Throughout the course, you'll also have opportunities to take on paid and voluntary social media work, giving you real-world experience, local business connections, and a robust portfolio to showcase your talent.
You’ll graduate with three separate qualifications in social media management, media law, and digital marketing – and a CV that stands out.
From your very first year, you'll be creating content for real audiences.
Students have launched successful social media projects like @NEFempowerment, @YorkshireLassInNewcastle, and @BrunchNE1 – which was featured in Living North’s 'One to Follow'.
What makes this degree really unique is our focus on content creation skills, from photography to video to graphics, allowing you to explore content-specific roles, stand out from those on social media marketing degrees, and giving you a strong basis to monetise your content skills.
You’ll work with local businesses and organisations on live social media briefs – helping them build campaigns, strategies and content that get results, and helping you build your portfolio.
We’ve partnered with businesses like Adventure Sunderland, Latimers Seafood, Lakes Distillery and North East Interior Designs, which has resulted in further paid work for some of our students.
Outside of your assignments, you’ll also have the chance to take on paid projects through our Sunderland Creatives Agency, as well as numerous paid and voluntary projects from businesses who approach us for your in-demand skills, building your portfolio and network as you go.
In your final year, you’ll take on a week-long placement – wherever you want to go.
Whether you’re aiming for an agency, a brand, or a solo path, you’ll be supported by our employability team and Enterprise Hub to make contact with your dream employers.
Past placements have included Metro Radio Arena, High Life North and Durham Cricket Club.
You'll also develop a personal brand and professional portfolio through your employability module, ready to stand out in the job market – or on your own.
If you’re entrepreneurial, this is your chance to make it happen.
You’ll have access to startup support and funding through our Digital Incubator.
Students have used their final project assessments to dedicate time to growing their own businesses on social and digital platforms, like Charlotte and Lauren, who launched their loungewear brand Cloud Eleven or Claudia, who used it to start growing client interest for her solo agency Digital NetConnector.
Whether you want to freelance, become a full-time creator, or launch your own company, we’ll help you turn your passion into something bigger.
Come and see for yourself, speak to our academic team, feel at home in our facilities.
For further information about the course or to arrange your tour contact:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-screen-performance:
Perfect performance for TV and film.
Equip yourself with a range of performance skills.
Gain experience that'll launch your media career in front of the camera.
Learn skills and techniques for television and film and prepare for a career in the screen industry.
Gain professional practice in screen performance including multi-camera acting and directing, scriptwriting, production skills, and multi-platform performance.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be guided and supported by our experts, all of whom are working or researching in media and performance.
You’ll study alongside actors, directors, agents, casting directors, and independent film makers who'll share their experience and encourage you to build your network.
Successful completion of this course will qualify you for Spotlight adult performer membership.
Alongside your practical work, teaching methods include lectures, demonstrations, workshops, seminars, screenings, group and individual projects, and independent learning.
The course has been designed to include a number of employability initiatives and links to industry, which are embedded throughout the course.
In the first two years, you’ll develop the core skills in screen performance.
The course culminates in a major screen project that supports your individual preference and/or career interests.
You'll be assessed in a variety of different forms, with learning outputs mirroring industry outputs in terms of showreels, audition and on-set standards and etiquette, video essays, adverts, as well as developing essay writing, research, and presentation skills.
Want to make your own short film?
Learn how to shoot and edit video using just one camera.
Try out filming, directing, and editing in hands-on workshops and bring stories to life.
You’ll also work in a team to create a Production File.
This will include your research, script, call sheets, and plan, just like in a real film crew.
Learn how to write scripts and understand how films are made.
Explore how stories are told on screen and what makes a great script.
You'll also research ideas, plan a project, and write your own script.
What kind of story would you love to write?
What movies inspire you?
You’ll build both creative and practical skills – perfect for anyone who dreams of writing for film or TV.
Discover what it takes to be a screen actor.
Develop your acting skills by working on camera and try our different acting techniques used by professionals.
Explore how your voice and body help bring your character to life and see how famous acting methods are used in film and TV today.
As a result, you'll create a short performance and summarise what you've learned in a short talk.
Ever wondered what it’s like to act in a real TV studio?
Learn how to perform for the camera using scripts written for TV.
Practice acting in a multi-camera studio, learn how to prepare for filming, and even direct yourself.
Want to build skills for working in film and TV that help you stand out?
Develop a toolkit that helps you become a confident screen artist and develop your understanding of the impact of practitioner-inspired methods specific to work that takes place within TV and Film environments.
Fancy creating a short film?
Grab some teammates and create a 5-minute movie starting from an idea to a finished video.
Learn how to direct, produce, use cameras, set lighting, record sound, edit, and manage a production.
Build your teamworking skills by working alongside others, solving problems, and directing actors.
You'll also be challenged with funding your project and sharing it online.
How does drama work on Live TV?
Why is it so important?
Get hands-on experience working in a TV studio and out on location, and learn key ways to capture great performances for TV.
Discover how acting and production choices affect what viewers see, whether in the studio or outside.
Want to uncover how different genres keep audiences hooked?
Explore different types of stories, from thrillers and comedies to horror and romance.
Build on your basic production skills while learning how each genre shapes the story and what audiences expect, whether on screen, stage, or in immersive experiences.
Work with others on projects that use classic genre rules but also give you space to be creative and try new ideas.
Study famous and modern examples to help develop your storytelling skills.
A rare opportunity to collaborate with Northumbria Police and produce an awareness and training film that addresses crime.
Learn how to act in front of the camera and explore business on screen, hitting a mark, audition techniques and reactions to camera.
Analyse scenes from screen performances and explore the creation of meaning in performance.
Evaluate how performance and participatory filmmaking can aid social change.
Want to turn your creativity into a career?
This module helps you explore how the creative world works and what your place in it could be.
You’ll learn from real-life creatives, work on a small live project, and build practical skills for jobs in areas like design, media, or education.
You’ll also create a digital portfolio or an online CV to show off your best work and start building your personal brand.
Curious about acting in VR, doing voiceovers, or presenting on TV?
As a screen actor, you’ll explore lots of styles, from motion capture and podcasting to animation voice work.
Get involved in hands-on workshops, where you’ll learn real skills, build confidence, and create clips for your showreel.
You’ll get to act in virtual worlds, voice cartoon characters, move like a video game hero, and tell stories using only your voice.
Get the opportunity to interact with industry specialists.
Produce a showreel featuring your best acting clips, perfect for impressing casting directors or potential employers after graduating.
You'll also get the opportunity to write about your acting journey over the last three years.
What skills have you gained?
How have you grown and developed?
Post-production, you can edit your films and TV shows using our editing rooms.
In our colour grading room, you can create the stylistic look for your project, and in the sound production room, you can use Pro Tools to mix your sound track and audio dialogue in surround sound.
We have resources and support tailored for your course including: Dance in Video, hours of dance productions and documentaries from the most influential performers and companies; International Bibliography of Theatre and Drama the definitive research tool for theatre and performing arts; and Box of Broadcasts (BoB) an on-demand TV and radio streaming service.
The University’s facilities for Performing Arts include:
View our AccessAble accessibility guide for Priestman building.
Next door to our new Virtual Production Studio, you’ll find the TV Studio, which has had a recent investment.
This broadcast-standard HD TV studio has a 10m by 3.5m LED Volume, with real-time virtual production and camera tracking, and a lighting system identical to those used at Pinewood Studios, so you’ll have access to industry-standard equipment from day one.
Our 4K-UHD virtual studio is an exciting new facility that will bring your creative ideas to life.
The £300k investment in Real Time Virtual Production includes a Mo-Sys camera tracking unit (which can be used with our Blackmagic cameras), handheld Viewfinder and fully refreshed Chroma Wall.
Using Unreal Engine, you’ll be able to create immersive virtual worlds and scenes, and will be able to film real-world actors within them.
This type of cutting-edge technology can be seen on Disney’s ‘The Mandalorian’, and more recently at the BBC coverage of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics.
We’ve also invested in new LED studio lights to complement our new kit and make our studio more environmentally friendly.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle and Made in Tyne & Wear, who are both based in the building.
Volunteer with award winning Spark Sunderland, write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine in our mediaHUB.
Get hands on in TV and Radio Studios, Journalism and Digital editing suites.
Audition You'll be asked to prepare an audition piece lasting one minute.
This should show your ability to not only perform with confidence but communicate with an audience.
You're expected to audition with a monologue.
Please note that we're not looking for perfection, and we appreciate you’re still developing as a performer.
Interview requirements You’ll also be invited to an informal interview.
We’d like to hear about you, why you’re interested in studying with us, and tell you a bit more about our course and what makes us special.
You'll be asked to prepare an audition piece lasting one minute.
You’ll also be invited to an informal interview.
This degree prepares you for a career in front of the camera.
You'll gain highly transferable skills in communication, presentation, and collaboration with others which will be very relevant to roles in TV, new media, and performance.
We actively encourage you to gain relevant work experience while at university.
During every year of your course, you'll be guided and encouraged to gain meaningful experience that'll fit around your studies.
You'll undertake a number of practice modules throughout your course, which can include live briefs from clients from outside the University.
We frequently invite guest speakers to run workshops and masterclasses, allowing you to relate your learning to real-life experience.
Previous masterclasses have been delivered by Lord David Puttnam; Bhasker Patel (Emmerdale, Thunderbirds, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom); Liam Fox (Emmerdale, Dinnerladies); Coronation Street’s first disabled actress, Cherylee Houston; Terence Maynard (Coronation Street, Edge of Tomorrow, Revolver, Reign of Fire); principal costume coordinator in film and TV, Carol Machin (The Hitman's Bodyguard, 13 Hours, Judy, Dune); director, Ian Bevitt (Coronation Street and Emmerdale); senior production manager, Lee Rayner (Coronation Street); and Bessie Williams, who set up casting recruitment agency NE1 4.TV, (Vera, Beowulf, and CBBC’s The Dumping Ground).
We have excellent links with national employers such as the BBC and ITV, and strong links with regional productions like Vera and the Dumping Ground.
Creative Industries Week gives everyone studying Arts and Creative Industries courses the opportunity to participate in a range of projects, workshops, talks, industry visits, and career events.
This exciting week encourages interdisciplinary working and broadens your experience to build your confidence and help develop your career path.
We encourage you to attend as many activities as possible and try something new.
Come and see for yourself; speak to our academic team and feel at home in our facilities.
For further information about studying at the University of Sunderland contact the Student Helpline:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-photography-video-digital-imaging:
Join us at the Northern Centre of Photography and develop your photographic skills in state-of-the-art facilities.
Be guided by our photographic experts and specialist technicians.
Gain the confidence, knowledge and skills to start a successful career in the creative industries.
Our Film Production and Photography courses are 5th in the UK (Guardian University Guide, 2025).
You’ll learn how to make high quality digital and traditional images in our professional photography studios, digital production suites and photographic darkrooms.
Learn how to tell compelling stories about the things that matter to you with guidance from our expert team of practising photographers.
Our students have gone on to work in a whole range of areas such as medical, music, sports and events photography, working as studio and gallery assistants, curating, running commercial photography businesses, teaching, community and social work and publishing.
This course is structured so that you'll explore different approaches and styles of photography and moving image to build your skills, your creative approaches, and understanding of the practice as you develop your own aesthetic and intellectual position as an image maker.
You'll have opportunities to experiment and challenge yourself, present your ideas to your peers, and test your work in the real world.
This module helps you gain confidence in using the photographic facilities at the Northern Centre of Photography.
Focusing on documentary practice, you’ll learn to use film, analogue cameras, and darkroom printing techniques, while also developing research, writing, and digital skills.
What does it take to develop your own photographic style?
You’ll be encouraged to learn from the work of others, blending practical production with contextual research to build your unique approach to photography.
This module introduces you to a range of digital image capture and editing techniques, including digital manipulation and montaging.
Through workshops, seminars, and hands-on tutorials, you'll learn how to use DSLR cameras, explore stock image archives, and experiment with leading image editing software.
How can you push the boundaries of digital image-making?
You’ll develop skills in DSLR image capture, Adobe Photoshop, generative AI imaging, and mobile editing apps, allowing you to create high-quality, creative work that goes beyond traditional photography.
How can you create professional-quality moving image content?
In this module, you’ll participate in technical workshops where you’ll learn the software and hardware needed to produce engaging moving-image work.
Through screenings, lectures, and seminars, you’ll explore the evolution of video practice, from early pioneers to the impact of social media on contemporary work.
You’ll also gain hands-on experience operating cameras, editing, sequencing, and exporting your own creative projects.
How can light and colour transform your photography?
In this module, you’ll work creatively with light and colour in a professional studio setting, learning key aspects of staged and realist photography.
You’ll gain technical skills such as using cameras and studio flash, while also developing your understanding of colour management, digital workflow software, and post-production techniques.
Through workshops and set projects, you’ll explore how light and colour evoke emotion and meaning in images.
You’ll also enhance your creative and technical skills in image capture, both in the studio and on location, while participating in lectures and seminars that expand your knowledge of photography.
This module teaches you how to develop and complete your own self directed narrative project.
You’ll explore the work of artists and photographers who tell powerful visual stories, learning how to edit, sequence, and experiment with different narrative devices.
How do you become an engaging visual storyteller?
By the end of the module, you’ll create a final project, presented as a book, zine, or multimedia piece, that showcases your ability to craft compelling visual narratives.
This module explores the opportunities and challenges of rapidly evolving photographic technologies and cultures.
You’ll learn how contemporary images are shared and experienced across different platforms, both online and offline.
Through practical work in analogue and digital colour photography, you’ll also develop your technical and creative skills.
What role do photographers play in today’s image saturated world?
You’ll consider the wider social impact of lens based practice and discover creative and professional models to help shape your own approach.
How do you take your photography from concept to public presentation?
In this module, you’ll gain real world experience by developing a project for display in a site specific location.
You’ll explore both physical and virtual spaces for your work, while considering key ethical, material, and audience factors.
You’ll also take part in mock ‘commission’ tasks and networking opportunities, learning how to produce, present, and promote your photography, building practical skills and beginning to shape your professional profile.
What does it take to build a successful creative career?
In this module, you’ll engage in real world activities that deepen your understanding of the demands and rewards of working in the Arts, Cultural, and Creative Industries.
You’ll take part in live collaborative projects in response to real commission briefs, attend weekly lectures from professional artists and creatives, and explore placement opportunities with relevant partner organisations.
You’ll develop a wide range of professional skills, such as imagination, resilience, adaptability, communication, and collaboration, while gaining the confidence that a career in the arts and creative industries is not only achievable but also one of the most rewarding paths you can take.
How can you align your creative work with real industry opportunities?
In this module, you’ll begin with a personal analysis to reflect on your skills, aspirations, and career goals.
From there, you’ll plan and produce an industry oriented photography project of your choice, whether that’s still life, portraiture, fashion, interiors, landscape, or another area, aiming to create work that meets professional standards and fits a chosen context.
You’ll also build a research portfolio featuring case studies and career planning activities, helping you map out your place within the contemporary cultural and creative industries.
By the end of the module, you’ll understand how to present your skills effectively to clients, audiences, and employers, supported by a strong digital portfolio and a clearer sense of your professional direction.
How do you develop a project that reflects your unique creative voice and meets professional standards?
In this module, you’ll choose an individual area of interest and produce a fully resolved, self-directed body of work for portfolio presentation.
You’ll be encouraged to experiment, refine your working methods, and develop a reflective, research informed approach that aligns with real world industry practices.
You’ll receive regular feedback through tutorials and group seminars, where you’ll test new ideas and take part in discussions about your own and others’ work.
Alongside this, you’ll take part in workshops that mirror professional networking environments, helping you shape a project that is not only creatively ambitious but also industry ready.
How can you create and present work to a real world audience?
In this module, you’ll develop and deliver a self negotiated final project, ready for public presentation in an appropriate context, media, and format.
You’ll gain valuable practical experience and visibility, identifying your target audience and creating strategies to engage them effectively.
Through this hands-on process, you’ll build the skills needed to present your work professionally and connect with your audience in a meaningful way.
A spacious and well-resourced facility for the production of black and white chemical prints.
You can print using negatives from 35mm to 5x4 (or digital negatives), as well as work with alternative print processes, such as cyanotypes and liquid light.
A specialist lab for c-type colour chemical printing, featuring individual colour enlargement bays, colour print processing machine, colour film processor and daylight viewing area.
This space is equipped with 24” M1 iMacs; Epson A2 and A1 inkjet printers; Imacon film scanners; laser printer; a cutting table; and a large 4k display screen.
Our equipment stores contain a huge range of pro photography kit including:
We also stock: portable flash lighting kits, tripods, a huge range of lenses, VR headset, digital projectors, GoPro 360 cameras, LEAF digital camera backs, plus many more specialist items.
We have two large pro studios equipped with Bowens digital flash lighting and a range of attachments, as well as high-end tethered shooting with 100mp Phase One XF medium format digital cameras and iMac Pros.
A large digital darkroom studio, fitted out with a suite of 24 inch M1 iMacs running Adobe Creative Cloud; flatbed film and print scanners; and large 4k display screen.
An open-plan creative space for our Northern Centre of Photography community to meet, study and socialise.
Work in progress or final outcomes can be presented on the magnetic gallery walls.
You'll also have access to department kitchen facilities.
Our Photography courses are situated at the Northern Centre of Photography.
The University provides excellent facilities and industry-standard software so it's easy to make a seamless transition from your studies to the workplace.
If you are studying an HND or Foundation Degree you may be able to enter stage two of our degree courses.
For more information, please contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk Part-time study If you study this course on a part-time basis you will typically complete 40-80 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All modules are taught during the day and you will study alongside full-time students.
Portfolio and interview We’re interested in your creative potential; please prepare a portfolio of work you have completed so far.
This can be a physical portfolio (eg.
a box of prints) or a digital version (eg.
PowerPoint or PDF).
We’re not looking for perfection as we appreciate you may still be developing work.
We’d like to see: A variety of work – a range of styles and techniques Work completed in or outside your studies Interesting ideas that you feel didn’t quite work We’ll also ask you to come to interview.
This will allow us to get to know each other.
We’re interested in your approach to your work, as well as your interests, influences, and experience.
Part-time study If you study this course on a part-time basis you will typically complete 40-80 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
We’re interested in your creative potential; please prepare a portfolio of work you have completed so far.
We’ll also ask you to come to interview.
Graduates from this course are creative individuals who work in a broad range of careers.
This may be in directly related areas such as the music and fashion press, medical, sports and event photography, as well as people-facing professions such as teaching and marketing.
Graduates have also taken up internships using their creative and management skills and established their own small businesses, operating throughout the country.
With opportunities to meet and learn from many visiting international photographic practitioners, you'll be joining a centre of research and teaching excellence in the North of England.
Part of a vibrant campus, we have links to major cultural and industry organisations and we host the North East Photography Network (NEPN), the region’s professional development agency for photography.
Through NEPN, you'll meet visiting photographers from around the UK and farther afield, and have opportunities to work alongside them, developing your contacts and industry experience.
Our course will take you places!
We’ll help you find the right opportunities for a fulfilling career or further study.
We give our students the chance to develop real-world experiences and build a professional CV.
This could mean working collaboratively as part of a creative team, undertaking an internship or placement in business, or working on commissions.
You’ll also find out about routes into teaching, and other postgraduate study.
Sunderland Culture is a collaboration between the University, council and the city’s key cultures organisations.
This partnership brings big-name creatives in contemporary visual arts, glass, ceramics and performance to the city; showcases exciting local talent; and gives our students unique experiences including exceptional career-enhancing opportunities.
There are also opportunities to work on placements and commissions through our Sunderland Creatives Agency.
We welcome many professional photographers and image makers from around the world to the Northern Centre of Photography.
You’ll get to meet and hear from many of them.
Recent speakers have included Kuba Ryniewicz, Eva Vermandel, Krishna Sheth Gilston, Shahidul Alam, Paul Wenham-Clarke, Bart Pajak, John Kippin and Nicola Neate.
Creative Industries Week gives everyone in the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries the opportunity to participate in a range of projects, workshops, talks, industry visits and career events.
This exciting week encourages interdisciplinary working, broadens your experience, to build your confidence and help develop your career path.
Recently, students have benefited from zine making and micro-publishing workshops, had the chance to find out about photography and astronomy and explored innovative approaches to sustainable creativity.
View Programme Specifications for Arts and Creative Industries

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/performing-arts/undergraduate-performing-arts:
Personalise your studies between dance, drama, and musical theatre to suit your evolving interests and aspirations.
Study in a multidisciplinary way, which you'll know is reflective of the industry.
Experiment with new things, create a personal pathway with a focus on dance, drama, or musical theatre, or a mix of all three.
Personalise your studies to suit your evolving interests and aspirations.
Build the necessary skills to succeed in higher education, recognise your own strengths and idiosyncrasies, and establish yourself as an employable practitioner.
Whether you wish to dance, act, devise, choreograph, teach, or facilitate, this course will give you the skills, techniques, confidence, and experience to be industry-ready.
You'll develop as a creative and versatile individual; we want you to graduate with the best opportunities possible that'll prepare you for a successful career in the performing arts world.
Teaching is largely studio-based with supporting lectures, seminars, workshop discussions, and independent learning.
All modules integrate theory and practice; tasks and problem-solving, which engage you in interactive learning.
You'll perform at a range of venues and in professional theatres, including The Fire Station .
Assessments are often practical or performance-based and also include presentations, workshops, essays, and e-portfolios.
We provide regular feedback to help you develop your work.
If you study this course on a part-time basis, you'll typically complete 40-80 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All modules are taught during the day, and you'll be studying alongside full-time students.
Want to learn how a pantomime show comes together on stage and behind the scenes?
Dive into both performing and producing a pantomime.
You’ll audition for roles, work as a team, and bring a fun, lively show to life.
Along the way, you’ll explore acting, singing, dancing, puppetry, comedy, and even technical skills like costumes, sets, lighting, and marketing.
You’ll rehearse and perform in a scripted pantomime while also helping create the costumes, sets, and props.
Want to explore new ways of performing for digital audiences?
This module explores four exciting areas of performance: TV presenting, podcasting, voice-over, and motion capture.
You’ll take part in hands-on workshops that help you grow your skills and confidence and boost your chances of getting cast or hired in a range of creative roles.
Interested in becoming a stronger, more confident performer?
Build key skills like clear speech, expression, character work, movement, and stage presence.
Learn how to use space, control your body, and respond to direction in creative ways.
Explore different ways of working, like scripts, choreography, tasks, and scores.
You’ll also use videos, text, and research to help shape your performance.
Want to act in TV or film?
Curious about how it all works behind the scenes?
Work with real scripts and film in a multi-camera studio.
Boost your acting skills by learning how to prepare for scenes, take direction, and even direct yourself.
This module will help you build your confidence in front of the camera and better understand how TV scenes are filmed and how actors and crews work together.
This will be rounded up by giving a short presentation about your experience and role in the performance.
Get ready to perform outside of a traditional theatre.
Work with Beamish Museum to perform an abridged version of A Christmas Carol, focusing on acting in a real historical setting.
You’ll also create a cabaret performance for a local bar, using humour, music, and ideas to entertain and make people think.
As a result, you'll build skills in voice, movement, and character while learning how to adapt to different spaces and audiences.
Do you want to act, sing, dance and learn how to create each one from scratch?
In this module, you'll work on three creative practices:
- Page to Stage – turn a play into a live performance and explore local theatre.
- Vocal Practices – break down songs and grow your singing skills.
- Choreographic Approaches – design your own dance using rhythm, space, and structure.
How can you use the arts to teach, inspire, and make change?
Explore how performance fits into real-world settings like schools, communities, and touring theatre.
Research current trends in the performing arts and write a funding bid for a creative idea.
You’ll also design and deliver a workshop, build your leadership and planning skills, and explore how performance can support education and community work.
Do you want to perform in a full musical as part of the ensemble?
If so, you'll take part in a public performance and explore what makes successful, from cult favourites like The Rocky Horror Picture Show to long-running shows like Phantom of the Opera.
You'll learn just how important the ensemble is to the magic of musical theatre.
Build your skills in acting, singing and movement through fun and challenging workshops.
Gain experience preparing for auditions and learn what it means to work as a team on stage.
You can choose to be a creative leader, a performer, or someone who helps with staging.
No matter what you pick, you’ll build skills like acting, directing, choreographing, and using lighting, props, and costumes in smart ways.
What role excites you the most?
Are you ready to lead, perform, or design the show?
You’ll also research career options to help you plan your future after graduation.
What kind of job do you see yourself doing in the arts?
This course helps you find your path and grow your talents.
Ready to start your journey?
Ever wondered what it's like to create a full musical, from rehearsals to the final curtain call?
Get a chance to work as part of a production team to rehearse and perform a full musical for a live audience.
You’ll take the lead in shaping your own role – as a performer and as a creative collaborator.
Some rehearsals will be led by a director, and others will be run by you and your team, just like in a real theatre company.
Where could your creative skills take you?
Gain an insight into today's creative industries, exploring new trends, ideas, and what professionals are getting up to.
Take on a project with real-world goals.
This could be a creative company, school, or organisation.
You’ll also build a digital CV or online portfolio to show your best work and help you stand out as a creative graduate.
At our City Campus, the University’s facilities for dance and performing arts include:
We’ve got a large collection of books, e-books and audio-visual materials related to dance, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
We also subscribe to a comprehensive range of journals so that you can access the most up-to-date research and information.
During your time as a student, you can take advantage of opportunities to participate in University-based dance and drama societies as well as the choir and musical theatre performance projects.
This course is based at the Priestman Building, the main base for art, design and performance on City Campus.
The Priestman Building provides state-of-the-art teaching space and resources as part of a vibrant and creative learning environment.
Dance City and Live Theatre have studios just a stone’s throw from campus.
With the city investing in culture, it’s an exciting time to become a performer in Sunderland.
If you're studying an HND or Foundation Degree you may be able to enter the final year of our degree courses.
Audition requirements We'll ask you to prepare an audition piece lasting one minute.
Previous applicants have auditioned with monologues, songs, or dances, so choose whichever you're most comfortable with.
Please note, we're not looking for perfection, and we appreciate you’re still developing as a performer.
We'll ask you to prepare an audition piece lasting one minute.
You'll gain highly transferable skills in communication, presentation, and collaboration with others.
These skills, together with a track record of creativity and innovative thinking, provide a valuable advantage when it comes to applying for many different fields of employment.
This course prepares you for roles in the performing arts such as:
The academic team have an extensive network of professional, education, and community contacts in the region.
You'll benefit from these in your negotiated projects, workshops, and visits.
Extracurricular classes are available throughout the year with a range of guest teachers, for example musical theatre repertoire with touring cast members, one to one vocal lessons, yoga, character development, street dance, and harmony singing.
Where possible, we invite visiting companies and artists to the University.
Examples include Big Foot, Puppetship, Live Theatre, Mee Mee theatre, Tom Whaley, Bell and Bullock Circus, Dani Dee Drag Artist/Dancer, Charlie Richmond Tyne Theatre pantomime, and The Suggestibles improv comedy.
We'll also take you to see lots of regional live work from big West End musicals to fringe productions.
Work by our students is hosted by venues such as The Fire Station, where masterclasses are also held and led by visiting artists.
The independent study module allows you to take educational and professional opportunities as they arise.
Examples include the production of a new play performed at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival and a cross-generational performance with a professional choreographer and dancers.
Many projects are sited in schools and the wider community.
We also arrange end-of-year performances in a professional arts venue, working alongside schedulers, box office staff, technicians, and professional performers.
Your involvement in these performances helps you develop skills in marketing, design, and communication with venues.
All students studying on-campus undergraduate performing arts courses can take up a CV-enhancing work placement, a University-led industry initiative, or a professional and business development boot camp.
By the term placement, we mean we're offering you a taste of the industry which might last anything from two days to four weeks on a part-time basis.
This exciting week encourages interdisciplinary working, broadens your experience, builds your confidence, and helps develop your career path.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/performing-arts/undergraduate-modern-music-industries:
Learn in Sunderland's cultural quarter at the Northern Academy of Music Education.
Study key practices and ideas associated with commercial music production.
Pursue a career in commercial music and associated fields.
BA (Hons) Modern Music Industries covers the skills needed to succeed as a professional in the modern music industry.
The course is designed and delivered by current industry professionals and covers the areas of recording, marketing, event planning, composing, genre studies, and music performance.
By studying this course, you’ll gain practical skills that enable you to pursue a career in the live or recorded sectors of the music industry, or related sectors such as media or music teaching.
You’ll also develop critical thinking skills that'll enable you to further your academic journey and better understand your practice.
This course allows you to lead on your own artistic progression by focusing on your vocational interests in the field.
In year one and two, you'll learn about event management and production, with elements of genre studies at the core of the course.
You'll also have the option of studying music theory and music business.
Alongside your studies, you'll follow a personal progression pathway, where you can choose a topic in your own area of interest to develop as a research project.
In the third year of this course, your studies will become more learner-led.
You'll present an investigation on your personal practice, while learning to teach your specialist field, and creating your own professional portfolio.
At the end of the course, you'll have developed skills that will help you with future employability.
Discover the many roles and responsibilities involved in putting on a live event in the modern market such as using a modest budget to run a music-based experience in a professional setting, marketing the event and generating income from music, and balancing the accounts.
Identify the origins of modern music and comprehend how historical situations have influenced and take influence from, music.
Discover why some songs within seminal genres become so successful and how they have influenced the future of music across generations.
Start your journey as a recording industry professional.
Gain competencies with recording and sharing sound files with other professionals.
Discover the history of recording and apply your knowledge in the studio to create your own track relating to the genres studied in Origins of Modern Music.
Develop your personal expertise in your chosen field within the music business under the supervision of a music industry professional.
Refine the skills you will need to succeed in the music industry with an individual learning plan and unique assessment relevant to your chosen discipline and skill level.
Demonstrate and journal your progression and evaluate your ability to progress even further.
Discover core and applied instrument skills on piano, keyboard, and the relevant theory behind music.
Improve performance skills and increase understanding of entry level music theory and harmony.
Enhance flexibility in programming and playing midi in creative music technology.
Discover how to create and maintain your career as a music industry professional – w here the money comes from, where it goes, and how you can control and influence your incomings and outgoings.
Explore your possible roles in the music industry and apply the skills involved in planning and executing an event where income is generated and accounts are kept.
How has the African Diaspora influenced the development of modern music?
In this module, you’ll explore the impact of the African Diaspora on the evolution of modern music, learning to participate in the creation of Afro-Diasporic genres like Blues, Jazz, and related sub-genres.
You’ll delve into the historical and cultural contexts that shaped these influential musical traditions.
Discover the issues involved in putting on a mini tour in more than one location.
Use the knowledge gained to negotiate reaching out to artists, venues, agents, and promoters to put on at least two shows in different places.
Research and analyse the origins of modern popular music by looking at several genres of music in the 20th century.
Analyse the historical/socio-cultural context and its effects on the musical and lyrical content.
Explore the evolution and cross-pollination of generic traits giving a wider view of genre and musical styles.
Consider the commercial appeal of each genre and develop knowledge of the most successful songs pertaining to a genre of choice and chosen time period.
Become empowered and enabled to get high-quality results from a home studio or more professional DAW.
Develop the skills to apply critical perspectives to the analysis of your own work, identifying opportunities for improvement.
Agree on a suitable practical assessment with your individual tutor and the course leader.
Complete the practical assessment and the theoretical underpinnings relating to it during the semester.
Keep a personal progression log as you acquire new skills and knowledge.
Submit a written evaluation identifying areas of good practice and opportunities for improvement.
Develop your skills in the recorded music sector.
Compare revenue streams and learn what model of distribution suits your music best.
Carry out research and apply your results to your career maximising profit from your recordings and creations.
Discover how to make your recordings make money.
Differentiate between the revenue streams involved in recorded music.
Use current information to keep earning money from your music in new situations, with new market forces.
Develop an individual voice as a composer of music.
Explore technical skills and creativity as a composer.
Broaden artistic overview of music and discover the ability to communicate through music.
How can Afro-Diasporic music inspire your creativity and deepen your understanding of theory and improvisation?
You’ll explore and implement a deeper knowledge of these musical elements in your practice, experimenting with improvisation and collaborating in larger ensembles, both in the studio and live.
You’ll also learn how Jazz Theory can be applied to modern sub-genres derived from Afro-Diasporic music, such as Hip Hop and Modern Jazz, demonstrating how these techniques can enhance your music-making.
Create and assemble a portfolio that showcases your professional and technical abilities in the music industry.
Devise and organise marketing materials that promote you to employers and consumers in the music industry.
Create your own music festival with multiple acts and compere.
Design, and construct a large-scale physical or online event that features a series of musical acts performing live either onstage or online.
Develop new contacts in the music industry and use communication skills to bring them together in one big event.
Investigate the approaches to your chosen subject specialism in the music industry.
Study how professionals in your field find creative inspiration and find their voice.
Discover how to attain better practice by informing your practice through research.
Discover the skills required to teach your preferred specialism in the modern music industry for teaching during the day or producing instructional videos for the online tuition market for example.
Research teaching methods and develop teaching skills, enabling you to design and develop your own bespoke music-related course.
Investigate the making of music in the modern age.
Develop your own approach to songwriting and generate a style based on a critical understanding of music making.
Use your newfound musical knowledge to create and assemble a portfolio of your own music.
In this module, you’ll develop the professional and personal skills required for writing songs with others, under the mentorship of Dave Stewart, one of the world’s most successful co-songwriters.
What makes for an effective songwriting partnership?
You’ll explore the dynamics of working with different partners, as well as learn how to navigate the business aspects of songwriting and industry relationships.
Near City Campus is The Fire Station, where our BA (Hons) Modern Music Industries course is based on the second floor.
The facility offers equipment including 12 Macintosh computers for recording, 10 digital pianos for keyboard lessons, one grand piano, one Hammond organ, and a pump harmonium.
There’s also a post-production recording studio with analogue synthesizers and effects.
The Peacock is a venue based near City Campus and is used for various parts of the BA (Hons) Modern Music Management course.
It hosts a working music venue space with capacity of 220 people, including a professional sound and lighting rig that is used for event management modules.
Above the venue is Birdland Studios, which holds two recording studios, a drum teaching space, and three rehearsal rooms.
This course is based at The Peacock and The Fire Station, in Sunderland's cultural quarter and is delivered by Northern Academy of Music Education .
You will have use of facilities including music practice rooms, performance spaces, classrooms and sound recording facilities.
You'll also be required to prepare an audition piece in a specialist field.
We can consider those coming from a non-traditional entry route and a case may be made for entry onto the course if your audition is outstanding or if you have experience in the music industry.
In this case, a sample of written work must be submitted to ensure that you're capable of the academic rigour of the course.
If you already have a Foundation degree, HND, or HNC qualification in music or a music-related course, then you may be eligible to join us as a direct applicant into stage 2 or stage 3 of this degree.
This will be using our Accreditation of Prior Learning route.
For more information on how to apply to join Stage 2 or Stage 3, please contact Northern Academy of Music Education.
Learn more about settled status, pre-settled status, and Common Travel Area (CTA) agreements for the Republic of Ireland applicants in our Help and Advice article .
Please note, this course isn't open to international students.
This unique course prepares you for roles in music-related industries including music performance, venue and band management, event promotion, music recording, and content creation.
A degree in modern music provides many different employment routes upon graduation, from performance roles, including recording artist and session musician; production roles, including songwriter, arranger, producer, and studio engineer; and roles in the live music industry, including live sound engineer and promoter.
Dan Donnelly is one of the directors at NAME.
He's a songwriter, solo performer, and lead guitarist for the Folk Rock band, The Levellers.
He has written and recorded chart-topping records and singles, touring the globe multiple times.
He has 14 years of experience running courses and teaching music in the UK.
Barry Hyde is one of the directors at NAME.
He's a composer, multi-instrumentalist, and lead singer of The Futureheads.
He's written and recorded chart-topping singles and albums, toured as a solo artist and with his band, and also supported bands such as The Foo Fighters, Oasis, and Muse.
Peter Brewis is a producer, composer, and multi-instrumentalist.
As one-half of Mercury Music nominated act Field Music, he's been making records for many years including the UK top 30 album Open Here.
He continues to record and play music while also teaching composition and production for NAME, where he is a senior lecturer.
Page last updated:  09 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-media-production:
Get practical training in TV and radio.
Pitch to industry professionals and go live on air in our award-winning radio station.
Join a course which best prepares you for a career in the industry.
There’s never been a better time to get into content creation – we’re watching, listening, making, and broadcasting more media than ever before.
This course will give you the practical skills to join this expanding industry and make engaging content for TV, radio, podcasts, social media, and online.
Taught by experienced experts , using fantastic facilities, you’ll develop and pitch ideas to industry practitioners and undertake placements to build your network.
Our students have taken advantage of our relationships with BBC, Capital FM, Sunderland AFC, Tyne Tees Television, Made in Tyne and Wear, and various production companies, as well as our very own internationally award-winning Spark Sunderland .
Graduate with a degree that shows off your specialism.
In your final year, you can choose from BA (Hons) Media Production, BA (Hons) Media Production (TV), or BA (Hons) Media Production (Radio).
This is a practical-based course with a 70/30 split.
The majority of teaching and assessment is based on skills, coursework, and content creation, often in groups.
The rest may be presentations, essays, critical evaluations, self-review, and reports.
The first year is all about building your skills.
You’ll be introduced to the studios, the equipment, relevant software, and the various roles within TV and radio.
This prepares you to concentrate on content creation in the second year, while you explore roles and specialisms.
By your final year, you’re ready to delve into the discipline you love, take on your preferred role, pitching and developing proposals, and delivering a finished piece to professional standards.
Work experience is an integral part of the course, and throughout your time with us, you'll be encouraged to continuously liaise with the TV and radio industry about work experience placements and industry-ran masterclasses.
All modules are taught during the day and you'll be studying alongside full-time students.
Dive into the world of single camera video production and sound recording.
Explore the essential skills and techniques used by filmmakers and sound designers to craft compelling short videos.
You’ll learn how to shoot, plan, and produce your own short video project.
You’ll work as a team to create a Production File that shows your full process, this includes everything from research and scripting to call sheets, compliance, and final edits.
At the same time, you’ll explore the art and technique of sound.
Work in a real studio environment to produce two short shows, one drama and one factual entertainment.
Explore a range of TV formats and learn how studio teams bring them to life.
Get to grips with key roles, production skills, and new virtual studio techniques.
Working with others, you’ll plan, shoot, and deliver creative studio content from concept to final recording.
Discover how to create audio content that connects.
Whether it’s a podcast or a radio show, you’ll develop practical production skills while making content for Spark, our award-winning student radio station.
With over 90% of the UK tuning into radio and podcast listening on the rise, there’s never been a better time to get into audio.
This is your chance to explore the creative power of sound and make work people want to listen to.
Discover what it takes to succeed in the creative industries, beyond just the hands-on production work.
With a focus on short-form content and self-shooting, you’ll respond to a professional brief by creating your own digital media pieces.
Dive into the history of media broadcasting and reflect on how the industry has evolved.
Most importantly, you’ll start to map out your own path in today’s fast-changing creative world.
Explore the documentary form through both theory and practice.
Learn how to plan, research, and produce your own documentary while engaging with narrative structure, ethical issues, and critical ideas.
Working in a production group, you’ll pitch your idea to a panel and take on real production roles.
This will enable you to develop skills in camera work, lighting, sound, production management, post-production, and digital workflows.
Prepare for a career in the creative industries.
Uncover what it takes to freelance, go self-employed, or even launch your own creative business.
Gain practical advice and support through workshops, guest input, and group activities.
Learn how to map out ideas using tools like the Business Model Canvas, craft a strong creative CV, and build online profiles that get you noticed.
You’ll also pitch a business idea and develop key skills to help you stand out in the competitive creative world.
Work in a small team to develop a portfolio of studio-based content for Spark TV.
You’ll take on a variety of production and research roles, applying key media theories while developing original broadcast material.
Gain advanced skills in post-production, outside broadcasting techniques, and TV format development.
All while learning how to bring ideas to life in a live or studio setting.
This is your chance to think creatively, collaborate professionally, and make content that’s ready to go on screen.
How do you tell powerful stories using just sound?
Discover how audio can be used as a creative platform to share stories, ideas, and experiences.
Working in teams, you’ll produce original content for both broadcast radio and podcast, building your skills in storytelling, collaboration, and technical production.
With a focus on industry-facing experience, you’ll learn how producers use audio to connect with audiences, whether through factual stories, fiction, or creative formats.
From radio to podcast apps, you’ll see why audio remains one of the most exciting and accessible global platforms today.
Ready to turn your idea into a standout media project?
Lay the groundwork for your Final Major Project through focused research, workshops, and practical development.
Explore production roles, media technologies, and creative techniques while shaping your idea into a professional piece of work.
Choose from three strands: Film/TV, radio/podcast, or feature film script and begin developing content that reflects your creative and career goals.
Bring your project to life.
Turn your development plan into a finished piece of creative work.
Working independently with guidance from a supervisor, you’ll take full control of the production process, from shooting or recording to editing and final delivery.
Use studio, location, and post-production facilities to craft a project ready for distribution.
You’ll also take part in a group presentation to critically reflect on the production journey.
Gain hands-on experience producing and presenting content for Spark, our award-winning student media platform.
From radio and podcasting to video and live broadcasts, you’ll work in our MediaHub to create content that reflects your interests and career goals.
Respond to live briefs, meet tight deadlines, and take on real production roles, whether that’s hosting a radio show, producing a podcast, or supporting a live TV shoot.
As a result, you'll have built a portfolio of work that showcases your skills in a real-world media environment.
Work in small groups to create a professional 3–5 minute video, audio project, or documentary for a real client.
Your project will showcase your technical skills in visuals, sound mixing, editing, and grading, reflecting what you’ve learned over your three years of study.
Alongside production, you’ll develop industry knowledge and career ready skills.
Individually, you’ll create a 1–2 minute showreel featuring your best work, upload it online, and prepare a professional CV to help launch your career.
We have digital resources and support tailored for your course including Box of Broadcasts (BoB) an on-demand TV and radio streaming service; Kanopy to access films; and a collection of DVDs for you to borrow, you're welcome to film in the library too.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle and Tyne & Wear TV, who are both based here.
Volunteer with award-winning radio station, Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine in our mediaHUB.
Get hands on in TV and radio studios, journalism and digital editing suites.
If you're studying an HND or Foundation Degree, you may be able to enter the final year of our degree course.
This degree prepares you for careers in TV, radio, video, and new media industries.
Your training in communication, teamwork, and creativity will be highly relevant to roles in many different businesses and in the public sector.
Recent graduates from Sunderland have gained jobs with employers such as the BBC, Radio 1, Channel 4, Sky TV, Capital North East, I Daniel Blake, MTV, and professional production companies.
You could also choose to continue your studies with a master's degree, such as MA Radio, Audio and Podcasting or MA Media Production (Film and Television) .
Recently, this has included our visiting professors Dr Alex Connock, Fellow in Marketing at Oxford University; Emmy award winner, David Quantick; and Nick Smith, Executive Vice President at All3Media.
We encourage you to take part in competitions; our students have won awards from organisations such as the Royal Television Society.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be guided and supported by our experts, all of whom are working or researching in media.
You’ll study alongside scriptwriters, film makers, radio producers, presenters, and independent film producers who'll share their experience and encourage you to build your network.
Our staff and students consistently win big at the Royal Television Awards .
BA Media Production is accredited by ScreenSkills who awards the quality mark of the Tick to practice-based degree courses that most effectively provide students with the skills and knowledge required by employers in the screen industries.
For employers, the Tick signposts work-ready graduates and apprentices from creative courses that have proven to understand and have links with the screen industry.
Graduates from Tick courses have privileged access to Trainee Finder , a service that matches trainees with companies across the UK’s animation, film, games, high-end TV, and VFX industries.
0191 515 3000 student.helpline@sunderland.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-illustration-design:
Push the boundaries of illustration using a blend of traditional and digital techniques.
Develop your own style and release your personal creativity.
Perfect your craft alongside experienced academics and like-minded peers.
Become industry-ready and launch your career as an illustrator or designer.
Are you passionate about drawing?
Full of creative ideas?
Illustration and Design will cultivate your talents.
Here at Sunderland, we encourage you to push the boundaries of illustration, blending traditional techniques with computer technology, such as virtual reality and 3D design.
You can also combine illustration with other areas, including animation, graphics, advertising, 3D illustration, and web design.
You’ll explore design principles, printmaking, and drawing in your first year, before pursuing a specialist study of illustration during your second and final year.
You’ll perfect your craft alongside experienced academics who are all practicing professionals at the cutting edge of their field, bringing their industry insights and experience directly into their teaching.
Throughout the course you’ll build and develop a creative, industry-ready portfolio that will help launch your career as an illustrator or graphic designer, or any other role where these creative skills are needed.
Teaching sessions are made up of a combination of personal one to one meetings with design tutors and group critiques designed to encourage team working and to create a community vibe among the year groups.
This is supported by lectures, seminars, workshops and independent learning.
You'll have access to studio spaces outside of teaching time, which facilitates reflection on work and peer evaluation.
Feedback is given regularly during teaching sessions and at the end of the semester in order for you to develop your work to the highest standard and also to reflect on how you might have approached the project differently.
Your first year of study introduces you to a range of different media and focuses on the fundamental skills of illustration including observational drawing, printmaking, animation and digital drawing and painting.
You'll then progress onto stages 2 and 3 where you'll narrow your focus and develop your own personal style of illustration through open briefs based on real-world commercial projects.
You'll have the opportunity to apply to undertake an optional placement year out in industry between your second and final year, this is sometimes known as a sandwich degree.
At the end of your final year you'll have the opportunity to exhibit your work at the end of year degree show.
The show is open to the public and invited guests in order for you to showcase your portfolio and meet potential employers from the design sector.
Students can study part-time and must pass 80 credits per year to progress to the next stage.
360 credits must be gained over the whole three years to graduate (the same number as full-time students).
How can traditional media help shape your voice as an illustrator?
Develop your visual skills through life drawing, painting, and mixed media.
You’ll build a body of work that reflects your growing abilities, from initial concept to final illustration.
Alongside practical projects, you’ll explore visual research and key principles of communication, gaining insight into contemporary illustration and design.
This module lays a strong foundation for your creative development.
Want to bring your ideas to life using digital tools?
Build a strong foundation in digital illustration, whether you’re a beginner or already have experience.
You’ll explore the creative potential of Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign through industry-inspired projects, learning how to use each programmes strengths while building key design skills for contemporary illustration.
Ready to get hands-on with printmaking?
Experiment with bold, physical techniques like Collagraph, Reduction Linocut, and Drypoint to create work that can’t be made digitally.
Discover how print can fuel your creativity, as you explore the work of past and present printmakers.
You’ll also dive into the ideas behind the art, connecting your practical work with design theory and history to build a strong foundation for your creative journey
How do you bring a story to life through pictures?
Explore the art of visual storytelling.
Learn how to create powerful narratives through children’s books, graphic novels, and storyboards for film and animation.
You’ll build core skills in line, colour, composition, and character design, while discovering how illustrators shape the worlds and emotions within a story.
Alongside your creative work, you’ll explore the theory and history behind visual storytelling, and reflect on the illustrator’s unique power and responsibility in shaping how stories are told.
What does it mean to be an illustrator today?
Dive into the exciting world of contemporary illustration across both print and digital media.
Take on creative projects that challenge you to think imaginatively, solve visual problems, and build strong technical skills.
Through industry-inspired assignments, you’ll start developing your own portfolio and gain insight into where your work fits within the wider world of illustration.
Along the way, you’ll learn to reflect on your process, push creative boundaries, and draw inspiration from a wide range of sources.
How can digital tools enhance your traditional illustration skills?
Building on what you learned in Stage 1, this module dives deeper into digital illustration through painting, 3D, and animation techniques.
Explore how to blend analogue media like paint, pencil, and pastels with digital tools to create rich, layered artwork.
Through creative briefs, you’ll produce portfolio pieces while developing your understanding of key issues in digital image making, like AI and ethical representation.
Curious about how your illustrations can come to life in print?
Explore a range of techniques in the print room, learning how to transform your work into stunning screen-printed and transfer-printed artworks.
Expand your visual language, experiment with new processes, and build a unique set of pieces for your portfolio.
You'll explore the value of hand-crafted work and consider sustainable approaches to printmaking in today’s creative world.
With tutor support, you’ll explore potential job roles, build key skills like writing CVs, applying for jobs, and creating a personal brand.
You’ll gain real-world experience through a short placement or industry project, and develop a portfolio or showreel to showcase your work.
You’ll also build an online presence and get insights from industry talks, visits, and workshops to help you plan your next steps.
Reflect on your creative journey to identify the key skills and industry standards needed for success in your chosen field.
Through research and exploration of advanced techniques, develop innovative work that aligns with your specialism and supports your future career.
Stay up-to-date with trends, expectations, and essential skills to ensure your practice remains relevant and industry-ready.
Build a strong foundation for your future career in your chosen creative field.
Develop key employability skills like portfolio building, CV writing, interview preparation, and refining your online presence.
Explore the differences between working in a studio and freelancing, and understand the creative and technical abilities employers are looking for.
Strengthen your ability to make informed career choices that match your strengths and goals, and create a flexible, adaptable career plan.
Learn how to professionally present your portfolio and confidently showcase your skills to potential employers.
What drives your creative ideas, and how do you turn them into something real?
Develop bold concepts and strategic plans through advanced research and creative thinking, laying a strong foundation for your major project in Semester 2.
Deepen your understanding of the cultural and contextual influences on design, and learn to express your creative identity with clarity and confidence.
Use innovative techniques to generate ideas grounded in research or storytelling.
Refine your work through workshops, testing, and prototyping and build the skills to transform concepts into impactful, well-crafted outcomes.
This is a pivotal moment to showcase the skills, creativity, and vision you’ve developed throughout your creative journey.
Build on the research, planning, and pre-production from EXD312, and use feedback to refine your artistic direction into a bold, innovative final outcome.
This project is your opportunity to resolve past learning into a substantial piece of work that takes centre stage in your portfolio and helps prepare you for your next steps in the creative industries.
You’ll also explore strategies and creative approaches to curate and present your final work for the end-of-year exhibition.
The University provides generous studio spaces, well-equipped workshops and excellent facilities for design students
Digital suites: our digital design suites are equipped with Apple Macs, PCs, HTC VIVE VR and Wacom Cintiqs with Adobe Creative Suite Design Premium.
Software: ZBrush, Unity 3D, Maya, Blender, Cinema 4D, Dreamweaver and Adobe Creative Suites.
Our specialist technical staff, including qualified Adobe and Maya Certified Instructors, offer back-up and help in making the most of the software.
Extensive pre-production, process, finishing equipment: from 3D design and printing, bookbinding, vinyl and large format printing, animation and VR, as well as laser-cutting and wood and metal workshops.
Technical support: Along with our software specialist, we have a team of experienced technicians - specialists in their fields who are on hand to support you to realise your vision.
Thanks to a major renovation programme, the Priestman Building provides state-of-the-art teaching space and resources as part of a vibrant and creative learning environment.
If you are studying a HND or Foundation Degree you may be able to enter the final year of our degree courses.
Applicants wishing to be considered for direct entry to Level 2/3 should contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk.
We also require you to prepare a portfolio of work for your interview.
Interview/portfolio requirements We’ll invite you to an informal interview where we'd like to see evidence of your creative potential.
Please prepare a portfolio of work you have completed so far.
We're not looking for perfection as we appreciate you may still be developing work.
We would like to see: A variety of work – we want to see a range of styles and technique Work completed in or outside of your studies Ideas that you feel didn’t work Research: examples of various forms of investigation Photographs of 3D, and large 2D, work A USB stick or online link with any digital and screen-based work Accompanied by work in progress, sketchbooks, and development work If you are an international applicant, please send a link to your online portfolio.
We’ll invite you to an informal interview where we'd like to see evidence of your creative potential.
If you are an international applicant, please send a link to your online portfolio.
Throughout the course you'll build a creative and industry ready portfolio that will help you launch a career as an illustrator or graphic designer, or take up any other roles where creative skills are important.
You'll exhibit your work at our final year Degree Show, visited by industry professionals and creative employers and may have the opportunity to take your work to London.
Our graduates have gone on to work in a variety of illustration and design roles, such as freelance illustrators for Oxford University Press, The Guardian newspaper, Hallmark cards, design studios at the Open University and Virgin's design department.
Other students have gone on to be employed in design companies throughout the UK and many choose to progress onto our MA Design course.
Our graduates go on to have diverse careers.
One of our graduates works for a publishing house in Japan, dealing with the design and illustration of children's wildlife books.
Another was offered a three-book contract at a New Designers Graduate Show and has subsequently won further contracts for illustrations.
Many graduates also operate as freelancers as part of a 'portfolio career' alongside other creative work.
They create illustrations for advertising, packaging and editorial purposes.
Whatever route you choose, your course will put you on a fast track to getting work published and recognised.
You'll have opportunities to apply for internships and other live projects where you can work alongside professional illustrators and designers.
In addition, our academic team organises visits to arts and design venues and companies in London and across the UK.
This is to provide you with the opportunity to travel around London and visit illustration agencies, design studios and experience private viewings of famous artwork at the British Museum.
We hold specific 'employability days' to help give you that essential cutting edge.
We invite former graduates and employers to come into the University to look at student portfolios and give advice.
Through our connection with the Association of Illustrators and strong links with professional illustrators, we are able to attract a range of top names to give guest lectures.
The input of these internationally-known speakers helps broaden your learning and provide fresh perspectives.
Page last updated:  22 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-graphic-design:
Excel as a creative visual thinker and communicator.
Study a wide range of modules covering topics including visual communication, motion design and visual effects, and experience design.
Graduate with a portfolio of work that showcases your creative development and skills, all of which will impress prospective employers.
Our passionate and highly experienced staff understand how to nurture talent and are dedicated to building your confidence, knowledge and design skills that will help you to succeed within the creative industries.
We have fantastic facilities, award-winning students and alumni, and a focus on employability and cutting-edge professional skills.
The Graphic Design team combine teaching with professional practice in a variety of fields including: graphic design, branding, illustration, exhibition and experience design.
As well as editorial, print, web and mobile interface, packaging, 3D (digital/physical/Augmented Reality (AR)/Virtual Reality (VR)), animation and motion graphics.
Each bring their industry insights and experience directly into teaching and, when coupled with influential guest speakers, enriches your student experience and ensures that the course meets the needs of an exciting and dynamic industry.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, group work and e-learning, with support and a structure that helps you develop independent study skills.
You'll take advantage of the University's specialist learning communities, knowledge structures, facilities, computer suites and enhanced techniques to develop a command of core and advanced creative skillsets.
Year 1 focuses on skills and knowledge acquisition and development, applied across a comprehensive range of techniques, both studio and software-based.
Moving into year 2, you'll focus on idea and conceptual development, while honing technical skills for a broad range of print and screen-based outcomes.
In your final year, professional practice is underpinned by further theoretical, conceptual and technical development that culminates in a major project that defines your practice, interests, skills and knowledge.
If you study this course on a part-time basis you'll typically complete 40-80 credits in a year, rather than the 120 credits of full-time students.
All modules are taught during the normal working hours and you will be studying as a member of the full-time cohort.
Interested in how design comes to life on print and screen?
Gain hands-on experience with industry tools and software through workshops, lectures, and projects.
Explore key design principles like typography, image-making, and visual communication, which will enable you to build a solid foundation for your creative growth.
Want to understand how visuals communicate powerful messages?
Explore techniques like semiotics and Gestalt theory to develop your visual intelligence.
Learn how visual forms work in fields like advertising and graphic design, and build your independent skills in graphic research, typography, visual analysis, and image creation.
Curious about how motion brings designs to life?
Explore motion graphics and moving images to enhance your design skills.
Learn core techniques to create, design, and edit motion design projects using industry software and hardware.
Through this process, you’ll build confidence as a motion designer and discover how kinetic design fits into the wider creative industry.
Ready to take your first steps into the creative industry?
Build a clear career focus and boost your confidence in navigating the world of work.
With tutor support, you’ll explore different roles and learn key job skills like finding employers, tailoring your CV, self-branding, interview techniques, and presenting your work.
You’ll also gain experience through short placements, live projects, competitions, or collaborations to prepare you for a creative career.
Get a basic introduction to the historical, theoretical and fundamental principles of typography and design.
Follow this up with in depth practical research on typography, image creation and advanced layout techniques using new technology and traditional processes.
How can motion design tell stories and influence people?
Building on skills from stage one, you'll explore advanced motion and cinematic techniques to create eye-catching graphics for professional use.
Whether working alone or in teams, you’ll experiment with motion graphics and special effects to craft designs that persuade, inform, and inspire through the power of movement.
How can graphic design push boundaries and change the way we communicate?
Discover how Graphic Communication goes beyond traditional design by breaking and redefining the rules.
Develop your creativity by challenging usual design outcomes and exploring fresh, innovative ideas that connect deeply with today’s culture.
What kind of graphic designer do you want to be?
Focus on areas of graphic design that interest you most, working on at least two creative projects, one of which may be a live client brief.
You’ll develop professional, portfolio-ready work that shows off your skills and helps you take the next step toward a career in graphic design.
What makes you stand out as a designer?
This portfolio development module helps you build a strong professional identity, with a focus on industry awareness, career planning, and self-promotion.
You’ll create promotional materials tailored to the kind of work you want, and write a personal design manifesto that defines your values, skills, and future direction.
You’ll also explore the realities of both employed and self-employed career paths, giving you the insight to choose the route that suits you best.
What big idea will define your final project?
Research, plan, and propose a major piece of work (or series of projects) within clear deadlines.
You’ll explore the cultural, historical, and theoretical influences on design to help position your own creative practice.
Using the right mix of tools, methods, and media, you’ll produce a strong, professional body of work that clearly communicates your ideas and vision.
The Department of Glass and Ceramics is based in the National Glass Centre , a nationally recognised glass production and exhibition centre with world-class production facilities and a programme of international exhibitions and creative projects.
Studying here puts you at the heart of an international network of professionals in the glass and ceramics sector.
You will be exposed to the most modern techniques in glass and ceramics art, with access to world-class production facilities.
Through the Centre’s visiting artists and designers programme, you will have the opportunity to learn from internationally renowned, high-profile artists currently working in the glass and ceramics field.
You will also be given access to and the opportunity to work on cutting-edge contemporary exhibitions to help launch your career.
National Glass Centre is also home to the Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art, which has a long history of showing cutting edge contemporary art.
Candidates wishing to be considered for direct entry to Level 2/3 should contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk.
Throughout the course we'll support you to launch your design career.
You'll develop a creative and industry-ready portfolio, access work placements, attend employability days and put your designs on show to the public.
On modules such as ‘Graphic Design and Professional Practice', you'll also receive valuable advice on a variety of work-related topics.
These range from costing and business plans to going freelance, self-promotion, self-employment, enterprise, careers, networking and copyright issues.
You'll also develop a Professional Engagement Document.
This highlights all your self-development activities and engagement with industry, as well as other factors that give you an edge compared to other graduates.
Our graduates have gone on to work all over the globe in graphic design, editorial, infographics, motion graphics, advertising, web, packaging, experience and interactive design.
Our graduates boast employment at Everything Different, Ordinance Survey, MTV, Sitel Group, Newcastle Football Club, Sports Direct, Initials Marketing, Cravens, Blumilk, Frontier (games) and SEGA.
Most work in the creative industries of publishing, design consultancies and advertising design, while others prefer self-employment.
This creative degree can also open doors into many other careers, such as teaching, or further study to Masters or Doctorate level.
We encourage you to participate in competitions and award schemes including those run by the Design and Art Directors Association (of which we are a corporate member).
Such competitions are part of building up a compelling creative portfolio.
In your final year you'll display your work at our annual Degree Show, attended by industry experts and potential employers.
You may also have the opportunity to take your work to London.
In addition, our academic team organises visits to arts venues across the UK and in cities such as Edinburgh, Barcelona, Amsterdam, Paris and New York.
Our London campus hosts a visit each year, providing access to the varied museums and galleries and opportunities to visit studios such as JRK Global, Anyways and Ogilvy.
We hold specific ‘employability days’ to help give our students that essential cutting edge.
We invite graduates and employers to come into the University in order to look at student portfolios and give advice.
Through our links with industry, we also attract professionals in graphic design to come in and give talks throughout the year.
These help you gain valuable insights and contacts in the world of work.
Our creative spaces and conferences attract acclaimed guest speakers from across the design world, such as Andy Altmann (Why Not Associates) and Andy Sandoz, an Honorary graduate and former president of the internationally influential Design and Art Direction.
To find out more about our guest speakers visit Creative Lives.
Creative Industries Week gives everyone in Arts and Creative the opportunity to participate in a range of projects, workshops, talks, industry visits and career events.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-fine-art:
Discover and develop your own perspective and ideas within contemporary art.
Explore your creative interests across a broad range of Fine Art practice and work collaboratively with peers and professional artists in our artist community.
Graduate well prepared for a creative career with a strong portfolio of work that will impress prospective employers.
Britain’s creative industries are worth £92 billion, employ two million people and are growing twice as fast as the rest of the economy.
This course will give you the skills to join this growing industry.
The tradition of art runs deep at Sunderland, but we don’t stand still.
We’ve built on this history and experience, adding innovation and modern teaching approaches to create a course that gives our graduates the edge.
Our Fine Art team, all working artists, have a wealth of professional practice and subject expertise to help you realise your art aspirations.
Guided by these experts you'll have the freedom to explore your creative interests across a broad range of Fine Art practice including painting, printmaking, digital photography, film, sound, drawing, sculpture and performance.
Working collaboratively, you’ll learn to see the bigger picture and will develop highly adaptable skills, alongside your technical abilities.
Throughout the course you’ll work towards live outcomes, building your confidence as an artist to promote yourself, your art and to understand the impact you can have as an artist in society.
You’ll be taught via a mix of lectures, seminars, workshops, tutorials and studio-practice.
You’ll be allocated your own studio space from day one.
This will be your space to build and develop your creativity alongside fellow students.
The first year is all about exploration.
You’ll experience a range of working methods, honing and testing your technical, making and artistic ability, while building your studio practice.
At the end of the year you’ll show your achievements at your first exhibition.
In the second year you’ll start to link your artistic practice with live experiences.
You’ll work collaboratively with students from other disciplines in the ‘Integrated Creativity’ module; replicating the practice of some the world’s biggest artists who draw on a range of creative talents.
You’ll also start to consider your place in society; how you want to work and where your art can take you.
You’ll undertake a project with a live outcome that could be a group exhibition, a workshop in the community or a project with a local school.
All of this will also extend your understanding of the creative industries and develop your team working skills, which will be essential for professional life.
Your final year is about building your professional practice, skills and experience to prepare you for your Final Degree Show, graduation and beyond.
You’ll produce your own book, showing a window into your practice and skills, which will help you promote yourself to employers.
Understand what it takes to bid for funding or secure an exhibition space; all before critically selecting your work for public exhibition at your Degree Show.
Assessment methods vary between modules.
They include studio presentations of artwork, a variety of written projects, and exhibitions.
Part-time students study the same course as full-time students.
Curious about how artists work today?
Explore key methods like painting, printmaking, and digital imaging.
Through hands-on workshops, you’ll experiment with materials and processes, set up your own studio space, and begin shaping your creative voice.
You’ll also learn about sustainable art practices, develop material awareness, and make connections to contemporary fine art.
Plus, you'll be introduced to the full range of art and design workshop facilities to support your ideas.
What can drawing say about the world today?
Explore both traditional and modern approaches to drawing, using the studio and drawing lab to experiment with different materials, methods, and ideas.
You’ll consider how your choices impact the meaning of your work, engage with sustainable practices, and develop personal responses to contemporary themes through drawing.
How do artists use space, objects, and technology to bring ideas to life?
Explore expanded Fine Art practices including sculpture, 3D work, digital art, and installation.
You’ll develop your own learning plan, build practical skills, and solve creative problems through making.
Working towards a collaborative live studio exhibition, you’ll also think about how materials affect your work, how to create sustainably, and how art connects with real audiences.
An introduction to the histories, theories and ideas behind key moments in 20th and 21st century art.
Develop skills in researching, critical reflection, analysis, and forming arguments.
Build an understanding of the key themes in contemporary art.
You'll also introduce theoretical thinking, wider cultural enquiry and explore how to apply this to practical work.
How can your art express your ideas in a powerful and personal way?
Develop an independent project around a subject that matters to you.
You’ll explore materials, form, and meaning through studio practice and workshops, while planning and creating a finished piece.
You'll choose from a wide range of fine art methods, including painting, sculpture, video, or performance, and learn how to take an idea from concept to final work, all within a contemporary context.
How does art connect with the world around us?
Discover how contemporary fine art engages with society, challenges ideas, and supports inclusive, sustainable communities.
Explore how writing can strengthen your art practice and help communicate with different audiences.
By developing your critical thinking and reflecting on your studio work, you’ll deepen your understanding of the bigger role art can play in today’s world.
Will your art take shape in a gallery, or out in the wider world?
Develop an independent studio project leading to either an exhibition or a socially engaged outcome.
Place your ideas within real-world contexts, thinking about audience, space, and professional practice.
Through seminars and advanced workshops such as screen printing, cyanotype, video, sound, sculpture, and installation, you’ll refine your techniques and explore sustainable, adaptive ways of working to bring your project to life.
Take part in real-world projects, live briefs, and placements with arts and cultural organisations to understand the challenges and rewards of working in the creative industries.
Through weekly talks from professional artists and hands-on experience, you’ll build key skills like collaboration, resilience, adaptability, and creative problem-solving.
You’ll also build confidence, discovering that a career in the arts is not only achievable but also one of the most rewarding and exciting journeys you can pursue.
Are you ready to showcase your art professionally?
Prepare and exhibit a polished body of work while learning about curating.
Write about your art or explore topics like public art and community projects.
You’ll also present your work in a studio pitch, explaining your ideas and research clearly.
Plus, you’ll place your practice within contemporary art and society, gaining insights from artist talks and visits to regional galleries.
What topic related to your art are you interested in exploring further?
Undertake independent research connected to your studio practice.
Use library resources to strengthen your study and referencing skills, and work one-on-one with tutors to develop your chosen topic.
By the end, you’ll be able to plan and write a clear, organised report on your research.
Ready to bring your fine art project to life?
Spend a focused period in the studio creating work for your solo exhibition, your final degree assessment and public showcase.
Collaborate on producing a catalogue to accompany the show.
Your work will aim to communicate your ideas effectively within the fine art community.
Studio-based practice (where you have your own, personal, studio space) is the core to the Fine Art course and you will be allocated a generous sized individual studio space in Priestman Building.
You will also have additional project and exhibition spaces for paintings, prints and sculpture, plus digital installation and performance work, where ideas can be tested, outside of your individual space, providing an effective and discursive learning environment.
This includes our own ‘Shaun Project Space’ and ‘Gallery 007’ (our Fine Art, Digital, Photographic, Film, Sound Installation project space) where students can explore new ideas and engage in group discussions about their work.
Fine Art students will also have the opportunity to exhibit and gain experiences supporting the installation and curating public exhibitions in our large Faculty Priestman Gallery.
You will have access to excellently equipped workshops in printmaking, 3D printing, digital photography, digital sewing and embroidery, woodwork, metalwork and casting as well as support in the development of film and sound.
You also have access to FabLab on City Campus.
Thanks to a major renovation programme, the Priestman Building provides an excellent teaching space and resources as part of a vibrant and creative learning environment.
If you are studying an HND or Foundation Degree you may be able to enter the final year of our degree course.
Tuition fees for part-time students are £7,145 per 90 credits.
Fine artists gather skills that are essential to the world of work.
Creative thinkers are called for in a range of sectors beyond the creative industries thanks to the range of transferable skills.
This course is an opportunity for self-development and exploration.
We’ll support you to develop your professional practice, build your confidence as an artist to promote yourself and your art, help you to understand the impact you can have on society, and explore where your art can take you.
To enhance employability, we encourage you to develop a Professional Portfolio throughout your time at university.
This includes an online art blog and art book publication of your work, with an artist statement and a CV – this will be invaluable for promoting your skills to future employers.
We aim to prepare you to become a confident professional, with transferable skills.
Increasingly, creative workers follow a ‘portfolio’ career comprising a range of roles such as teaching in schools, colleges and universities; artist residencies; creative practitioner; and as a practising fine artist.
This makes for a really flexible lifestyle enabling you to extend your professional contacts, build your artistic practice and take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Many creative workers are self-employed, and this course provides sessions on becoming self-employed and our ‘Creative Lives’ lecture programme offers case studies of creative careers.
Destinations for Fine Art graduates also include public arts, curating and other areas within the creative industries.
Some of our graduates work as artists and show their work in commercial galleries.
Others have gone on to work in museums, galleries, and many different types of employment and self-employment.
This course will encourage you to consider employment options both in the creative sector as well as in other types of industry.
A number of our students have chosen to progress to postgraduate courses, such as our MA Visual Practice course, Teacher Training PGCE, PCET SCITT teacher training courses.
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/film-production:
Launch your career in film on our Screenskills-accredited course.
Work in our thriving media centre's sector-leading studios.
Turn your creative vision into reality alongside our award-winning students.
Passionate about film?
Excited about movies?
Want to work in film or produce high-end TV?
Do you want the opportunity to direct short films and documentaries?
Or are you interested in becoming a cinematographer or editor?
If you’ve said yes to any of the above, this course is for you.
Explore filmmaking, documentary production, directing, cinematography, and scriptwriting or editing.
Develop practical skills and theoretical knowledge that'll set you up for your own exciting and rewarding career, turning your creativity into reality.
Through practical projects, you'll develop skills in screenwriting, camera, sound, editing, lighting, colour grading, producing, and directing.
Learn from our highly experienced and skilled lecturing team, using first-class equipment.
From day one, you’ll have access to specialised digital cameras, sound recording equipment, lighting kit, Steadicam rigs, and professional editing software packages such as Avid Media Composer, Adobe Premier Pro, and Da Vinci Resolve.
Through lectures, workshops and project work, you'll learn practical skills and develop your knowledge in a variety of filmmaking roles to set you up for a career in the film and TV industry.
Our teaching methods develop subject-specific knowledge and transferable skills that enhance employability.
These include skills in communication, analysis, research, teamwork, writing, and presentations.
You'll be taught via lectures, demonstrations, workshops, seminars, screenings, group and individual projects, and independent learning.
Assessment methods include portfolios of practical work (short films, documentaries, advertisements, music videos, showreels, scripts), production files, essays, examinations, reports, and presentations.
How do stories come to life on screen?
Explore both the creative and technical sides of storytelling, focusing on scriptwriting and film analysis.
You’ll research, develop projects, and write scripts mainly for short-form stories, while learning key ideas about narrative, genre, and characters.
You’ll also delve into important film concepts like realism, authorship, and how audiences connect with stories, giving you a well-rounded understanding of what makes a great film.
How do filmmakers turn stories into powerful images that captivate audiences?
Explore how cinematic narratives come alive through visual storytelling.
You’ll learn the key principles of visual language , like composition, movement, and use of spac e, and see how they create stories that stick with viewers.
Through hands-on projects, technical exercises, and historical research, you’ll develop the skills to craft your own compelling visual narratives that connect with audiences across film, TV, and beyond.
Form a production company and take your project through every stage, from developing and scripting to performing, shooting, and editing.
Develop skills in directing, producing, camera work, lighting, sound, editing, and managing the production process.
Working in teams, you’ll tackle industry challenges like directing actors and meeting deadlines with creativity and professionalism.
You’ll also explore crowdfunding and digital marketing to help your film reach an audience.
Dive into a range of dramatic genres like thrillers, comedies, horror, and romance.
Uncover how each genre influences story structure and audience expectations across both traditional media and immersive platforms.
Working collaboratively, you’ll create projects that balance classic genre conventions with fresh, creative twists.
By analysing both classic and modern examples, you’ll sharpen your skills in genre storytelling and experiment with new ways to engage audiences.
What makes a great TV drama or comedy?
Explore the craft of scriptwriting for television and streaming platforms like Netflix or Amazon.
Learn how to take an idea from concept to treatment, and finally turn it into a script.
Along the way, you’ll study the work of key screenwriters, gaining insight into how great stories are written and brought to life on screen.
How can storytelling become an immersive experience?
Explore cutting-edge ways to transform traditional narratives into dynamic, immersive worlds.
Master advanced techniques in spatial design and production to engage audiences like never before.
Through hands-on workshops, you’ll blend classic filmmaking skills with emerging technologies to create bold, boundary-pushing content that meets the future of storytelling and industry needs.
Master key post-production skills.
This includes editing, sound design, colour correction, and VFX, using industry-leading software.
You’ll learn how collaboration drives the process and how post-production shapes storytelling.
Build your creativity, technical speed, and organization.
Your skills will develop progressively, culminating in a fully finished video project.
This module prepares you for professional roles in post-production teams and environments.
Deepen your understanding of cinematography by exploring its artistic, technical, and historical sides.
Get stuck in with camera operation, lighting, framing, and shot composition tools that bring stories to life on screen.
You’ll also study film theory to see how cinematography shapes narrative, emotion, and style.
A special focus will be given to moving camera techniques, with an eye on current film and TV industry practices.
Choose from three strands: Film/TV, Radio/Podcast, or Feature Film Script, and begin developing content that reflects your creative and career goals.
How can film create real change in communities?
Produce short films for clients that highlight important social issues.
You’ll balance creative storytelling with ethical responsibility, learning essential production skills through workshops covering safeguarding, visual storytelling, and set management.
Work closely with actors and community members, developing expertise in ethical documentary production.
Your final films will be showcased at the Sunderland University Gala Police Awards, demonstrating both social impact and professional skill.
Ready to showcase your skills and work with real clients?
Develop the practical skills essential for a career in film, TV, or media.
Working in small groups, you’ll create a project, either for an external client or a documentary on a topic you choose.
You’ll also produce an individual showreel that highlights your technical and professional abilities gained throughout your studies, helping you stand out to future employers.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle and Tyne & Wear TV, who are both based in the building.
Volunteer with award-winning Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine in our mediaHUB.
This degree prepares you for careers in the film and TV industries.
Our graduates have gained employment working as freelance crew on film sets and TV shows in a variety of roles such as camera trainee, Foley artist, cinematographer, digital content manager, production manager, editor, director, producer, script supervisor, sound recordist, production coordinator, and digital imaging technician.
Previous employers include the BBC, ITV, Pinewood Studios, and a huge variety of independent production companies.
Other graduates take a more entrepreneurial route and have set up their own production/media companies.
In every year of your course, you'll be guided and encouraged to gain meaningful experience that'll fit around your studies.
BA Film Production is accredited by ScreenSkills who awards the quality mark of the Tick to practice-based degree courses that most effectively provide students with the skills and knowledge required by employers in the screen industries.
View Programme Specifications for Arts and Creative Industries.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-film-media:
Study film and the fascinating world of the media.
Apply critical thinking and analysis and develop the transferable skills of problem solving, communication, and presentation.
Combine academic research with practical application, developing the talents to join an exciting and ever-changing industry.
Love film and all aspects of media?
Gain personal professional, academic, and production skills from studying film and media theory alongside practical-based modules in film production.
You can do a research-based placement, write a script, or produce video essays.
You’ll cover the historical contexts and contemporary debates in film, media, and culture, and explore the relationships between film and media content and real-world impact.
You’ll work with established research-active academics at the Centre for Research in Media and Cultural Studies and study alongside scriptwriters, film makers, and media practitioners.
Share, discuss, challenge, and explore your passion for film, TV, and other aspects of the media with like-minded people.
Get involved with extracurricular activities, including:
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, group work, and e-learning.
Assessment methods include essays, reports, written coursework, projects, presentations, and exams.
What shapes the films we watch today?
Explore key ideas, theories, and methods that help us understand cinema’s history and how films are analysed.
You’ll learn how history, politics, technology, and culture influence the way films are made and seen.
You’ll also develop practical skills in writing, visual analysis, and presenting your ideas clearly, both in speech and in writing.
Want to create stunning photos and videos?
This module teaches you the technical skills and creative techniques needed to produce both still images and moving pictures.
Through hands-on workshops, exercises, and discussions, you’ll learn how to compose and capture powerful visuals.
You’ll work solo to create a photograph and write about its composition.
Then, you’ll join a small team to produce a video, keeping track of your group’s work and your own contributions in a detailed Production File.
How does media shape the world we live in?
This module explores the role of media culture in today’s society, tracing its history and how it influences our daily lives.
You’ll learn to analyse media texts and cultural practices critically, building skills in evaluation and academic argument.
By the end, you’ll understand how power works within media and culture and be confident in discussing these ideas clearly.
Why does cinema matter?
Uncover the social impact of film and how it’s understood in the world of academia, the film industry, and the media.
You’ll look at cinema as both a global art form and a product, examining how it’s made, watched, and valued in different cultures.
Through this, you’ll build skills in critical thinking and project development, helping you see film not just as entertainment, but as a powerful force in society.
How do news and factual content shape what we know and how society works?
Dive into the role of fact-based media across TV, online platforms, and beyond.
D evelop skills to analyse how media influences public knowledge and democracy, exploring current issues and important theories.
By creating your factual media, you’ll gain a strong understanding of how media messages are built and why they matter.
How does everyday media shape who we are?
Explore the history and importance of media research, especially in a world where technology and media habits are constantly changing.
Learn about key research studies and develop your own practical research project, or take up a placement if you choose.
By the end, you’ll have a deeper understanding of how media use connects to identity, beliefs, and behaviour.
As well as valuable research and problem-solving skills you can use in both academic and professional settings.
What lies beneath the surface of popular culture?
Challenge accepted ideas and explore how everyday media, trends, and cultural practices can reflect or hide deeper inequalities.
Using tools from British Cultural Studies, including Marxism, feminism, and postmodernism, you’ll learn to critically analyse cultural texts and practices, from the mainstream to the niche.
You’ll develop your own timely, thought provoking commentary that questions the norms and power structures shaping our world.
What happens to films and media that disappear?
Explore the world of forgotten, hidden, or at risk media.
Learn how to find, question, and understand the factors that make some films and media vulnerable to being lost over time.
From archiving challenges and censorship to copyright issues and cultural shifts, you’ll uncover the reasons behind disappearing media histories and explore how we can better preserve them for the future.
What do French comedies, political dramas, and cultural shifts have in common?
This module explores how French films both popular and unconventional, reflect and challenge society.
You’ll learn to analyse film through practical theory and even get hands-on by planning and running your own mini film festival.
Have you ever wondered how movies grab your attention through sight and sound?
Dive into advanced theories about how films engage your senses and shape your experience as an audience member.
How do visual and audio elements work together to create suspense, romance, horror, or empathy?
You’ll explore these themes through lively discussions and critical thinking, using ideas from film and popular culture studies and, most importantly, you’ll learn how to apply these theories yourself.
You'll also have the option to choose which final project to complete:
Ready to take your interests further?
This module helps you develop strong, independent research skills while exploring a topic you care about in film, media, culture, or communications.
How do you gather and apply advanced research methods to answer real questions?
How can media theory help you make sense of what you find?
You’ll learn to think critically, manage your project from start to finish, and communicate your ideas clearly through writing and presentations.
OR
Have a story you’re burning to tell?
This project gives you the chance to write a major script for film, television, or radio, all based on your original idea.
You’ll work independently to create a complete, stand alone piece.
That could be a 45 minute radio play, a 50-60 minute TV drama, or a feature length film script.
We have four journalism suites, each with Apple Mac workstations with industry-standard software including NewsCutter, Burli and ENPS.
Our mediaHUB, a bustling newsroom and home to a team of BBC Newcastle journalists, is responsible for our suite of websites and provides a variety of experiences.
Tyne & Wear TV are just downstairs, offering placements to students and jobs to several of our graduates.
Learn in our 203-seat cinema and 7.1 surround sound facility.
Access two broadcast-quality production studios complete with green room and changing facilities and equipment such as Steadicam rigs, track and mini crane.
Go on-air in one of five radio studios, including a larger radio drama studio and a transmission suite for Spark , our award winning student-run community radio station.
Build transferable skills and gain experience to get career ready.
Open job opportunities such as teaching, consultancy, TV and film production, new media, marketing and research, PR, advertising, and more.
Recent graduates from Sunderland have gained jobs with employers such as BBC (including Radio 1), Channel 4, Sky TV, MTV, The Guardian, I Daniel Blake, Capital North East, regional newspapers, and PR companies.
You could choose to continue your studies on one of our master's degrees such as MA Media Production (Film and Television) or MA Journalism .
You can choose to undertake a number of practice modules throughout your course, which can include live briefs from clients from outside the University.
Many students get involved in Spark Sunderland , a community radio station based at the University.
Students are responsible for all news-gathering, programme production, and advertising.
Spark has won many awards including four golds at the Student Radio Awards 2012, and holds the Nations and Regions Award for Best Radio Station in the North East.
Work alongside BBC Newcastle Journalists in our mediaHUB , home to student-run websites covering sport, news, entertainment, fashion, and Spark online magazine.
Sunderland's daily newspaper, The Sunderland Echo, has a weekly page called 'On Campus' that is written entirely by students at the University.
It’s an opportunity to find and research your own stories, take photographs, meet deadlines, and see your name in print.
Throughout the course, we invite guest speakers to run workshops and masterclasses that allow you to relate your learning to real-life opportunities.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/english/undergraduate-english:
If you are applying for the full time course from within the UK click apply now
Acquire skills in pitching, presenting and networking.
Work with established organisations and develop your portfolio for a varied and fulfilling writing career.
Find your creative writing voice and develop your talent while learning a range of exciting professional careers.
You'll hone your skills in fiction, non-fiction, scriptwriting, poetry, and digital storytelling alongside exploring other professional opportunities such as games narrative, journalism, marketing and public relations.
You'll explore contexts such as gender, identity, post-colonialism, and eco-criticism, both in your own writing and as a reader, while receiving feedback on your work from published writers and academic experts.
You'll undertake a placement in the second year where you will gain key industry experience.
In your final year, you will produce a major piece of writing to reflect your interests with support from lecturers and industry professionals.
You'll be taught via lectures and seminars, with access to our online teaching environment (VLE).
Our teaching is designed to help you become an active, independent, and reflective learner.
Lectures are used to communicate the core content of modules, while seminars and workshops provide you with the opportunity to develop your knowledge and skills through a range of tutor-guided activities, including creative writing practice, peer review groups, and redrafting, as well as more academic skills such as close textual analysis, and the guided reading of primary and secondary material.
We'll encourage you to work in pairs and in small groups, as well as individually.
You'll be assessed via portfolios of creative work, essays, through innovative measures such as pitches, group projects and presentations.
There'll also be the chance to take up an industry placement.
You'll also be supported through one-to-ones with academic staff during office hours or online, depending on teaching conditions.
Are you curious about how language works and how to use it creatively?
Discover how people speak differently across the UK and what that reveals about society.
Learn to write stories and poems using various styles from past and present.
In workshops, share your writing, receive feedback, and improve your skills together.
It's a great way to start your journey into language and writing.
Ever wondered how books are made – or who helps bring them to life?
This module introduces you to the world of publishing.
You'll learn about different jobs like writing, editing, marketing, and more.
We'll also talk about why it's important to hear from all kinds of voices, especially those that are often left out.
You'll get to practice skills like proofreading and presenting.
These will help you when you take on work placements in creative companies across the UK.
Want to know how to write powerful short stories and poems?
This module helps you craft flash fiction and very short stories that pack a punch.
Learn how to build a complete story in just a few words, using techniques like starting in the middle, keeping characters to a minimum, and making every word count.
You'll also discover poetry, identifying how forms like haikus and sonnets use rhyme, rhythm, and structure to express deep emotions and ideas.
Love movies?
Want to write your own?
This module helps you understand what makes a great story and how to write short film scripts that connect with audiences.
You’ll explore storytelling basics like character, dialogue, plot, and genre, while learning how to turn your ideas into scripts that come alive on screen.
You’ll also dive into big film ideas: Is film meant to show real life or offer escape?
What makes a star more than just an actor?
How do visuals like lighting and costume help tell the story?
By mixing theory with hands-on practice, you’ll watch, think, write, and create, gaining skills in both screenwriting and film analysis.
Are you ready to turn your writing skills into professional success?
Gain hands-on experience in the writing industry.
Develop your CV and cover letter, identify and propose a suitable placement opportunity and gain practical experience in an organisation that values creative and professional writing.
Discover how to write engaging feature stories for digital audiences.
Learn to create original long-form content, optimise it for online platforms using SEO and analytics, and identify trending topics through tools like Google Trends and social media.
Practice crafting compelling pitches to editors and understand the importance of multimedia in storytelling.
By the end, you'll have a portfolio of polished features ready for publication.
Ever dreamed of writing for Netflix, Amazon, or the BBC?
This module is your introduction to the world of scriptwriting for TV, film, stage, and audio.
You'll explore how to turn a simple idea into a fully developed script with strong characters, exciting plots, and sharp dialogue.
You’ll also learn the basics of genre, like horror, sci-fi, sitcoms, or thrillers.
You’ll study legendary writers like Phoebe Waller-Bridge and Harold Pinter to understand what makes a script truly stand out.
You’ll leave the module with a deeper understanding of screenwriting and the tools to keep developing your voice as a writer.
Ever wondered how language influences storytelling and connects with diverse audiences?
This module delves into sociolinguistic concepts, examining how dialects, sociolects, and cultural markers shape narratives.
You'll learn to craft authentic dialogue that reflects characters' identities and communities, enhancing the realism and engagement of your writing.
By studying various forms of dialogue across texts and media, from novels to podcasts, you'll discover techniques to captivate different audiences.
Have a big idea you want to explore in your writing?
This module gives you the time and support to create a major project in a topic you care about.
You'll work closely with your supervisor and an industry mentor to shape, develop and improve your idea, step by step.
Want to work in publishing or the wider literary world?
Build the advanced skills you’ll need for careers in writing, editing, marketing, and book-related roles, whether that be as an author, editor, publisher, publicist, proofreader, or marketer.
You’ll explore how creative projects come to life through teamwork and collaboration.
You’ll also learn how to manage a real project like a book, journal, or digital storytelling piece, from start to finish.
Through a mix of lectures, seminars, and self-directed work, you’ll develop skills in coming up with ideas, editing and proofreading, presenting, and planning marketing strategies.
What makes a crime novel gripping?
Or sci-fi story believable?
You’ll start by looking at different genres and what makes them work.
Then, you’ll choose one to focus on and write your own final piece of creative writing.
Along the way, you’ll build practical skills in pitching ideas, editing, and understanding how genre shapes creative work.
We have digital resources and support tailored for your course including: The MLA International Bibliography a database literature, language, linguistics and folklore; Project Gutenberg over 50,000 free ebooks; and Voice of the Shuttle, online English literature.
See the English key resources for more information.
You'll be based at David Puttnam Media Centre, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's riverside campus.
You'll benefit from modern teaching rooms, presentation technologies, virtual learning environments such as Canvas and Microsoft Teams.
We also consider those coming from a non-traditional entry route and would like to see a sample of your creative or professional writing from your previous experience.
This course blends the best of a traditional English degree with innovative teaching and exciting connections to the creative industries both regionally and nationally to help budding writers, creatives and creators make your mark.
This is not a ‘traditional’ creative writing degree but one that prepares you for writing both creatively and professionally.
Whether you want to succeed as a poet or novelist, social content editor or games narrative designer, or want to learn about what’s needed to be a book publicist or copywriter, this degree puts the creative and writing professions within your reach.
The course introduces you to the skills necessary for the kinds of careers you will find across the creative industries in the 21 st century, and helps you get in and get on in the career you want.
You'll be well placed to enter many areas within the creative industries, such as literary agencies, publishing houses, galleries, museums, theatres, and writing development organisations, as well as across the journalism, media, marketing, communications and PR industries.
Potential jobs include: freelance writer, novelist, poet, games designer (narrative), publicist, publishing assistant, marketing, PR/communications, copywriter, advertising executive, digital writer, editor, content writer, content editor, proofreader, researcher, translator, journalist, reporter, scriptwriter, screenwriter, radio writer.
Many of our graduates work as editors, journalists, writers, teachers and within publishing.
Your course will keep you busy in class and across campus as you get involved with our publishing platforms.
As part of the course you’ll go on placement to organisations that suit your goals, from literary agencies to copywriting houses, including student writing residencies and opportunities in the region’s cultural venues and festivals.
You’ll have the opportunity to be involved in Spark Sunderland, the 24/7 community radio station, based in the David Puttnam Media Centre.
Spark is award-winning and has been consistently recognised at the Student Radio Awards, Community Radio Awards and the prestigious New York Festival Radio Awards for many years.
Students are responsible for programme production and creative ideas which could be your step into writing radio drama, or scripting comedy shows.
In the same building you can also learn from the many writers who work from here, including BBC Newcastle journalists and the team at Tyne & Wear TV, a professional TV station run from our Media Centre.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-animation-games-art:
Develop key digital skills in 2D and 3D animation.
Gain expertise in industry-standard software, learning traditional and new animation techniques.
Become industry-ready and unlock your potential to work on the next big animated movie or game.
The animation, games and visual effects (VFX) industries are always searching for new talent.
BA (Hons) Animation and Games Art allows you to explore and develop both traditional and new techniques, learning key digital skills in 2D and 3D as well as the core principles of character-led animation.
You'll have the opportunity to work on industry-led briefs and entries for festivals and competitions such as Encounters, RTS awards, 11 Second Club and E4 Stings.
We’re affiliated with Game Republic too, it's all part of our commitment to help you become industry ready.
We place Animation and Games Art within the broader context of design to help you keep your career options open.
You'll also have the creative freedom and flexibility to develop your specific areas of interest, gaining transferable skills crucial for employability.
Teaching is almost entirely practical and studio-based, supported by lectures, seminars and tutorials.
Our academic team encourage you to express ideas and push the boundaries of creativity.
Assessment is mainly through coursework.
In the first year you'll learn traditional animation techniques and core digital skills.
You'll also learn about the broader context of design with students from other design subjects.
In the second year you'll be introduced to more advanced concepts and approaches such as 3D, digital sculpting, VR and photogrammetry, character rigging and motion capture.
In your final year you'll focus on developing your portfolio and graduate identity, undertake a personal research project that will lead into your Final Major Project.
You'll exhibit your work at our Degree Show, which will be visited by industry experts and potential employers.
All modules are taught during the day time and you will be studying alongside full-time students.
Want to bring your ideas to life with animation?
In this course, you’ll learn the basics of movement, timing, and shape by trying out fun studio exercises.
How do characters move?
What makes animation feel real?
You’ll find out by creating your own short animated sequence using popular animation software.
You'll explore research and creative methods that help you tell better stories through animation.
By the end, you’ll have the skills to create your own animations and understand how they come together.
Dive into the world of drawing!
This module helps you master how to see and sketch people using the exploration of lines, shapes, tone and shading.
As well as light and perspective and gesture, volume and form.
You'll also learn how bones and muscles work, and bring that knowledge into both traditional drawing and digital art.
You’ll explore anatomy using digital medical labs, museum visits, life-drawing sessions and digital sculpture tools and software.
By the end, you’ll be confident drawing the human body in real life and digitally and you’ll have built a great portfolio along the way!
Step into the world of creative production and build a strong foundation in both traditional and digital techniques used across the creative industries.
This module is your hands-on introduction to how ideas become real from concept to final output.
You'll explore key tools, workflows, and animation techniques through fun and practical workshops.
Along the way, you'll develop essential studio skills like time management, teamwork, and problem-solving, all within a collaborative, professional environment.
By the end, you’ll have the confidence and experience to take on creative challenges with real-world insight and creative flair.
Explore the exciting world of 2D game art and digital production!
In this module, you’ll master essential skills and techniques using the latest studio practices to create vibrant, interactive game content.
You’ll get hands-on experience with game engines and pipelines, learning the key steps to bring your ideas to life within a 2D game workflow.
From digital animation to creative storytelling, you’ll discover how to make your game characters and worlds move and engage players in fun, imaginative ways.
Ready to bring your creative ideas to life?
Explore the early stages of creating a children’s TV series or a PEGI-12 rated game.
You’ll research and design characters, stories, environments, and more, building a clear plan for your project.
You’ll learn how to craft both linear and non-linear stories, write short scripts, and create animatics or walkthroughs that show your idea in action.
Plus, you’ll gain confidence in pitching your vision, learning how to share your ideas clearly and creatively.
How ready are you for your creative career?
This module helps you reflect on your journey so far and identify the key skills and industry standards you’ll need in your chosen field.
You’ll dive into advanced techniques, research the latest trends, and develop innovative projects that showcase your expertise.
By exploring what employers expect, you’ll build the confidence and knowledge to stand out and succeed in the creative industry.
Ready to create eye-catching visual effects that connect with audiences?
This module guides you through advanced 2D and 3D techniques and the digital pipelines professionals use.
You’ll have the chance to produce a music video, promo, trailer, or other creative project of your choice, all while mastering industry-standard software and studio practices.
You’ll also explore important topics like ethics and sustainability in your genre, learning how they shape your work.
Along the way, you’ll discover how to meet client needs and create projects that really resonate.
Develop a critical understanding of important issues linked to design such as the environment, globalisation, gender representation, equality and diversity.
Be encouraged to consider your ethical role as a developing designer.
Be introduced to ways of considering a major piece of written work (the dissertation in Stage 3), based on a subject relevant to your own practice.
Finish the module with a developing design philosophy that potentially impacts on your ways of working and thinking in terms of studio practice.
Explore different career paths and build confidence in finding your place in the creative world.
With support from tutors, you’ll discover possible roles that fit your skills and interests.
You’ll learn essential job skills like writing tailored CVs, creating personal branding, preparing for interviews, and presenting your work professionally.
You’ll also get real industry experience through work placements, live projects, competitions, or collaborations.
By the end, you’ll have a strong portfolio or showreel and an online presence to showcase your talents and connect with professionals.
You’ll gain valuable insights through workshops, talks, and studio visits, setting you up for success in your final year or a placement year.
How will you prepare yourself for a successful creative career?
Reflect on your creative journey so far and identify the key skills and industry standards you need to succeed in your chosen field.
You’ll research and master advanced techniques while exploring new and emerging trends.
Using your research, you’ll develop innovative projects that show off your strengths and align with what employers are looking for.
Along the way, you’ll learn what the creative industry expects and how to meet those standards with confidence.
Ready to launch your creative career?
This module helps you build the key skills employers look for, from creating a strong portfolio and writing effective CVs to mastering interview techniques and polishing your online presence.
You’ll learn the differences between working in a studio and freelancing, and develop the creative and technical skills needed to succeed in your chosen field.
Through practical tasks, you’ll showcase your versatility and prepare to stand out in the creative industry.
Build on the skills and knowledge, both technical and creative, that you have gained across all previous modules to create a piece of work that best reflects your specialism and will, hopefully, take you into professional employment.
Choose to work individually or as part of a team.
Set up and exhibit your work in the final year Degree Show, which is open to the public and industry practitioners.
What bold idea will you bring to life as your major project?
This is your chance to bring together everything you’ve learned and create something truly unique.
Building on your research, planning, and feedback from previous work, you’ll develop a strong creative vision and produce an impressive final outcome that showcases your skills and imagination.
This project is the centerpiece of your portfolio, helping you prepare for your future career by solving creative challenges and refining your craft.
You’ll also learn how to present your work professionally, ready for the final exhibition.
The David Puttnam Media Centre provides well-equipped facilities and industry-standard design software so it's easy to make a seamless transition from your studies to the workplace.
Direct entry to Level 2 or 3: Applicants wishing to be considered for direct entry to Level 2/3 should contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk .
I f you are studying an HND or Foundation Degree, you may be able to enter the final year of our degree courses.
For more information, contact studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk .
We would like to see: A variety of work – we want to see a range of styles and technique Work completed in or outside of your studies Research: examples of various forms of investigation Photographs of 3D, and large 2D, work A USB stick or online link with any digital and screen-based work Sketchbooks and development work including: Examples of character design/development Observational sketches Examples of sequential illustrations – eg rough storyboards If you are an international applicant, please send a link to your online portfolio.
Our graduates have gone on to work throughout the film, special effects, games, and television industries, and worked on projects including The Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter, Grand Theft Auto, Creature Comforts, Miffy and Hey Duggee.
Recent employers have included: animation studios such as Cartoon Saloon, Aardman and Studio AKA; TV companies such as Cartoon Network, CBeebies and CITV; games companies such as Rockstar, Ubisoft and Sumo Digital.
You'll have opportunities to apply for internships and we actively encourage you to build up a compelling creative portfolio.
We also encourage you to participate in competitions and award schemes.
In addition, you'll be encouraged to attend annual animation festivals such as the Manchester Animation Festival (MAF), as well as visits to arts venues across the UK and in cities such as Barcelona, Amsterdam and New York.
Through our links with industry we attract professionals in animation to come into the University and give talks.
Past visiting speakers include quadruple-BAFTA Award-winning Jardine Sage (CITV) - a graduate of the course, Curtis Jobling (creator of Bob the Builder), Susannah Shaw (Aardman), Barry Purves (Lord of the Rings), alumni and award-winning Catherine Salkeld (Story Artist and VR director at Blue Zoo Studios), and Andy Davies (Sony Games).
All students studying on-campus undergraduate Animation and Games Art courses can take up a CV-enhancing work placement, a University-led industry initiative, or a professional and business development boot camp.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-sports-journalism:
Sky Sports News, BBC Sport, Manchester United FC, golf’s Ryder Cup, the Williams F1 team, national newspapers – these are just a few examples of careers that all started with BA (Hons) Sports Journalism.
Report from the press box at Wembley Stadium, interview club executives, visit some of Europe’s finest football stadia, report on professional county cricket, produce your own website, sports TV episode, or series of investigative sports articles – all while learning the latest techniques in digital, video, and broadcast production sports journalism and studying for UK journalism’s gold standard qualification, the NCTJ Diploma .
In the first year – the foundation year – you'll study five modules.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move onto the Sports Journalism honours degree course.
The English, Journalism and Media Integrated Foundation Year includes five modules:
Get an introduction to a variety of skills that are intended to ease the transition into Higher Education.
Learn what is expected of you as an undergraduate student and how to adjust to degree level study.
While the module is based around independent learning, tutors are on hand to guide the process through the use of weekly surgeries.</p
Explore a range of storytelling styles employed across the media and the different strategies used to appeal to different audiences.
Look at the structure, style and purpose of feature writing, reviews, interviews and news reporting.
Build your own portfolio of work, featuring a range of written stories created in the various styles and develop your writing skills, with particular focus on spelling, grammar and punctuation.
Find out why learning the law is essential for any accomplished reporter
The annual fee for this course is £9,535  if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
This degree prepares you for writing and talking about sports in newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, and online media, as well as for clubs or brands.
Recent journalism graduates from Sunderland have gained experiences with employers such as Sky Sports, NFL, 4ThePlayer, The Racing Post, MTV, The Guardian, ITV, regional newspapers, and PR companies.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle Journalists, get advice from former Sky News Journalists, and see a newsroom in action in our innovative mediaHUB.
You’ll be taught in some of your classes by visiting lecturers who are current sports writers, editors, and football club media managers.
Our academics are industry experts and have excellent relationships across sports including PFA (Professional Footballers' Association) magazine, 4ThePlayer, Sky Sports, ITV, and BBC.
Broaden your horizons with inspiring trips; recently students have enjoyed trips to Barcelona, press access to Wembley finals, and Europa league games at FC Schalke 04 in Germany.
In addition, our students have also covered tennis, golf, boxing, American Football, F1, hockey, gymnastics, and many other sports.
You'll undertake a work placement module in your final year, though many of our students arrange placements across all three years.
The placement can be at a sports newsdesk, sports magazine, or sports club of your choice.
Our students and graduates have been making a splash, winning awards and prizes across the board.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/social-media-management:
Almost every employer, from Nike to Netflix, has a social media presence.
Develop the skills and experience you need to meet the growing demand for social media managers across a wide range of industries and learn how to grow and engage your audiences as a content creator.
You'll experiment with your own social media channels and grow and engage your own digital communities.
Learn to create engaging content and use analytics and attribution to prove impact and understand your audience.
Develop social media strategies and organic and paid campaigns, combining integrated communications approaches across public relations and digital marketing.
Delve into ideas about how to communicate, influence, and persuade, and explore what makes content shareable and engaging.
Throughout the course, you'll get hands-on experience, including managing social media channels and planning social media and PR campaigns and strategies for real clients.
You'll also undertake a week-long placement, building contacts and connections in the industry.
You'll study a degree with multiple accreditations: the course is accredited by the Digital Marketing Institute (DMI) ; our public relations modules are accredited by the CIPR, the industry’s leading body; and the Media Law module is accredited by the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) .
You can graduate with an extra qualification from the NCTJ, proving you are legally and ethically safe to publish content.
By the end of this course, you'll have the skills, knowledge, and experience you need to pursue a career in social media, content, and communications, whether that's as an employee, a content creator, freelancer or digital nomad, or business owner and entrepreneur.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move on to BA (Hons) Social Media Management three-year degree.
Find out where a degree in social media can take you
You can get involved in award-winning community radio station, Spark Sunderland , which is based in the building, and create online and social media content for our fashion, news, sport and culture websites in our mediaHUB.
This degree will equip you with the skills you need to be a social media manager across a wide range of businesses and organisations – working in social media means you can work in almost any sector that you’re interested in, or you can choose to work for yourself.
You’ll also have the skills and qualities to pursue a career in other social media, content creation, community management, and public relations roles, and you’ll have work experience and a media law qualification to help set you apart.
Our graduates working in social media and PR have been employed by companies including Ubisoft, Tombola, Sunderland City Council, SAFC, Rangers TV, What Culture, Stylist, MTV, Elle, and more.
During the course, you’ll be working on live briefs for real clients, developing social media campaigns and strategies, PR campaigns, and branded video marketing campaigns.
In our mediaHUB, you can create social content and develop strategies for our public-facing fashion, sport, news, and culture websites and award-winning community radio station, Spark.
You also have the opportunity to get involved in the Marketing Hub which matches students with marketing clients.
The academics teaching you on this course are RTS and CIPR award-winning content creators, media law experts, public relations practitioners, tv producers, journalists, and industry researchers, and have excellent relationships across a broad range of social media, fashion, sport, PR, and media industries.
We have links with Rich Keith from Yogscast who also runs influencer marketing company, Fourth Floor.
Our faculty’s visiting professors include video and e-commerce entrepreneur, Dr Alex Connock, and Good Morning Britain news editor, Neil Thompson.
You'll complete a week-long placement in your second year, but you can get support from the Employability and Enterprise Hub to set up work experience, get an industry mentor, and even find relevant paid work at any time during your degree.
We regularly get offers for our students to take on placements and internships and work on CV-boosting projects.
We’ve had opportunities to work with travel bloggers, create social media campaigns for stately homes, create videos for food companies, and much more.
During the degree, you'll work on creating content and strategies for your own social media channels and communities, as well as projects for real clients.
Have a look at Twitch stream ImpliedLies , and online community What the Flix , which helps viewers find the best shows on Netflix – both created by our current students as part of their studies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/screen-performance:
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move on to BA (Hons) Screen Performance three-year degree.
Discover how to get the most out of your screen performance degree
Each year, our good friend Lord David Puttnam, Oscar-winning film producer, takes a handful of students under his wing in a unique mentoring opportunity.
The Puttnam Scholars attend a series of interactive seminars about the film industry, while undertaking a project set by Lord Puttnam himself.
Learn more about The Lord Puttnam Scholars Scheme
On every year of your course, you'll be guided and encouraged to gain meaningful experience that'll fit around your studies.
Previous masterclasses have been delivered by:
We have excellent links with national employers such as the BBC and ITV, and strong links with regional productions like Vera and The Dumping Ground.
Creative Industries Week allows everyone to participate in a range of projects, workshops, talks, industry visits, and career events.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/integrated-performing-arts:
Study in a multidisciplinary way – which you will know is reflective of the industry.
Experiment with new things and create a personal pathway with a focus on dance, drama, or musical theatre, or a mix of all three.
Build the necessary skills to succeed in Higher Education, recognise your own strengths and idiosyncrasies, and establish yourself as an employable practitioner.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move on to BA (Hons) Performing Arts three-year course.
Dance City and Live Theatre have studios just a stone’s throw from campus.
Our academic team have an extensive network of professional, educational, and community contacts in the region.
Extracurricular classes are available throughout the year with a range of guest teachers, for example, musical theatre repertoire with touring cast members, one to one vocal lessons, yoga, character development, street dance, and harmony singing.
Your involvement in these performances develops skills in marketing, design, and communication with venues.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/photography-video-digital:
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Photography, Video and Digital Imaging course, with an integrated foundation year.
Gain the confidence, knowledge, and skills to start a successful career in the creative industries.
Gain wide-ranging skills needed for success in today’s photographic industries and beyond.
You’ll learn how to make high quality digital and traditional images in our professional photography studios, digital production suites, and photographic darkrooms.
Our students have gone on to work in a whole range of areas such as medical, music, sports, and events photography, working as studio and gallery assistants, curating, running commercial photography businesses, teaching, community and social work, and publishing.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move onto the Photography, Video and Digital Imaging honours degree course.
Gain a range of essential photographic and video skills and an understanding of the work of photographers, past and present.
Explore the studio, street, and darkroom as locations for photography.
Learn the key aspects of staged and realist photography and how they overlap.
Build your experience across different technical skills including how to use DSLR and 35mm film cameras.
Develop skills in:
Explore a wide range of digital and analogue image editing techniques and production processes.
Be introduced to key digital techniques and editing software, exploring how digital montage can be both seamless and non-seamless.
Explore a range of alternative darkroom print processes which enable a completely different way of thinking of photographic technologies and photographic experience.
Get hands-on experience of a range of different photographic technologies and be able to develop your own work using appropriate methods to express your emerging creative ideas.
Become confident in using the resources in the Northern Centre of Photography and develop your skills as a learner and a practitioner.
Begin to develop your own approach to making work and learn how to research and learn from the work of other practitioners through the integration of research and study skills with photographic practice.
Participate in technical workshops that will introduce you to relevant software and hardware (cameras) for producing moving-image work.
Attend complementary screenings, lectures and seminar discussions, from early video practitioners to contemporary practice and the impact of YouTube.
Produce your own creative moving image piece that demonstrates your skills in:
Develop your practical and conceptual skills, while learning how to work effectively with others and getting your work out into the world.
Learn how to become an engaging visual storyteller and how to initiate and complete your own individual, self-directed project.
Employ a professional approach to your working practice through research, production skills, editing and effective time-management, and with enhanced skills in:
Learn how to initiate and resolve a body of work and present it in a public context.
Gain experience in producing, presenting and advertising your own work.
Begin to find a place for your work in society and build your professional profile.
Develop enhanced skills in:
Explore some of the main debates and issues in contemporary lens-based practice.
Discuss topics in lecture presentations, seminars, and workshops, supported by small group tutorials.
Identify practitioners and modes of professional practice to inform your own creative approach, while gaining enhanced transferable skills in:
Prepare for real-world and ‘live’ collaborative creative projects.
Build your work experience, establish, and enhance your creative and professional networks and broaden your understanding of graduate opportunities, creative enterprise, and career pathways.
Gain skills to:
Acquire advanced skills for in-depth, practice-led exploration.
Produce resolved bodies of work to deadline and be able to communicate your professional attributes to clients, audiences, and future employers.
Develop the critical thinking, academic and research skills for future study.
Identify an individual area of interest and develop an in-depth, practice-led exploration.
Learn how to research, present, and pitch your visual ideas to prospective clients and audiences.
Develop a self-negotiated practical project that is ready for public presentation in an appropriate context, media, and format.
Work with a subject matter, theme, topic, or issue of your choosing, and fully reflect on the ethics and environmental footprint of your work.
Select where and how the final work can reach its intended audience, for instance in a physical space, online, or through print publication.
Demonstrate your advanced skills to:
Explore in depth a specific aspect of the theory, history or contemporary practice of photography, video, and digital imaging.
Devise a research topic with help from module tutors and produce either an extended piece of academic writing or an equivalent extended visual research presentation, with advanced skills to:
Advance your understanding of professional photographic practices, creative careers, professional networks, and approaches to enterprise.
Build a careers and professional practice research portfolio with case studies enabling you to understand and negotiate your own pathway and to identify opportunities within the contemporary cultural and professional environment.
Gain advanced skills to:
By studying BA (Hons) Photography, Video and Digital Imaging or MA Visual Practice: Photography, you’ll have access to well-equipped photographic and studio facilities at the Northern Centre of Photography.
Learn more about our photography facilities.
Learn more about our photography facilities
This could mean working collaboratively as part of a creative team, undertaking an internship or placement in business, or working on a commission through our Sunderland Creatives Agency.
You’ll also find out about routes into teaching and other postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-media-production:
Join a course which prepares you for a career in the industry.
Taught by experienced experts and using fantastic facilities, you’ll develop and pitch ideas to industry practitioners and undertake placements to build your network.
By your final year, you’re ready to delve into the discipline you love, take on your preferred role, pitching and developing proposals and delivering a finished piece to professional standards.
Work experience is an integral part of the course, and throughout your time with us, you'll be encouraged to continuously liaise with the TV and radio industry with work experience placements and industry-ran masterclasses.
Focus on the basic concepts, procedures and techniques employed in a modern television studio.
Gain and introduction to a wide variety of production roles (vision mixer, floor manager, camera operator, director, lighting director, etc.), and produce a short multi-camera studio programme for a specific audience.
Discover new and exciting virtual production techniques and explore how this can be used in real-time to fundamentally transform traditional production methods, from planning to the production itself.
Learn the key skills of storytelling through workshops on narratives and formats and use those skills to inform your work and your professional development.
Work on the production of an independently written short script as well as a treatment and pitch.
Learn how to develop an idea through to treatment stage, and finally into scripts suitable for short films, TV/streaming service, radio, or podcast.
Cover genre, narrative structure, plot lines and character development and learn how to format a script for various forms.
Develop your critical awareness in relation to your own work and that of others and develop your analytical skills and understanding of conceptual issues in relation to scriptwriting and the finished product.
Gain an introduction to the procedures and techniques of single camera video production.
Learn the technical practices and creative skills required to produce a video.
Originate, develop, script, shoot and edit a production of three minutes in length, working in a production crew.
Develop the skills needed to competently record and mix audio with the appropriate hardware and software.
Consider how sound operates as a standalone element, how it affects the listener and how it interacts and informs other types of media such as film and television and online.
Evaluate the roles of practitioners within the industry.
Trace the evolution of broadcasting from its technological beginnings in the nineteenth century through its institutional birth in 1922.
Explore significant historical, regulatory and institutional developments in relation to radio and television.
Look at various broadcasting contexts, from the creation of public service models of broadcasting through to the arrival of commercial competitors, and at the relationship between various mediums and platforms and their respective audiences.
Produce a range of work that introduces you to the core skills of radio and podcast production.
Develop a range of skills including studio operation and playout software, podcast production, interviewing, and scripting for live radio.
Build up a portfolio of work, which will feature the production of a podcast and a live radio programme on our community radio station.
Work with others as well as independently to help you develop confidence and skills in the fast-moving and expanding industry.
Devise, develop and deliver a short documentary in groups.
Analyse the documentary form and further develop production skills such as planning, organisation, production management, camera, lighting, sound, digital workflow, and post-production techniques.
Develop contextual, practical and critical skills you’ll need to survive in the screen and audio industries.
Focus on mapping your employment journey through different industry sectors and make media content about this via a podcast and digital content.
Set up work placements and make professional contacts in the creative industries.
Learn about essential legal, ethical, compliance and diversity issues.
Meet key industry and University services such as BBC Careers Hub; ScreenSkills, mandy (and other directories and agencies), North East Screen; the University’s Enterprise Centre, the Employability and Enterprise Hub, the Digital Incubator and Faculty initiatives Media Hub, Spark platforms and the Sunderland Creatives Agency.
Develop a critical understanding of the role and importance of fact-based media output across multiple platforms, from broadcast content to diverse internet-based publishers.
Gain analytical and evaluative skills through analyses of media discourses impacting upon public knowledge and the effective functioning of democracy while exploring a range of relevant contemporary topics and theories.
Complete the module with a robust understanding of the interplay between the construction of media messaging, their communicative value and effectiveness, and the public’s response.
Learn about the power of telling stories in sound, producing two creative audio productions – a documentary and an audio drama.
Research ideas, record interviews and sound effects, and produce soundscapes and creative sound design for documentary and podcast production.
Explore the inherent creativity of audio/radio drama production from script to final mix studying the use of dialogue, acoustics, music, sound effects and sound design.
Develop concepts and techniques used in multi-camera studio production and gain an introduction to live video streaming and social formats.
Work as a part of a team to produce a live studio-based production based on a genre of your choice (chat, quiz, debate, magazine, children’s show, arts programme, current affairs, music programme, etc.) Research, devise plan, script and broadcast this 10-minute programme live via video streaming at a pre-determined time.
Learn more advanced techniques in studio lighting, multi camera production, studio sound and lighting.
Produce an individual treatment and proposal for an original TV format of your choice.
Expand the post-production knowledge and skills that you have acquired at Stage 1 with a primary focus on Adobe Premiere Pro, After Effects and Audition.
Develop an understanding of visual editing, motion graphics/video effects and audio from a dramatic/artistic perspective and then focus your skill sets on crafting a fully realised video project.
Finish, check and deliver a project after critically assessing its strengths and weakness.
Develop your understanding of moving cameras, their images and the impact of those images on screen.
Explore and learn to control moving camera equipment including Steadicams, Track and Dollies, Jib-arm, and sliders in order to create professional moving compositions.
Explore the key ideas behind the medium of podcasting and develop the practical and professional skills needed to produce your own podcast series.
Develop a critical understanding of the industrial links between Advertising and Branding and Quality Television Drama (and many other types of media) in terms of their historical development and production.
Gain analytical and evaluative skills by examining the current issues and debates about the impact of media on society.
Finish the module with a robust knowledge of the intertwined concerns of creating content, creating profit and the necessity for analysis of media output and industrial systems to maintain a healthy, democratic society.
Produce a major piece of work across the academic year, bringing together all of the skills you’ve developed so far.
Work individually or in groups to produce a piece of work that demonstrates your skills, ideas and ambitions.
Produce a factual entertainment documentary for a television audience, a series of videos for social media, drama, podcasts, or a radio documentary.
Pitch any idea you like before working with tutors to develop your ideas through to production.
Develop skills and knowledge to prepare you for working in the screen and audio industries.
Produce work that responds to live brief in film, video, podcast, or radio.
Conduct some research work into the media industries to help you explore and evaluate the opportunities for finding work.
Work in small groups and find a client to create a high-end corporate video project.
Demonstrate your technical ability in creating professional visuals effective audio levels/mixing/score, and professional editing/grade.
Produce a video that showcases your development over the three years of your studies.
Create a video showreel of your best work from this module and upload it to an online platform, highlighting your professionalism and technical ability.
Build and develop the key skills used in the production of a narrative podcast documentary.
Learn you the skills needed to record interviews, prepare scripts, and mix a documentary podcast of up to 15 minutes.
Explore one of the major growth areas in media production – audio drama.
Listen to audio drama podcasts and radio dramas before you letting your own imagination take over as you begin to explore the unique world of audio drama by making your own production.
Learn about audience for audio drama, distribution platforms as well as practically studying scriptwriting for audio drama, the creative use of acoustics, how to direct a cast and performance techniques, sound effects recording, sound design and mixing.
Focus on the genre of Factual Entertainment, one of the most widely consumed formats of television production today, and which encompasses several types of non-scripted non-fiction programming via a variety of popular and accessible formats.
Develop the skills you need to produce your own contribution to this hugely popular genre and working in small groups you will produce either a 10-minute documentary of your choice, or you can work on a live industry brief to create a pilot (or taster tape) for an original factual entertainment format of your own devising.
For any budding filmmaker, receiving recognition from the Royal Television Society is not only acknowledgement of the quality of your work, but can also lead you to a career within the industry.
Natacha Richardson and Ellie King achieved this at this year’s awards, triumphing in the Comedy and Entertainment category for their film, The Family Food Fight.
Learn how to triumph at the RTS Awards
Develop your skills in one of our 70 workstations with state-of-the-art HD Edit systems, including Avid Media Composer, Premier Pro and Adobe Creative Cloud suite.
You’ll also access our digital audio postproduction area with voiceover booths.
Volunteer with award-winning Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites, or edit Spark Magazine in our mediaHUB.
Get hands-on in TV and Radio Studios, Journalism and Digital editing suites.
Recent graduates from Sunderland have gained jobs with employers such as the BBC, Channel 4, Sky TV, Capital North East, I Daniel Blake, MTV, and professional production companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-journalism:
Become a journalist from the day you arrive and work for our award-winning radio station and websites.
On the BA (Hons) Journalism course, you'll learn all the essential skills of journalism, producing content for a wide range of print and online platforms while working in our own newsroom under the guidance of staff who've worked for the likes of the Mirror, Grazia, Private Eye, and many more.
We'll teach you how to write and research news stories and feature articles; create video and interactive content; design newspaper, web, and magazine pages; and become adept in using all the latest digital storytelling tools for websites and social media.
A key element of this course is the range of optional subjects you can take.
Among them are modules in sports writing, fashion journalism, public relations, and investigative journalism.
In this module, you'll build on traditional journalism skills while learning to create interactive and immersive news content.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle and Tyne & Wear TV, which are both based in the building.
This journalism degree prepares you for a wide range of careers in newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, public relations, and new media industries.
It's also highly relevant to many positions in industry, commerce, and the Civil Service, as well as to jobs in the arts and voluntary sectors.
Rub shoulders with BBC Newcastle journalists, get advice from former Sky News journalists, and see a newsroom in action at Tyne & Wear TV, a professional TV station run from our Media Centre.
Spark has won many awards including four golds at the Student Radio Awards 2012, and holds the Nations and Regions Award for Best Radio Station in the North East.
Our experienced academics have years of industry expertise at high levels in print, online, and broadcasting, including the BBC, Daily Mirror, Grazia, Private Eye, and Sky.
Meet regional and national high-profile journalists such as Kevin Maguire, Associate Editor at the Daily Mirror and Visiting Professor in Journalism at the University.
He regularly visits the University along with a host of experienced journalists to give insight into the industry via masterclasses and lectures.
Recent BA (Hons) Journalism student placements include The Guardian, the Daily Mirror, and the Daily Mail.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/illustration-design:
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Illustration and Design course, with an integrated foundation year.
Push the boundaries of illustration.
Enter the inspiring world of professional illustration.
We encourage you to push the boundaries of illustration, blending traditional techniques with computer technology, such as virtual reality and 3D design.
You’ll perfect your craft alongside experienced academics who are all practising professionals at the cutting edge of their field, bringing their industry insights and experience directly into their teaching.
Throughout the course you’ll build and develop a creative, industry-ready portfolio that'll help launch your career as an illustrator or graphic designer, or any other role where these creative skills are needed.
After completion of this foundation, you'll then move onto the Illustration and Design honours degree course.
Your second year introduces you to a range of different media and focuses on the fundamental skills of illustration including observational drawing, printmaking, animation, and digital drawing and painting.
In your third and fourth year, you'll narrow your focus and develop your own personal style of illustration through open briefs based on real-world commercial projects.
You'll have the opportunity to exhibit your work at the end of year Degree Show.
Feedback is given regularly during teaching sessions and at the end of the semester in order for you to develop your work to the highest standard, and also to reflect on how you might have approached the project differently.
This is supported by lectures, seminars, workshops, and independent learning.
Develop a knowledge and understanding of the important theoretical and historical contexts which have shaped modern design, opening up creative possibilities in your work.
Gain a broad view of design disciplines, through lectures and seminars intended to provoke wider debate.
Develop analytical and research skills by exploring subjects in design theory and history through assignments.
Finish the module with an understanding of various historical and theoretical ideas, intended to encourage you to challenge conventional thinking.
Develop your visual experience and knowledge through the practice of traditional media and life drawing.
Work with a wide range of traditional media and techniques through various set projects, culminating in a body of work that reflects your emerging skills as an illustrator.
Support your creative practice through visual research by exploring the subject of Art and Design.
Gain an introduction to the principles of communication as well as an understanding of contemporary illustration and design.
Build a strong foundation for further development by producing images from concept to final illustration and creatively explore various methods both in taught sessions and independently.
Gain a solid foundation in digital illustration, whether you are beginner or already use digital applications within your workflow.
Discover the artistic potential of the three core programs used in contemporary illustration practice: Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign.
Bring your ideas to life with industry inspired assignments tailored to suit the unique capabilities of each piece of software while learning key design skills.
Develop the fundamental methods required for professional printmaking by learning a range of skills through the use and application of Collagraph, Reduction Linocut and Drypoint printing.
Discover how printmaking can spark and enhance your creative process through the study and reflection of historical and contemporary printmakers within the creative industry.
Explore the possibilities of printmaking and its ability to create vibrant physical artwork that can be replicated multiple times through a wide range of methods in a unique form beyond the capabilities of digital format.
Learn to tell stories that inform, entertain, and enthral through the use of narrative and sequential illustration.
This module encompasses all the key methods of visual storytelling from children’s books to graphic novels and storyboards for film and animation.
Develop the fundamental skills and understanding of the use of line, value, colour and composition in relation to visual narrative and learn ways to depict imaginary worlds and the characters and environments that inhabit them.
Learn the about the enormous influence the illustrator has on the story they tell.
Continue your development of digital skills with a series of lectures and seminars dedicated to all aspects of digital illustration.
These include bitmap (Photoshop or similar), and vector (Illustrator) as well as techniques including composite images and 3D.
Augment your traditional skillset with a fusion of analogue media (paint, pencils, pastels, etc.) with digital media.
Create artwork using your favourite traditional methods and bring them in to your chosen package to create work that has a traditional feel but with an enhanced appearance using blending modes and digital adjustments.
Add to your growing portfolio with a set of digital illustrations based on creative briefs.
Gain an introduction to the broad subject of contemporary illustration practice and its application in print and digital media.
Experience aspects of working in the industry through assignments that reflect the real world.
Explore and expand the boundaries of illustration by developing problem-solving and self-critical evaluation skills and exploiting a wide range of influences to help your visual development.
Develop desktop publishing skills that enable you to create effective, appealing layouts in order to display your work in the most effective way possible.
Explore the varied processes and techniques of the print room and through a range of image making skills that offer the potential to extend your visual vocabulary.
Learn how to turn your illustrations into beautiful screen-printed and transfer printed artworks.
Immerse yourself in the technical possibilities of this versatile medium and develop valuable new additions for your illustrative portfolio.
Experience a short work placement with an employer.
Alternatively, gain other experience of working in the creative industries.
Examples include: live jobs; competition briefs; a creative placement; and a collaboration with fellow students from relevant subject areas.
Develop and consolidate a personal aesthetic and way of working through practical projects.
Take a more individual approach to your work through a choice of projects tailored to your own goals and aspirations.
Connect with industry by entering illustration competitions in which the work will be judged alongside the work of students from other UK institutions, and develop a strategy for professional engagement.
Work in a self- motivated way around a given subject, developing your own in-depth inquiring look.
Develop an in-depth investigation into a particular issue or topic that is relevant to you as a developing designer, or an issue inspired by wider society.
Utilise and build on your knowledge of various design and theoretical disciplines and techniques.
Gain research and organisational skills through an introductory lecture, tutorials and discussion.
Complete the module with a dissertation (3,500 to 4,500 words), supported by a clear central question and hypothesis relevant to the chosen topic.
Research conducted in this module can be used as the foundations for your major final project, although this is not compulsory.
Apply your research and analysis skills to develop ideas, concepts and plans for the proposal of a substantial final major project (or series of projects) within strict time limits.
Develop a critical understanding of the various theoretical, historical, cultural and contextual dimensions impacting on design practice, to critically position and present yourself and your practice.
Demonstrate your ability to select and employ appropriate strategies, media, skills, tools and methods to develop professional standards of creative, technical and conceptual practice, through a body of creative work and effectively communicate your ideas.
Throughout the course, you'll build a creative and industry-ready portfolio that'll help you launch a career as an illustrator or graphic designer, or take up any other roles where creative skills are important.
You'll exhibit your work at our final year Degree Show, visited by industry professionals and creative employers, and may have the opportunity to take your work to London.
Our graduates have gone on to work in a variety of illustration and design roles, such as freelance illustrators for Oxford University Press, The Guardian newspaper, Hallmark cards, design studios at the Open University, and Virgin's design department.
They create illustrations for advertising, packaging, and editorial purposes.
In addition, our academic team organises visits to art and design venues and companies in London and across the UK.
This is to provide you with the opportunity to travel around London and visit illustration agencies, design studios, and experience private viewings of famous artwork at the British Museum.
Through our connection with the Association of Illustrators and strong links with professional illustrators, we're able to attract a range of top names to give guest lectures.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/graphic-design:
Excel as a creative visual thinker.
Impress with your abilities to communicate with audiences.
Become a highly professional presence in the world of graphic design.
Our passionate and highly experienced staff understand how to nurture talent and are dedicated to building your confidence, knowledge, and design skills that'll help you to succeed within the creative industries.
The Graphic Design team combine teaching with professional practice in a variety of fields including graphic design, branding, illustration, exhibition and experience design, editorial, print, web and mobile interface, packaging, 3D (digital/physical/Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality), animation, and motion graphics.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move onto the Graphic Design honours degree course.
Teaching takes advantage of the University’s specialist computer laboratories.
Develop design experience and knowledge for print and screen, through a range of visual and practical methodologies.
Learn the underpinning design principles through various workshops, lectures and set projects using industry standard software and facilities.
Explore creative typography, image making and contemporary visual communication to build a strong foundation for further development.
Explore the techniques and dynamics of visual communication, such as semiotics and Gestalt theory, that assist you to understand and develop a visual intelligence.
Learn the aesthetics and dynamics of visual form and the applications it has in a variety of subject areas such as advertising and graphic design.
Develop a personal, reflective, independent exploration and evaluation of communication, graphic enquiry, typographic contexts, visual analysis and image generation.
Combine and build on the techniques learned at stage one to produce compelling motion design suited to real world applications.
Research and experiment with advanced motion and cinematic techniques, as a vehicle for exploring the creative and visual possibilities of professional motion graphics and special effects.
Develop your abilities individually or collaboratively, to sell ideas, persuade, inform, change views and behaviour, through the powerful medium of motion design.
Create engaging movies which can impact an audience and enhance your professional portfolio.
Understand how Graphic Communication is a term used to describe Graphic Design where the boundaries and parameters are consciously eroded and redefined.
Demonstrate a greater creativity and originality in your practice by testing and challenging established outcomes in graphic design.
Explore originality in responses to contemporary culture in which the audiences themselves share in the act of communication; and where meaning is more significant than surface superficiality.
Explore specific aspects of graphic design and choose a range of projects according to your own personal interests or portfolio/career needs.
Demonstrate a wide range of independent research, creative and technical skills and create high quality work, which you can include in a formal portfolio.
Produce a project that will be the centrepiece of your showcase to future employers, demonstrating your fresh and creative approach to your discipline.
Develop new and specific skills, explore creative direction and be immersed in the exploration of broad, deep, enquiring and focused communication.
Throughout the course, we'll support you to launch your design career.
You'll develop a creative and industry-ready portfolio, access work placements, attend employability days, and put your designs on show to the public.
These range from costing and business plans to going freelance, self-promotion, self-employment, enterprise, careers, networking, and copyright issues.
You'll also develop a professional engagement document.
Our graduates have gone on to work all over the globe in graphic design, editorial, infographics, motion graphics, advertising, web, packaging, and interactive design.
Our graduates boast employment at Everything Different, Ordinance Survey, MTV, Sitel Group, Newcastle Football Club, Sports Direct, Initials Marketing, Cravens, Blumilk, Frontier (games), and SEGA.
Most work in the creative industries of publishing, design consultancies, and advertising design, while others prefer self-employment.
This creative degree can also open doors into many other careers, such as teaching, or further study to master's or doctorate level.
In your final year, you'll display your work at our annual Degree Show, attended by industry experts and potential employers.
In addition, our academic team organises visits to arts venues across the UK and in cities such as Edinburgh, Barcelona, Amsterdam, Paris, and New York.
Our London campus hosts a visit each year, providing access to the varied museums and galleries and opportunities to visit studios such as JRK Global, Anyways, and Ogilvy.
Through our links with industry, we also attract professionals in graphic design to come in and give talks throughout the year.
Our creative spaces and conferences attract acclaimed guest speakers from across the design world, such as Andy Altmann (Why Not Associates) and Andy Sandoz, an honorary graduate and former president of the internationally influential Design and Art Direction.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/fine-art:
This is a four-year version of our popular BA (Hons) Fine Art course, with an integrated foundation year.
Nurture your creative talent alongside professional artists in our artist community.
Graduate with a skill set that meets the needs of employers across the globe.
Britain’s creative industries are worth £92 billion, employ two million people, and are growing twice as fast as the rest of the economy.
Guided by these experts, you'll have the freedom to explore your creative interests across a broad range of fine art practice including painting, printmaking, digital photography, film, sound, drawing, sculpture, and performance.
Throughout the course, you’ll work towards live outcomes, building your confidence as an artist to promote yourself, your art, and to understand the impact you can have as an artist in society.
You’ll be allocated your own studio space and this will be your space to build and develop your creativity alongside fellow students.
After completion of this foundation, you'll then move onto the Fine Art honours degree course.
In your second year, you’ll experience a range of working methods, honing and testing your technical, making, and artistic ability, while building your studio practice.
At the end of the year, you’ll show your achievements at your first exhibition.
In your third year, you’ll start to link your artistic practice with live experiences.
You’ll work collaboratively with students from other disciplines in the ‘Integrated Creativity’ module; replicating the practice of some the world’s biggest artists who draw on a range of creative talents.
You’ll undertake a project with a live outcome that could be a group exhibition, a workshop in the community, or a project with a local school.
Your final year is about building your professional practice, skills, and experience to prepare you for your final Degree Show, graduation, and beyond.
Understand what it takes to bid for funding or secure an exhibition space, all before critically selecting your work for public exhibition at your Degree Show.
Start to develop your own personal studio Fine Art practice.
Have the freedom to develop your own self negotiated project from the wide portfolio of Fine Art approaches, which might include painting, drawing, sculpture, print making, and digital subject areas.
Work collaboratively with peers to select and install work, fundraise, design posters, organise publicity and arrange opening night catering and hospitality for the Fine Art Year 1 public show.
Exhibit your body of work that you have developed throughout the year.
Gain an introduction to core Fine Art practical skills in painting, printmaking, digital photography, sound, and sculpture, via a series of set projects.
Engage with health and safety inductions regarding the use of materials and stainability.
Set up your own professional individual studio space and learn how to access and use the School of Art and Design’s workshop facilities.
Get an introduction to drawing principles through a series of structured drawing projects, including drawing both two and three dimensionally, and digitally.
Engage with traditional, diverse and contemporary approaches to drawing, using a wide range of ideas, materials and working methods.
Expand your own definition of drawing and develop a portfolio of drawing experiences that examines a traditional, contemporary and your individual response to the subject of drawing.
Learn about some of the key art movements and ideas which shaped, and continue to shape, the world culturally.
Engage with themes including, for example: Symbolism, Expression, Surrealism and Abstraction.
Examine the importance of feminism, multi-culturalism, and political activism, as generators of change, by discussing art from a range of different cultural contexts, histories, and traditions at a time of increasing globalisation.
Explore new models of contemporary art practice, in particular, the impact of new technologies, social media, and the different ways artists are interacting with audiences.
Develop essay skills in terms of theoretical research, debate and analytical critical writing.
Further consider the form and the appropriateness of the medium for the articulation of your ideas, choosing from Fine Art’s wide portfolio of subjects: painting, drawing printmaking, sculpture, digital, performance and installation.
Examine through practical work the creation of an artwork from concept to realisation.
Experiment and learn about possible new combinations of media and forms.
Benefit from workshops delivered by the Employability and Enterprise Hub which will enable you to further develop your understanding of professional routes for art graduates and begin to reflect on your aspirations.
Develop your own studio practice towards installing a live exhibition open to a public audience, learning how to install, curate and advertise your exhibition, including poster design, managing a budget, organising an exhibition opening, and recording your live project outcome in an appropriate media.
Alternatively, research and present a proposal for a socially engaged arts project, with a supporting body of artwork.
Locate your ideas within a wider audience outside of your studio, finding a place and context for your art in society.
Develop your understanding of how Fine Art practices are shaped by and help shape historical, social, cultural and political issues.
Explore key contemporary debates around inclusivity, diversity, ethics and sustainability.
Consider the broader social role of the artist, both gallery and socially engaged artists and identify artists who you admire as professional role models.
Prepare for real world and live collaborative creative projects.
Build your work experience, establish and enhance your creative and professional networks and broaden your understanding of graduate opportunities, creative enterprise and career pathways.
Negotiate a relevant placement where you will position your practical and creative skills, build networks and begin to identify relevant professional pathways.
Alternatively, work with fellow students from across our different Arts disciplines to create a group negotiated outcome.
Focus on the research and production of an advanced, self-negotiated project with a professional focus.
Prepare your practice for future exhibitions, arts-related and wider professional applications.
Develop a studio presentation, publish a digital STUDIOzine and present your ideas live to an interview panel.
Benefit from a weekly careers-practice programme which includes: Artists Voice Film programme, Employability and Enterprise Hub, seminars, application and funding advice for postgraduates, and seminars on writing applications, artists statements, how interviews work, support for postgraduate applications including teacher training, art therapy, artist residencies, internships and participatory-arts career information.
Take advantage of an intensive period of studio practice, working towards the realisation and completion of an individual personal project.
Participate in a critically selected solo exhibition, presented for both your final degree assessment and the public degree show exhibition audience.
Work collaboratively towards event fundraising, catalogue publication, photographing work, posters, press releases, opening night hospitality, invigilation, and exhibition tours.
Learn to make work that confidently communicates your ideas effectively to an audience.
Select your own topic of research related to Fine Art or visual culture, relevant to your practical work.
Demonstrate your research by either written dissertation (3,500 – 4,500 words) or by a word document outlining your Fine Art research practice, including preparation for an arts funding application.
Contextualise and gain a broader knowledge of the ideas underpinning your art practice.
Develop a range of transferable skills appropriate for future professional development opportunities and further study.
Why study for a fine art degree?
What does fine art mean?
And can you find a job as a fine artist?
Read more to find out why you should study a fine art degree
Facilities include:
To enhance employability, we encourage you to develop a professional portfolio throughout your time at the University.
We aim to prepare you to become a confident professional with transferable skills.
Increasingly, creative workers follow a ‘portfolio’ career comprising a range of roles such as teaching in schools, colleges, and universities; artist residencies; creative practitioner; and as a practising fine artist.
This makes for a really flexible lifestyle enabling you to extend your professional contacts, build your artistic practice, and take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Many creative workers are self-employed, and this course provides sessions on becoming self-employed, and our ‘Creative Lives’ lecture programme offers case studies of creative careers.
this course will encourage you to consider employment options both in the creative sector and in other types of industry.
A number of our students have chosen to progress to postgraduate courses, such as our MA Visual Practice course, teacher training PGCEs, and PCET SCITT teacher training courses.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/film-production:
If you’ve said yes to any of the above, this film production course is for you.
Learn from our highly experienced and skilled lecturing team using first-class equipment.
You’ll have access to specialised digital cameras, sound recording equipment, lighting kit, Steadicam rigs, and professional editing software packages such as Avid Media Composer, Adobe Premier Pro, and Da Vinci Resolve.
After completion of this foundation, you'll then move onto the Film Production honours degree course.
Through lectures, workshops, and project work, you'll learn practical skills and develop your knowledge in a variety of filmmaking roles to set you up for a career in the film and TV industry.
Discover the concepts, theories, methods and approaches that have shaped the discipline of film studies.
Develop skills in hands-on film analysis of a wide range of films, including how to analyse a shot, editing techniques, narrative structures, relationships between image and sound.
Learn the skills needed for visual storytelling in traditional cinematic narrative filmmaking practice.
Work with metahuman actors in Virtual Reality environments using Augmented Reality filmmaking technologies to produce a short virtual film.
Deliver a presentation to accompany the film.
Focus on the basic concepts, procedures and techniques of a modern television studio.
Gain an introduction to a wide variety of production roles (vision mixer, floor manager, camera operator, director, lighting director etc), and, working in groups, produce a short multi-camera studio programme for a specific audience such as a chat show, quiz show, news show, debate show or a sports show.
Learn new and exciting virtual production techniques and explore how this can be used in real-time to fundamentally transform traditional production methods, from planning to the production itself.
Meet key industry and University services such as BBC Careers Hub; ScreenSkills, mandy (and other directories and agencies), North East Screen; the University’s Enterprise Centre, Employability and Enterprise Hub, the Digital Incubator and Faculty initiatives Media Hub, Spark platforms and the Sunderland Creatives Agency.
Develop your theoretical understanding and practical knowledge of Guerrilla filmmaking.
Form your own production company and originate, develop, script, perform, shoot and edit a Guerrilla short film project.
Engage in an in-depth analysis of the major areas of film theory and criticism and gain a heightened capacity for critical thinking and an ability to analyse film ‘texts'.
Focus on recent and contemporary film theories such as feminism, psychoanalysis, postmodernism, and post-structuralism.
Build upon the skills you developed at stage 1 and learn about the important concept of pitching.
Explore the current critical issues around film distribution and marketing.
Gain analytical and practical experience promoting your creative ideas in the global marketplace.
Continue to explore virtual production through practical filmmaking techniques and interactive workshops that are modelled on industry codes and practices, preparing you for a real-world virtual production environment.
Understand the concepts and techniques employed in writing drama or comedy suitable for television or steaming service such as Netflix or Amazon.
Learn how to develop an idea through the treatment stage, and finally into a script.
Produce a major piece of media work in the genre of your choice on an appropriate platform.
Work in a group to develop work that incorporates one or more of the following: Television, Film, Web based media.
Create a Concept Document during pre-production which outlines the development of the project.
Write a 2000-word critical essay in which you evaluate the development of the production, your individual role and an analysis of the final piece.
Expand on skills developed at stage 1 and 2.
Produce a short film following a commission or live brief.
Establish your own small production company and develop an online presence, working in groups.
Demonstrate a high level of professionalism as you interact with clients.
Take advantage of opportunities to specialise in production and project management, directing, camera, sound, editing and postproduction.
Explore what makes watching films such a compelling emotional experience and how such experiences affect interpretations of key ideological discourses.
Focus on the role played by music, performance and genre in the evocation of emotion on screen.
Examine how texts encourage audience identification and empathy, especially in films dealing with sensitive, or contentious topics.
Consider the emotional power of all media texts and recognise feeling as a vital part of the overall fabric of our experience of watching and listening.
Gain an advanced understanding of digital video effects and post production skills devise a plan and develop an advanced digital post production project which explores and incorporates advanced digital video post, production techniques such as advanced digital video special effects work, colour correction and grading, and sound design.
Critically examine the position of your work with regards to current digital post production practices.
Our field camera systems comprises Blackmagic Ursa, Blackmagic Ursa Mini Pro, Blackmagic 4K Cinema Camera, Blackmagic 6k Pocket Cinema Camera and the Canon EOS 5D Mark III, with associated location kits, lighting, field monitors and audio mixers.
This film production degree prepares you for careers in the film and TV industries.
Other graduates take a more entrepreneurial route and have set up their own production or media companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-film-media:
Apply critical thinking and analysis and develop the transferable skills of problem-solving, communication, and presentation.
You’ll cover the historical contexts and contemporary debates in film, media, and culture and explore the relationships between film and media content and real-world impact.
You’ll work with established, research-active academics at the Centre for Research in Media and Cultural Studies and study alongside scriptwriters, film makers, and media practitioners.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move onto the Film and Media honours degree course.
Develop skills to analyse how media influences public knowledge and democracy, exploring current issues and important theories.
Or
Work alongside BBC Newcastle Journalists in our mediaHUB , home to student-run websites covering sport, news, entertainment, fashion ,and Spark online magazine.
Sunderland's daily newspaper, The Sunderland Echo, has a weekly page called 'On Campus' that's written entirely by students.
Creative Industries Week allows everyone the opportunity to participate in a range of projects, workshops, talks, industry visits, and career events.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-fashion-journalism:
Share your passion for fashion with readers both online and in print.
Write features, style photoshoots, report on catwalks, and design fashion spreads.
Graduate with a portfolio of published work to impress prospective employers.
Develop the core skills of fashion journalism.
Learn specialist skills such as catwalk reporting, styling, red carpet verdicts, street style photography, style icons and subcultures, social media, beauty, and video journalism
Access industry experts, placements, publishing opportunities, and field trips within the fashion industry – recent trips include our London Fashion Masterclasses.
Graduate with both an honours degree in fashion journalism and the NCTJ Diploma in Journalism, the nationally recognised industry entry qualification, significantly boosting your employability as a fashion journalist.
Increase your practical experience by taking on reporting, editing and/or managerial roles on Fashion North , our student-run website covering fashion across the North East.
Get involved in award-winning Spark Radio or Spark magazine, all based in our innovative mediaHUB, BBC Newcastle’s home in Sunderland and host to visiting journalists from organisations such as Trinity Mirror (Newcastle Chronicle, Journal) and Johnston Press (Sunderland Echo).
In your final year, you’ll go on placement on a fashion publication at the likes of Grazia, Elle, ASOS, and Glamour, putting what you’ve learnt into practice.
You’ll undertake a project to produce your own fashion magazine or website which will add significantly to the portfolio of work you can present to prospective employers.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move onto the Fashion Journalism honours degree course.
Teaching methods include lectures, demonstrations, seminars, workshops, group projects, and practical skills work.
Assessment is split between portfolios of practical work, essays, examinations, reports, and presentations.
Read more about what this means in our Help and Advice article
Our David Puttnam Media Centre is a buzzing place to study fashion journalism.
As well as working in our mediaHUB on fashion content, you can volunteer with our award-winning radio station, Spark Sunderland , write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine.
Learn from experts in this centre of excellence for training.
This degree prepares you for writing and talking about fashion in magazines, radio, TV, and online media, as well as for retailers or brands.
The industry qualifications also equip you to work as a general magazine or newspaper journalist.
The degree is highly relevant to many positions in industry, commerce, and the Civil Service, as well as to jobs in PR, the arts, and voluntary sectors.
Recent journalism graduates from Sunderland have gained jobs with employers such as Sky, MTV, The Guardian, Grazia, Elle, regional newspapers, and PR companies.
You’ll be actively involved in the Fashion North website and have the opportunity to get involved in Spark Sunderland, the 24/7 Community Radio station based in the Media Centre.
Sunderland’s daily newspaper, The Sunderland Echo, has a weekly page called 'On Campus' that is written entirely by students at the University.
Other opportunities for real-world experience include Spark online magazine and SportsByte, which are linked to our journalism and media courses.
Our academics are industry experts and have excellent relationships across the fashion industry including Vogue, Grazia, ITV, and BBC.
Broaden your horizons with inspiring trips – recently, students have enjoyed visits to the Clothes Show in Birmingham and Fashion Masterclasses in London with speakers from across the industry.
The Student Style challenge with John Lewis Retail inspired students with an industry talk with stylist Josta Wood, followed by a styling challenge in-store.
Recent student placements at fashion publications include Elle, Grazia, ASOS, Harper's Bazaar, and Fabulous, the Sun on Sunday’s magazine.
In the past, our students have commissioned and styled fashion shoots for magazines and newspapers, worked on catwalk shows and fashion weeks, and provided fashion reports for the websites of major retailers in the North East.
All students studying on-campus undergraduate fashion journalism courses can take up a CV-enhancing work placement, a University-led industry initiative, or a professional and business development boot camp.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-english:
Acquire skills in pitching, presenting, and networking.
The BA (Hons) English: Creative and Professional Writing degree enables you to understand writing as a profession while exploring and developing your own creative talent.
You'll acquire skills in pitching, presenting and networking and learn about a range of industries where writers are in high demand.
If you're interested in taking your writing further into a range of creative industries such as publishing, the literary arts including novel writing, poetry, and nonfiction, as well as in the media, script and screen writing, marketing, communications, and other related activities, this course is for you.
You'll learn from experts in their field who'll connect you to creative institutions and networks both regionally and nationally, as you gain expertise in creative and professional writing.
You’ll have the chance to work with established organisations as well as develop your portfolio for a varied and fulfilling writing career, and take part in the Sunderland Creative Writing Festival and the renowned Sunderland Literature Festival.
At each stage of the course, you'll study modules such as Submitting Short Fiction and Poetry, Regional Writing, Environmental Writing and The Business of Writing, alongside English literature and English language core learning to develop essential knowledge and critical skills.
After completion of this foundation year, you'll then move on to BA (Hons) English: Creative and Professional Writing three-year degree.
You'll be based at The Reg Vardy Centre, situated on the award-winning St Peter's riverside campus.
The annual fee for this course is £5,760  if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
After your foundation year, you'll move onto the BA (Hons) English: Creative and Professional Writing course.
This course blends the best of a traditional English degree with innovative teaching and exciting connections to the creative industries both regionally and nationally to help budding writers, creatives, and creators make their mark.
This is not a ‘traditional’ creative writing degree, but one that prepares you for writing both creatively and professionally.
The course introduces you to the skills necessary for the kinds of careers you'll find across the creative industries in the 21 st century, and helps you get into the career you want.
You'll be well placed to enter many areas within the creative industries, such as literary agencies, publishing houses, galleries, museums, theatres, and writing development organisations, as well as across the journalism, media, marketing, communications, and PR industries.
Potential jobs include freelance writer, novelist, poet, games designer (narrative), publicist, publishing assistant, marketing, PR/communications, copywriter, advertising executive, digital writer, editor, content writer, proofreader, researcher, translator, journalist, reporter, scriptwriter, screenwriter, and radio writer.
Many of our graduates work as editors, journalists, writers, teachers, and within publishing.
As part of the course, you’ll go on placement to organisations that suit your goals, from literary agencies to copywriting houses, including student writing residencies and opportunities in the region’s cultural venues and festivals.
Spark is award-winning and has been consistently recognised at the Student Radio Awards, Community Radio Awards, and the prestigious New York Festival Radio Awards for many years.
Students are responsible for programme production and creative ideas which could be your step into writing radio drama or scripting comedy shows.
In the same building, you can also learn from the many writers who work from here, including BBC Newcastle journalists and the team at Tyne & Wear TV, a professional TV station run from our Media Centre.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/animation-games-art:
Develop skills in animation and games art.
Gain expertise in industry-standard software.
The animation, games, and visual effects (VFX) industries are always searching for new talent.
BA (Hons) Animation and Games Art allows you to explore and develop both traditional and new techniques, learning key digital skills in 2D and 3D, as well as the core principles of character-led animation.
You'll have the opportunity to work on industry-led briefs and entries for festivals and competitions such as Encounters, RTS awards, 11 Second Club, and E4 Stings.
We’re affiliated with Game Republic too, and it's all part of our commitment to help you become industry ready.
We place animation and games art within the broader context of design to help you keep your career options open.
Teaching is almost entirely practical and studio-based, supported by lectures, seminars, and tutorials.
After completion of this foundation, you will then move onto the Animation and Games Art honours degree course.
In your second year, you'll learn classical animation techniques and core digital skills.
In your third year, you'll be introduced to more advanced approaches such as 3D, character rigging, and motion capture.
In your final year, you'll build your portfolio and undertake a personal research project that will lead into your final major project.
Learn the core principles of animation using both traditional hand drawn techniques and digital studio techniques via a range of practical tasks.
Build upon the traditional core skills learnt and expand this into a range of digitally refined animations.
Take part in weekly life drawing classes where you’ll study the human form to enhance your figurative and imaginative drawing and character design skills.
Engage in research that will support and enhance your practical work.
Learn the core principles of games art using a range of current digital studio practices via a range of practical tasks.
Develop a solid understanding of colour contrast, shape theory, form, composition, and tone as well as other key aspects of design in various digital forms.
Partake in collaborative game jams with a view to extend and enhance links with other creative practitioners and students across university disciplines to enhance your portfolio and employability.
Create short sequences as part of a team using a variety of traditional techniques such as Pixillation, Direct animation, Smudge ‘n Click, Cut-out and Stop Motion, building on the principles and skills learnt in semester 1 and exploring visual storytelling further.
Produce a short film for a student-led competition and public screening to showcase your first year’s work.
Continue to attend weekly life drawing classes looking at expressive and experimental drawing techniques.
Be introduced to 3D software and tools in a series of creative workshops and have the opportunity to collaborate with BSc (Hons) Game Development students and participate in local Game Jams.
Produce a collection of 3D animations culminating in an interactive, playable character.
Produce a 3D digitally sculpted model and environment.
Produce a short, animated lip-sync performance sequence working to a pre-recorded soundtrack.
Follow the preproduction pipeline for creating either a pitch bible for a children’s tv series or a games document for a 7-PEGI game from visual and contextual research through concept art, story art, character design, environments, assets, linear and non-linear storytelling.
Create an animatic or walkthrough to demonstrate your concept’s viability.
Pitch your idea in a short presentation at the end of the module.
Work individually or as part of a creative team.
Collaborate further with BSc (Hons) Game Development students.
Create a music video for an artist of your own choosing either as part of a collaboration, or working alone.
Study the application of advanced After Effects e.g.
rotoscoping, tracking techniques, using green screen and keylight - and choose to apply any creative technique to your work.
Explore the genre and contextual background to music and animation in film and games, to the title sequence as an art form as well as create an ident for yourself.
Help to organise a showcase of your work at a public screening at the end of the academic year.
Work on a chosen live brief as well as a piece to showcase your skills and enhance your showreel/portfolio.
Employability Day will enable you to meet successful alumni from this and other Design courses and hear about their experiences after graduating and tips on employability.
Create a Professional Engagement Document, which will show how you have interacted over the past two years with industry professionals either through placements, social media, visits to festivals and studios or other networking events.
Focus on CV writing and interview techniques as well as the creative and technical skills required for your chosen specialism to enhance your employability.
Research an approach, concept or practice relevant to your specialism that is intended to support your practical work in your final major project.
An example of this from a recent graduate was the study of Magic Realism, which directly fed into the narrative of their graduation film.
Demonstrate academic research methods to formulate a written piece of 6,000 words.
Recent employers have included:
In addition, you'll be encouraged to attend annual animation festivals such as the Manchester Animation Festival (MAF), as well as visits to arts venues across the UK and in cities such as Barcelona, Amsterdam, and New York.
Through our links with industry, we attract professionals in animation to come into the University and give talks.
Past visiting speakers include quadruple-BAFTA award-winning Jardone Sage (CITV) (a graduate of the course), Curtis Jobling (creator of Bob the Builder), Susannah Shaw (Aardman), Barry Purves (Lord of the Rings), alumni and award-winning Catherine Salkeld (Story Artist and VR director at Blue Zoo Studios), and Andy Davies (Sony Games).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-fashion-design-promotion:
If you are applying for the full time course from within the UK click Apply Now
Prepare to launch your career in the rapidly growing and exciting world of the fashion industry.
Explore every aspect of fashion, from styling and manufacturing to visual merchandising, buying, and selling.
Gain invaluable skills and an understanding of fashion design, fashion promotion, and marketing.
Looking to make your mark in the fashion industry but can’t decide between fashion design, or fashion promotion and marketing?
Our Fashion Design and Promotion course gives you skills and crucial understanding in both areas.
In fashion design, you’ll develop concepts, explore materials, design everything from fabrics to full fashion collections, and develop an understanding of the manufacturing processes.
You’ll gain all the skills you’ll need to construct garments – such as pattern making, cutting, sewing, fabric printing, and craftsmanship.
You'll also have the opportunity to discover new technologies, using software such as CLO 3D to bring your designs to life.
In the fashion promotion and marketing pathway, you’ll consider the whole fashion market, analyse future trends, develop brands, learn the marketing mix, understand visual merchandising, create promotional materials, and plan and manage events, including fashion shows.
Our team will guide you and help choose your preferred pathway.
The course will prepare you for a successful career in areas including design, styling, promotion, marketing, manufacturing, visual merchandising, buying and selling.
Teaching is almost entirely practical and studio based, supported by lectures, seminars, tutorials, e-learning, and independent study and research.
Assessment is all coursework based.
In the second year, you'll build on, grow, and develop your knowledge and learning in both disciplines through a series of live projects, competitions and the annual second year Fashion Show.
In your final year, you'll specialise in your chosen pathway, developing your own unique Final Major Project.
Previously these have included the creation and production of a full fashion line, developing a brand identity and look book, producing a fashion publication, and creating and delivering a fashion event.
Are you curious about how fashion ideas become real clothes?
Take your first step into fashion design.
You’ll learn key fashion terms, how to research and develop ideas, and how to respond to a design brief.
You’ll also start using design software, try basic pattern-cutting and sewing, and explore how fabrics work through print and embroidery.
Want to learn how fashion gets promoted and sold?
Explore how to research ideas, respond to a brief, and create exciting ways to promote fashion to the right audience.
You’ll learn key promotion terms, how to plan creative campaigns, and how to share your ideas clearly and confidently.
You'll also use digital design software to create a four-outfit capsule collection for a high street or online store, along with ads and packaging that match your chosen target market.
Discover how to transform fashion ideas into real garments.
You’ll build core skills in design, pattern-cutting, fabric use, and making clothes.
Learn how to explore and solve problems through research, sketching, and testing out your ideas.
Try out both manual and digital techniques, including basic CAD tools, to help bring your designs to life.
Through hands-on workshops and guided projects, you’ll learn how to plan, develop, and present your work clearly and creatively.
Discover how fashion became what it is today and where it’s headed next.
E xplore key moments in fashion history, influential designers, iconic style figures, and ground - breaking subcultures that have shaped the global fashion landscape.
You'll dive into the evolution of style and identity, and how fashion reflects cultural shifts over time.
You'll also take a closer look at today’s major fashion brands and how they build their image, connect with audiences, and grow through marketing strategies.
By analysing a brand in depth, you’ll uncover how history, commerce, and creativity intersect in the fashion industry and what makes a brand truly stand out.
Gain hands-on experience with the key skills and tools used in today’s fashion design and production.
Build your creative design skills by working on a project for a specific market, while learning about fashion’s commercial context and the challenges of sustainability.
You’ll also improve your pattern-cutting, garment construction, and fabric knowledge, applying everything you learn through a focused design project.
Improve your fashion illustration skills to create your own unique drawing style.
Learn about body proportions, fabric textures, and gesture drawing, using both hand and digital techniques.
You’ll also discover how to present your ideas clearly and creatively to fit different clients and markets.
By studying other illustrators, you’ll find new ways to develop your personal style and tell your design story.
Ever wanted to direct a fashion shoot or create eye-catching images that tell a story?
Plan and create fashion images like lookbooks, editorials, and brand campaigns.
You’ll take on the roles of stylist and art director, learning how to manage photo shoots.
You’ll explore styling and photography techniques, understand the importance of target audiences, and learn how to find the right clothes, models, and hair and makeup teams.
You’ll also create a styling video for social media and study the work of famous stylists to inspire your work.
Have you ever thought about what makes a brand stand out?
Learn how to create a brand’s visual identity, including logos, guidelines, and promotional materials.
You’ll develop your own brand and create a professional campaign to share it with a wider audience.
You’ll also work as a creative consultant to help plan and run the Final Major Project fashion show or exhibition with your classmates.
Along the way, you’ll document the whole process to build skills that prepare you for your future career.
Are you ready to show off your design skills and creativity?
Create a professional portfolio that reflects your personal style and prepares you for your future career.
You’ll design and make advanced, complex products for a chosen market, experimenting with fabrics, shapes, and details.
Working on real projects or live briefs, you’ll follow a strong design process and get personal guidance to help you present your work like a true professional.
What kind of creative project do you want to be known for?
Plan and propose your Final Major Project by researching and developing your ideas within set deadlines.
You’ll explore the cultural, historical, and theoretical influences on design and learn how to place your own work in a wider context.
Through a strong creative process, you’ll choose the right tools, media, and methods to develop a high standard of professional work and clearly communicate your ideas.
P lease prepare a portfolio of work you have completed so far.
Students on our course have previously worked with brands such as Barbour, NeuThreads, and have designed the football strip for SAFC Women.
This invaluable industry experience will prepare you for work in areas including design, styling, promotion, marketing, manufacturing, visual merchandising, buying, and selling.
Graduates from this course have gone into a wide range of careers, from fashion design, pattern cutting and garment technology to sourcing and allocating, buying, branding, marketing, merchandising, communications, styling and more.
Past graduates have gone on to work for well renowned design companies such as Abercrombie and Fitch, River Island, Debenhams, TopMan, All Saints and Matalan.
Get real life experience by organising your own fashion event in the city in your second year.
Previous events have included a fashion film premiere, a catwalk show in London, a dance performance and DJ.
You’ll also get the opportunity to enter your work into national awards ceremonies.
Our successful students in the past have been finalists at The Golden Shears awards.
This exciting week encourages interdisciplinary working, broadens your experience, builds your confidence and helps to develop your career path.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/counselling-children-young-people:
A key feature of this course is evaluating practice against the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) and National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS) competency frameworks for working with children and young people and associated good practice guidelines.
Students undertaking the module should have practice experience of counselling children and young people and be in current practice with this client group under appropriate supervision.
During the course students will need to accrue a minimum of 50 hours of practice.
The course will take the form of 2-hour sessions running weekly across two semesters.
The first semester will be 25 September 2025 to 11 December 2025.
The second semester will be from 8 January 2026 to 26 March 2026.
There are 3-week vacation periods in December and March/April.
Learning outcomes for this course include:
Assessment for this course will consist of a reflective portfolio (3000 words), a supervisors statement (to confirm 50 hours of practice has been satisfactorily undertaken) and a reflective Statement (1000 words).
The course will take place on City Campus in Sunderland city centre.
You also must hold: 2:2 Degree classification in counselling/psychotherapy- this must be a practitioner qualification recognised by British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP), National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS), or the United Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP) as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
or A degree in a related subject (e.g.
health or care related subject) (2:2) and hold a level 5 qualification in counselling - the level 5 qualification must be a practitioner qualification recognised by BACP, NCPS, or the UKCP as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
or PgDip in Counselling - the PgCert/Dip in Counselling must be a practitioner qualification recognised by BACP, NCPS, or the UKCP as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
In addition to meeting one of the above criteria , the student will need to already be working with a CYP client group and be able to evidence the completion of at least 50 hours of experience working with children and young people since completing their initial counselling training
The fee for this course is £1500
Corporate and Professional Education Team cpd@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  11 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/5-step-process-improvement:
Identify organisational, departmental, and behavioural challenges and recommend commercially viable solutions.
Adopt the role of a consultant and report back on your findings.
Cover themes such as strategic goal setting, effective change models, quality assurance, leadership, conflict management, appraisals, training, and development.
Given the continuing economic challenges organisations face, and the deficit of key skills for transformation improvement, this 9-day masterclass, delivered over 2 months, will target a cross-section of employees to identify organisational, departmental, and behavioural challenges and propose viable solutions.
You'll be introduced to key learning themes such as strategic goal setting, effective change models, quality assurance, leadership, group dynamics, communication, conflict management, motivational techniques, appraisals, training, and development.
Working in groups and with a mentor, you'll identify and investigate a challenge and present to your executive on the issue, cost, proposed solution, and produce a cost-benefit analysis.
This is an innovative and collaborative 9-day masterclass, delivered over 2 months, where you'll identify and investigate organisational challenges and develop commercially viable solutions.
At the end of the course, you'll deliver a presentation and produce a report on your findings.
The course can be delivered at Hope Street Xchange, Sunderland, or onsite at your workplace.
The fee for this course is £1125.
Page last updated:  27 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/tourism-scheme-top-up-dl:
MSc Tourism and Aviation - Top Up Full Time
Course starts: 16 September 2025 Apply now
MSc Tourism and Events - Top Up Full Time
MSc Tourism and Hospitality - Top Up Full Time
MSc Sustainable Tourism - Top Up Full Time
MSc Tourism and Aviation - Top Up Part Time
MSc Tourism and Events - Top Up Part Time
MSc Tourism and Hospitality - Top Up Part Time
MSc Sustainable Tourism - Top Up Part Time
Build on your previous managerial experience and relevant qualification.
Further your professional development.
Gain an advantage in an ever-evolving job market.
The MSc Tourism Scheme (Top-Up) will enable students to undertake a 60-credit research dissertation through independent directed learning.
Students will have the option to select from four distinct routes: Tourism and Hospitality, Tourism and Events, Tourism and Aviation, or Sustainable Tourism.
Research topics may include airline management, event planning strategies, hospitality trends, and developing sustainable approaches to tourism development.
This master's course stands out due to its exclusive focus on the research dissertation, which enables critical thinking and allows for industry relevant contributions.
Through this applied research approach, students will enhance their analytical and problem-solving skills, enabling them to provide meaningful insights in the fields of tourism, hospitality, events, aviation, and/or sustainable tourism.
Teaching and learning methods include online tutorials and one-to-one supervision.
Assessment is conducted through a dissertation module, during which you will work under the guidance of an academic supervisor.
This course is a 60 credit research dissertation only, depending on the route taken this will be:
As a distance learning student, you'll be able to remotely access online journals, articles and e-books.
Opportunities are also provided for continual online support and tutorials from both qualified librarians and your course tutor.
The library team offer real-time online help through ‘Live Chat’ at various periods throughout the day and they also offer online tutorials to help you make the most of our electronic resources.
This distance-learning course can be studied from anywhere in the world.
You'll need good internet access to use our Virtual Learning Environment, where you will access specially designed learning materials, e-books, e-journals, relevant websites and multimedia.
This course is designed to support career acceleration for suitable graduate applicants.
All levels of practical/work experience will be considered including applications from graduates with limited/no work experience post their postgraduate certificate or diploma who can display they will benefit from a course of this type.
A relevant postgraduate or equivalent professional qualification is a requirement to apply for this course.
Fees are £5,500.
An MSc is a challenging qualification which requires significant dedication.
Employers recognise its worth, and the value that an MSc-qualified graduate can bring to their organisation.
This master's course equips you with the skills and understanding to progress rapidly in tourism and hospitality, events and aviation management, and potential employment opportunities include hotel and resort management, attractions and museums, destination marketing agencies, tourism companies, restaurant and bar management, and catering management.
A person with a Master's in Tourism and Hospitality, Events, and Aviation can explore career opportunities across various industries.
In the area of Hospitality Management, potential roles include overseeing hotels and resorts, managing restaurants, or handling cruise line operations.
Event Management offers avenues in event planning, conference coordination, wedding planning, and corporate event management.
Opportunities in Tourism Management span destination management, tour operation, travel agency management, and cultural tourism development.
In the aviation sector, opportunities include airport or airline management, aviation consulting, and customer service roles.
Page last updated:  20 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-top-up-dl:
MBA Business Administration 90 Credit Top Up
Course starts: 16 October 2025 Apply now
MBA Business Administration 60 Credit Top Up
This Master of Business Administration (MBA) Top-Up (DL) is for people with a Postgraduate Diploma in Management Studies or an equivalent postgraduate qualification.
You can take your existing postgraduate qualification and ‘top-up’ to an MBA by studying either 60 or 90 credits.
We understand that your MBA is part of an onward journey.
We offer extensive career support to help you gain a rapid return on your investment in yourself – and achieve your personal goals.
Students are taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, and tutorials.
Students studying via Independent Distance Learning will mainly learn through activities accessed on the Learning Management System, Canvas.
Online activities and tasks are supported by limited live online sessions.
Assessment is through coursework, submitted at the end of each module.
60-credit fees are:
90-credit fees are:
If you're unsure whether you qualify as a UK, EU, or international student, see our Help and Advice article .
The applied nature of our MBA Top-Up (DL) course will build on your previous managerial experience while moving you forward on a journey of practical professional development.
The course is an investment in yourself that can lead to higher salary, promotion opportunities, greater employability and flexibility in an evolving job market.
Business graduates from Sunderland have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Merck & Co, Barclays, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterCoopers and Adidas.
We invite business leaders into the University to share their experiences with students.
Past speakers include Divine Chocolate’s Head of Sales and Marketing and Sunderland Football Club’s CEO.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/shoot-edit-share:
Shoot, Edit, Share is a practical, hands-on course that empowers participants to create effective short-form video content using mobile phones.
Covering planning, filming, editing, and publishing, the course prepares learners to produce content optimised for platforms like TikTok, Instagram and Youtube Shorts.
We’ll look at how to grab attention, tell a story in under 60 seconds, and create content people want to watch and share.
You’ll learn how to film with confidence, edit like a pro using free mobile apps, and get your videos seen with simple publishing strategies, before looking at how to track and analyse engagement metrics to improve strategy.
This course will take place on 12 November 2025.
The morning of the session will cover p lanning, mobile filming skills and shareable content.
The afternoon of the session will cover e diting, publishing strategies, and audience engagement metrics.
To be eligible to receive this course fully funded, you must be employed by a Sunderland-based business excluding the public sector.
The fee for this course is £400.
For more information about this course, contact skills@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  16 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/creative-skills-for-business:
This masterclass has been created to enable you to develop your creative thinking ability and equip you with a range of problem-solving techniques to enable you to address organisational issues and problems.
Business today is as lean as it can be!
We therefore need new approaches to help us solve existing business problems.
This course offers a new ‘lens’ through which to see alternative solutions.
It will help you to develop a new and novel way of thinking and real techniques for implementing changes in the workplace.
This course is for business managers, owners, and people responsible for decision making within their business or organisation who may not have tried creative thinking in the past.
The one day programme will look at traditional and creative problem - solving techniques and explore the business case for creative thinking .
The course has been developed by University academic staff who have a wealth of business and leadership experience, who understand the challenges leaders face, and the importance of developing knowledge and skills to help them successfully meet these challenges.
This masterclass will be assessed by an o nline multi-choice quiz to assess learning.
You'll be supported by a University tutor.
Page last updated: 14 June 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/audio-podcasting:
This one-day masterclass is tailor-made to offer an overview of aspects of audio podcasting, whether you have already started on this journey and are looking to enhance your skills, or are just starting out.
Expect a quick-fire exploration of some of the key aspects of audio podcast production, arming you with some of the tools and know-how to confidently create your own pilot podcasts.
You'll be taught by Jay Sykes, who has produced two programmes for BBC Radio 4, the audio drama ‘William’s Castle’, and the audio documentary ‘Vessels of Memory: Glass Ships of Sunderland’.
Jay has previously worked on building podcasting strategies and productions with New Writing North, Stand Alone, Mind, Changing Relations, Pink Collar Gallery, and ‘Culture House Podcast’ in partnership with Sunderland City Council
With industry-ready recording studios situated on campus, this course offers access to a range of professional standard equipment, offering a quick-fire but thorough experience across a range of aspects of audio and podcast production
Understanding your audience, their pain and pleasure points, your own goals, how audio production / podcasting fits into your KPIs, and building your brand.
Tips and tricks to master the building blocks of audio storytelling: We will cover scripting, interviewing, and conversation facilitation, that can help your podcast stand out from the crowd.
We’ll discuss some of the potential setups for recording your podcast, to suit a range of budgets.
An overview of the building blocks of your editing toolkit: How to cut, fade, cross-fade, adjust levels, panning, utilise effects and filters, restructure your content, and how to sculpt using music, audio branding, and sound effects.
We’ll explore use of trailers, logos, graphics, audiograms, content marketing, and other tools and techniques to build the world around your podcast brand.
Once you have created your podcast, how will you distribute it?
With a range of options available, we will explore some of the key hosting platforms you could consider.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/cid916-msc-tourism-and-events:
To apply for the full-time course starting January, click apply now
Fast-track your career in the hospitality, leisure and tourism industry.
Progress rapidly in tourism and events management.
Qualify for senior roles with significant responsibility.
An MSc is an internationally respected qualification.
In one year you'll develop a strategic understanding of all aspects of tourism and events management.
This master's course brings together a social science approach to tourism and events with the development of job-related skills and employability.
You’ll complete theoretical modules ‘Tourism Concepts and Issues’ and ‘Current Practices in the Visitor Economy’, and in the final phase of the course you’ll complete a major project personal to your interests and career aspirations.
You'll be taught by passionate academics who produce world-leading research.
A typical week will include lectures, seminars, study visits and group work.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this master's course requires a higher level of independent working.
Your progress will be assessed by essays, presentations, portfolios of evidence and a dissertation.
Discover more about the complex and exciting world of tourism.
Explore tourism as a social and cultural practice, tourist subjectivities, and the spatial dimension of tourism.
Consider perspectives from different disciplines while sitting firmly within the social sciences.
Gain inside knowledge of the current trends in the tourism, hospitality, aviation, and events industries.
Develop your understanding of current practices in the industry with the opportunity to undertake a residential field trip in the UK.
Critically reflect on the relationship between theory and practice in relation to the visitor economy.
Expand your knowledge of the key theories, methodologies and philosophies adopted in tourism, hospitality, aviation and events research.
Develop your practical skills using quantitative data analysis software in workshops.
Gain the critical foundations required to undertake your own independent research project.
Gain a blend of business management skills and insight into the social sciences of events.
Expand your knowledge and understanding of the dynamic nature of events in the context of the tourism and hospitality industries.
Unpack the distinctive qualities of event management as a contemporary issue, exploring from a social, cultural, economic, and political perspective a range of events in the tourism, leisure, recreation, hospitality, and creative industries.
Focus on an area of events management of your choice and design and implement a research proposal.
Set aims and objectives, select and implement research methods, conduct a literature review, collect empirical data, and analyse appropriately.
Receive expert supervision and training in research methods, research design, and the interpretation of data and its relation to contextual material.
We’ve expanded our Hospitality, Events, Aviation and Tourism offering by introducing a postgraduate course in sustainable tourism.
This cutting-edge MSc course will cover a range of topics around the sustainability of regions, cultures, and attractions.
Find out more about our MSc Sustainable Tourism course
We usually require applicants to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) is the name given to the process of gaining credit towards a qualification because of something you have learnt in the past.
If you're eligible for APL you won't have to learn the same topic again, so you can be exempt from a module, set of modules or year of a course.
Please note that part-time courses are not available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
Employers recognise its worth, and the value that an MSc-qualified tourism and events leader can bring to their organisation.
This master's course equips you with the skills and understanding to progress rapidly in tourism and events management.
Potential employers include events management companies, conference and exhibition centres, events venues, hotel and resort management, attractions and museums, destination marketing agencies, and tourism companies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/emotional-intelligence-masterclass:
Emotional intelligence is the idea that emotions are useful; they are important sources of information.
Emotions help us solve problems, and they guide our social interactions.
This course is designed to help you to develop your emotional intelligence abilities.
The course will cover:
This course is delivered via self-managed online learning.
You'll have four weeks from enrolment to complete the course.
Upcoming dates include:
The course has been developed by academics who have a wealth of business and leadership experience, who understand the challenges leaders face, and the importance of developing knowledge and skills to help them successfully meet these challenges.
You'll have access to our academic tutor throughout for support and questions.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/marketing-masterclass:
This masterclass has been created to help you develop and deliver an effective marketing strategy.
By effective, we mean a strategy that is well thought out, planned to perfection, and manageable to deliver, but most importantly, a strategy that delivers a return on investment for your organisation and helps you achieve your overall strategic objective.
The course is aimed at business managers, owners, and people who wish to develop a good grounding in creating and implementing a successful marketing strategy.
The session on July 30 is a closed cohort session aimed specifically at SMEs.
The session on 16 September is for all businesses, organisations, and individuals.
This masterclass is interactive and designed to help you develop a successful marketing strategy for your business.
It's intended to have a real practical benefit and to support your business success.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/authentic-leadership:
This masterclass will help raise awareness of your leadership potential, allowing you to explore your strengths in the context of leadership in the workplace, to achieve greater effectiveness and satisfaction in your role.
The masterclass takes your challenging work environment and, creating the space to reflect, asks you to explore your strengths and preferred ways of working, to consider how you see yourself and how others see you, and to consider what makes you an effective leader, developing confidence and effectiveness.
The course is aimed at both experienced leaders and anyone relatively new to leadership, who occupy roles requiring them to demonstrate leadership formally or informally.
The masterclass is designed and delivered by highly qualified practitioners who have experience and expertise in their subject.
Tools and concepts in this masterclass will support you in exploring and evaluating individual qualities and attributes and how these can be helpful or unhelpful depending on the work-based context.
The concepts will focus on the qualities of a leader and understanding what makes you effective, using what you learn to enhance that effectiveness, to benefit you and your organisation.
This course has no formal accreditation or assessment, although you'll be asked to produce a reflection on your experience, providing evidence of the impact of the course with a consideration of how this might inform your future development.
Please contact us to discuss closed and bespoke cohorts.
The fee for this course is £200.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/coaching-for-leaders:
Coaching is one of the most important skills for any leader.
It can be used to drive growth and better results from yourself and others and can aid individuals in overcoming struggles and barriers to progress.
This masterclass will develop your coaching abilities, as a tool for enhancing leadership effectiveness.
You' ll explore coaching in the context of business leadership, and learn the purpose of coaching and where coaching sits on the continuum of professional development interventions.
You'll explore and practice the skills and qualities required to be a successful coach, understand the coaching process, and the importance of setting goals.
The course is aimed at individuals from private, public, and third-sector organisations, business owners, managers, or people from within an organisation who are interested in developing their leader effectiveness through coaching.
This course is delivered via self-managed online learning, or on campus.
This masterclass is interactive and designed to help you to develop your abilities as a coach.
It's intended to have real practical benefits to support your success as a leader.
It's aimed at leaders within an organisation who wish to develop a good grounding in how to coach their teams.
This course is delivered both in-person on-campus and via self-managed online learning.
The on-campus start dates are:
Students wishing to study via self-managed online learning can enrol anytime and have four weeks from enrolment to complete the learning.
They will have access to our academic tutor throughout for support and questions.
Please contact us for any bespoke, closed dates that can be taught at your workplace.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/introduction-to-leadership:
This masterclass provides you with the opportunity to explore your strengths in the context of informal and formal leadership in the workplace to raise awareness of your leadership potential.
You'll explore and evaluate your individual qualities and attributes, focusing on the qualities of a leader, and how these inform individual behaviour and effectiveness, applying what is learned in the 'classroom' to the work context.
It will help you to understand what makes you effective as a leader and use what you learn to enhance that effectiveness, to benefit you and your organisation.
This course is suitable for anyone new to leadership roles or those who are not currently occupying a formal leadership position but are considering doing so in the future.
It's aimed at people from private, public, and third-sector organisations, business owners, managers, or people from an organisation who are interested in developing their leadership effectiveness.
This course is delivered via self-managed online learning , or on campus.
The course content will provide insight into leadership definitions, qualities of effective leaders, and styles of leadership.
This course has no formal accreditation or assessment, although you'll be asked to reflect on your experience, providing evidence of the impact of the course with a consideration of how this might inform your future development.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/strategic-leadership-sustainable-future-sc:
In a rapidly evolving global environment, this course provides you with the mindset, skills, and practical tools required to lead responsibly and strategically in the face of complexity and change.
You'll critically explore contemporary leadership theories and frameworks while engaging with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to understand their strategic implications for business.
Key focus areas include emotional intelligence, cultural competence, ethical leadership, digital leadership, and strategic foresight.
Through interactive lectures, facilitated workshops, and leadership diagnostics, you'll reflect on your leadership style and enhance your ability to drive sustainable organisational impact.
This course is distinct due to its industry-informed and applied learning approach.
Delivered in collaboration with our credible international partner MDIS Singapore, it's underpinned by a robust virtual learning environment and complemented by global perspectives from business leaders.
Assessment is entirely coursework-based and includes a digital leadership-style poster and reflective submission, allowing you to synthesise theory, self-awareness, and practical application.
This is a blended learning course ideal for working professionals.
You will learn by:
Your progress will be assessed by:
This course combines academic rigour with practical application, fostering growth as a strategic leader in sustainable and digital contexts.
Management Development Institute of Singapore (MDIS)
MDIS Campus 501 Stirling Road Singapore 148951 Phone: 6247 9111 Email: etc@mdis.edu.sg
This course is taught at MDIS Singapore , one of our quality-assured partner universities.
Applicants will require: A recognised honours degree or equivalent professional qualification Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) or Experiential Learning (APEL) may be considered on a case-by-case basis English Language Proficiency (e.g., IELTS 6.5 or equivalent, where applicable)
Please contact the study centre for more information on fees.
On completing the course, you'll have the knowledge and confidence to lead transformation in sustainability-focused roles across business, government, education, and non-profit sectors.
Whether you're advancing in your current role or seeking new career opportunities, you'll be better prepared to tackle real-world leadership challenges with vision and integrity.
Page last updated:  13 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/certificate-clinical-skills:
Learn how to carry out an in-depth history and conduct systematic physical examinations of different areas of the body.
Gain an understanding of best practice in documenting and communicating your findings.
Earn credits at the same level as our undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses.
This course trains you to carry out an in-depth history and conduct systematic physical examinations of different areas of the body including the respiratory system, cardiovascular system and the central nervous system.
This course can be completed at both an undergraduate and postgraduate level.
You will cover all aspects of clinical history taking and physical examination, including the principles of history taking and history taking and physical examination of the following:
This course is taught via problem-based learning, group discussion, interactive lectures, simulation, workshop sessions, and virtual learning environment.
There is a total of 70 hours of face-to-face contact time.
The course is assessed in two ways, a six-station OSCE and a 3,000-word clinical case review.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex on City Campus, which boasts excellent facilities and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
Students must be registered healthcare professionals.
You should have access to a clinical environment where you can observe and conduct the history taking process and physical examinations.
Corporate and Professional Education Team 0191 515 3361 cpd@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  12 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/equity-inclusivity-workplace:
Fostering Equity and Inclusivity in the Workplace is a comprehensive masterclass designed to equip participants with the knowledge, skills, and strategies needed to create safe, affirming, and empowering spaces for all employees, regardless of their background, identity, or experience
Led by Charlotte Feather , Lecturer in Professional Development in the School of Education, this masterclass delves into the nuances of creating inclusive environments and offers practical insights for individuals, organisations, and communities.
This half-day interactive session will draw on contemporary research, government legislation, and lived-experience to provide a holistic understanding of the moral and legal duties in the workplace.
During this half-day training, you'll:
There are no assessments for this course.
Fusing a 19th-century facade with a newly built glass, steel and stone structure, this impressive building houses 3,500sqm of workspace, including 30 offices and seven workshops allowing businesses to start-up, scale up, develop and access advice, research and expertise.
The building is also home to FabLab Sunderland, the North East’s first digital fabrication laboratory and the Enterprise Place, a facility that supports students and graduates to start their own businesses.
This course will be taught at Hope Street Xchange, a fresh and vibrant business centre with a design that encompasses the history and future of Sunderland.
For more information please contact cape@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/climate-change-carbon-footprint:
This is the first masterclass of its kind that the University has offered to businesses.
Research by Sunderland City Council has identified that there is a knowledge and skills gap which they are looking to develop.
The short course will be delivered by an in-house expert to drive the transition towards a net zero economy.
This course is designed for business employees at all levels from SME’s to large businesses and from any industry.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/performing-arts/professional-dance-top-up:
Top up your skills and join a vibrant dance community.
Immerse yourself in the activity of a national dance hub.
Connect to dance in the studio and beyond.
BA (Hons) Professional Dance (Top-Up) is practically focused and has a strong emphasis on developing your dance technique and performance skills in a range of forms.
The course has a strong core training in contemporary dance practice, but also enables you to design your own technical development by engaging in regular classes in other styles.
This is supported by Dance City’s public class programme with over 25 styles to choose from, including commercial, ballet, hip hop, musical theatre and many more.
We value practical learning at Dance City; as such, you will have the opportunity to participate in and lead on real projects.
In Year 3, you'll collaborate to manage, coordinate, and curate a festival of your work at Dance City, open to the public and part of Dance City’s programme.
As well as preparing you for work in dance, the skills developed on our course are highly transferable and will support further study or working life, whatever your path post-degree.
Our course enables you to become a reflective practitioner, independent thinker, and changemaker.
You'll be introduced to the core skills of teaching and facilitation, management, administration, and producing.
You'll be introduced to Dance City’s wider team, including producers, teachers, and dance managers in the first week of the course, so that you can develop relationships and learn from working practitioners.
We'll empower you to engage with the theoretical and social study of dance and apply this to your own work.
We have a special, studio-based approach to this part of the course, and draw together practical choreographic development with dance history and scholarship, also including a unique set of reflective modules.
We pride ourselves on our small community of learners, which means that most sessions will be in your small cohort of peers.
There are interactive lectures and seminars, practical workshops, group work, and significant independent creative work supported by one-to-one tutoring.
Practical group dance classes form a major cornerstone of the course.
Assessments will include:
In addition to these summative assessments, formative assessment points can include written work, presentations, discussion participation and creative tasks.
Dance City is a major UK and international centre for dance.
They have buildings in both Newcastle and Sunderland, which are purpose-built environments with studios, meeting rooms, cafés, and a theatre.
They host performances throughout the year from visiting professional companies, and provide opportunities for regional dancers to showcase their work.
They deliver 70 community classes each week and have many years’ experiences of delivering degree and BTEC courses with performance, education and community at the heart of their work.
They are linked to the National Dance Network, a meeting point of organisations in the UK who support and develop artists from across the world.
Dance City Temple Street Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 4BR
Tel: 0191 261 0505 Email: info@dancecity.co.uk
You will access the library, a range of student support services, student accommodation and generous scholarships through the University of Sunderland.
To study this course, you'll need to have a Level 5 qualification or an equivalent.
For more information on this course and details of upcoming open days, please visit Dance City .
The fee for this course is:
Please note this course isn't available to international students.
This professional dance course develops skills, knowledge, and understanding that'll equip you for a range of careers in performance, dance marketing and management, choreography, dance journalism, community dance, and technical aspects of production.
At Dance City, we're experts in supporting dance professionals.
We support and nurture our graduates to create their dance futures, and work with our graduates as colleagues, collaborators, and peers.
Our students have gone on to perform with companies including balletLORENT, Company of Others, Hit The Ground Running Dance Theatre Company, Lo-Giudice Dance, Fertile Ground, Tavaziva Dance, and Anna Watkins Dance Company, and many create their own work as independent artists, including Beth Veitch, Benedicta Valentina, Alyssa Lisle, and Lila Naruse.
Dance City graduates have embarked on successful teaching and facilitation portfolios with organisations including Phoenix Dance Theatre, Royal Grammar School, Dance City Engagement Team, Dame Allan’s, One Day Creative, Circus Central, and various private dance schools.
As well as working in dance management and producing, like running their own production companies, festivals and more

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/international-business-management:
If you are applying for NOVEMBER 2025
Course starts: 17 November 2025 Apply now
If you are applying for this course for February, click apply now.
If you are applying for this course for June, click apply now.
Course starts: 08 June 2026 Apply now
Do you want to progress your career in international business and management?
This course will strengthen your critical understanding of international business, trade, and strategy.
You'll explore international trade, strategy, strategic foresight, leadership skills, business analytics, marketing management, and cross cultural management.
You'll also be guided in your final piece of work; a dissertation on an international business management topic of your choosing.
A range of teaching and learning methods including lectures, seminars, and group work will be used to encourage you to develop intellectual and cognitive skills.
All methods will employ, to some extent, the features like didactic exposition, interactive sessions, research, and directed private study.
Case study-based learning is employed throughout the course and is intended to enable you to develop, inter alia, the ability to identify the issues in need of research, apply subject specific knowledge to a realistic and/or practical context, make critical judgements of the merits of a particular argument and present and make reasoned choices between alternative solutions.
The case studies may take the form of real cases or issues in debate at any given moment in time or may be hypothetical problems which are reflective of realistic problems.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this master's degree requires a higher level of independent reading and research.
Evaluate the decisions and processes undertaken by international marketers to compete in global markets.
Look at the design and development of market-responsive programmes.
Enhance your understanding of global marketing, including the selling and distribution of products and services in countries worldwide.
Develop a critical understanding of the role of professional management and strategic leadership in practice in business organisations.
Through the exploration of business issues, problems, and case studies, you'll gain analytical and evaluative skills through an investigation into how key management and leadership decisions impact business organisations.
You'll also examine the results of decision-making in financial and human resources management as part of professional identity and business development.
To apply for this course, you'll need a 2:2 honours degree or above in any discipline.
When you graduate from this course, you'll have excellent business skills and you’ll be ready to step into a leadership or management role in a wide variety of industries.
Multinational corporations need managers and business leaders who have an international outlook and can work across the global economy.
MSc International Business Management is an excellent choice for those that desire to work in international business.
Some of the companies which employ our graduates include Microsoft, IBM, Nike, Adidas, P&G, Lloyds Bank, Marriott Hotels, and the NHS.
We invite business leaders into the University to share their experiences with you.
Past speakers include John Sisk & Son's Senior Project Manager, Production Control Director from Nissan, the Head of Studios at Warner Bros UK, senior consultants from Global Blackswan, Sunderland Football Club’s CEO, and several successful entrepreneurs from the North East.
Page last updated:  11 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-project-management:
If you are applying for the January 2025 intake, click apply now.
Whatever your degree topic you can join this course and take your first step to becoming a project management professional and joining one of the world’s fastest growing professions.
There is a need for project management professionals on every continent and in virtually any field of work.
This MSc Project Management course is designed to teach people from any discipline or degree background, unlike other project management courses, whether you are from a business, arts or technical background this course is for you.
The course has been designed in line with the requirements of both the Project Management Institute (PMI) and the Association for Project Management (APM).
The taught modules ensure you develop a well-rounded set of project and general management skills, including Project Management Basics, Project Delivery Methods including agile, International Project Management, Managing People and Project Leadership, Understanding Organisations, Project Funding and Tendering, Project Risk Management and Quality Management.
Speakers from outside the University also contribute to the course, providing real-world case studies.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, class discussions, case studies, a project management business game, group work, presentations and applied study.
Your progress will be assessed with individual written reports and research papers, practical assignments and finally your masters dissertation.
The course has no assessment by examination.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this Masters course requires a higher level of independent reading and research.
Consider some of the issues facing project managers who must efficiently and effectively oversee the delivery of projects, to include consideration of a range of international contexts.
Using your research and critical analysis skills, draw on the knowledge you have gained during the course to address a real engineering problem or research question at the forefront of the discipline.
The St Peter’s Library contains over 31,000 books related to project management, business, economics, management, human resources, marketing and strategy, with many more titles available through the inter-library loan service.
You’ll be based at The David Goldman Technology Centre, on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
The David Goldman Technology Centre is an impressive, modern, purpose built University building with views of the River Wear, and just a short walk to both Sunderland town centre and Roker beach and the sea.
On the Sir Tom Cowie Campus, you will find all you need for your studies including:
We usually require applicants to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree in any subject.
We will also consider applicants who have other qualifications and substantial work experience.
A masters degree in project management will open up a wide range of employment opportunities for you.
Project Managers can be found in most sectors of industry, governments, consulting, non-profit organisations, the arts and many other sectors.
Past graduates of our MSc in Project Management can be found in all of these sectors developing successful and dynamic careers.
Project managers have skills that are relevant to most industries and it is one of the fastest growing professions worldwide.
We invite experienced project professionals and project managers into the University to share their experiences with students.
Past speakers have included the Chief Information Officer of BT, a senior NHS project manager and senior project management consultants.
We also have close links with the PMI and APM in the North East England and the events organised by them provide students with excellent networking opportunities.
Page last updated:  10 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/advanced-paediatric-clinical-management-skills:
Critically appraise contemporary sources of evidence to inform advanced paediatric clinical management in a range of complex and unpredictable situations.
Analyse the theoretical constructs of medico-legal, ethical, moral and safeguarding issues encountered in paediatric advanced practice.
Differentiate, discuss and analyse discourse in child and family assessment, diagnosis and management.
This 20-credit Level 7 module will offer you the opportunity to develop your advanced communication, clinical assessment, examination, and clinical decision-making and management skills in your field of practice.
Working at an advanced level of clinical practice, in a role that requires the assessment and management of children, you'll develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions by discussing, debating and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery that meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice and have ethical, moral and safeguarding principles embedded throughout.
This module is delivered fully face-to-face at City Campus via interactive lectures, simulations, and problem-based learning.
There is a total of 90 hours contact time with additional self-directed study available via the virtual learning environment.
You'll typically be on campus on a Tuesday where your day will comprise of: 9am – 11am: Epidemiology of common and rare conditions, diagnostic criteria, and assessment tools 11:30am – 13:30pm: Assessment, treatment, and management planning theory 2pm – 4pm: Clinical assessment theory and practice via simulated patient interactions
Assessment 1: Assignment.
Theoretically you'll deconstruct a complex case from practice and critically appraise the care decisions made, the interventions undertaken and identify, debate and analyse the key components of your decision-making.
Reviewing the outcome of the case to critically appraise and justify the clinical actions taken in a written report.
Assessment 2: Objectively Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE).
You'll undertake a 25-minute single-station OSCE, in which you'll demonstrate consultation and clinical history skills, advanced physical assessment, diagnostic reasoning, and management skills.
You will gain 20 credits at the end of the module.
Clinical Skills seminars will take place in the Sciences Complex, which contains the Living Lab, an integrated facility, supported with IT connectivity that enables a range of patient journeys and scenarios to be modelled.
Applicants are required to meet the following entry requirements: Registered healthcare professional, registered with the NMC/HCPC Provide evidence of a level 6 study Work within a clinical role where the assessment and examination of children and young people is required.
You will need a clinical supervisor in practice who is able to support development of the advanced clinical management of children and young people.
The fee for this course is £840.
This module can be studied as a standalone CPD option for healthcare professionals wishing to credential as an Advanced Clinical Practitioner with NHS England (formerly Health Education England).
Alternatively, this module can be studied as part of the MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner apprenticeship .
In order to maximise the learning potential for all students and recognising the diverse and dynamic ACP roles in healthcare, you will work alongside a range of students from different disciplines, and receive high-quality teaching from specialist paediatric lecturers who can help you develop the skills to assess a range of conditions in children and young people.
For further information on either the advanced chronic disease management module or the MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner apprenticeship, please contact ACP@sunderland.ac.uk .
Applications for this course can be submitted to Cape at cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/foundations-ophthalmic-nursing-practice:
This short course aims to equip clinicians at the frontline of patient assessment, diagnosis, and management with the prerequisite knowledge and skills necessary to make evidence-based decisions on the most appropriate and effective treatment pathways for patients presenting with ophthalmological pathology.
This course is designed for r egistered nurses working within ophthalmology and is unique in the north east of England.
Content for this module includes:
The course will run for 16 weeks with alternating on-campus teaching and self-directed study.
The dates for the on-campus sessions are:
In addition to this, there will be self-directed study days in between teaching sessions and two online tutorial sessions.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex on city campus, which boasts excellent facilities and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
Applicants must be registered nurses, working in ophthalmology and have previously studied at a minimum Level 5.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/postgraduate-mnurse-adult:
Study the seven platforms of nursing proficiency through a blended curriculum.
Learn through a combination of online and face-to-face activities.
Graduate with the qualifications needed to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council as a Registered Nurse (Adult).
This MNurse (Adult) course is designed to promote the development of high levels of knowledge, skills and professionalism.
The course is two years in length, with a yearly cohort starting in September, and will lead to a master's degree in Adult Nursing.
It is a pre-registration course aimed at graduates, so as well as gaining a master's degree in Nursing, you'll also be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to become a Registered Nurse (Adult).
This is an intense course which will require commitment and dedication to succeed.
It has been developed with a blended learning curriculum which will enable you to study at home, as well as regular teaching days on campus and on clinical placement.
The MNurse course will allow you to be taught in a variety of ways through a blended learning curriculum.
Blended learning combines face-to-face and online activities in a seamless and complementary flow of learning.
For example, in the flipped classroom, online activity is introduced before a face-to-face class in the form of reading materials and other artefacts.
These resources provide a springboard for you to conduct further online research through personal learning networks (PLN) and digital curation activities.
Subsequent classroom time is spent in small groups with the aim of deepening this learning through problem-based activities or in simulation fostering clinical decision-making and developing essential skills for nursing interventions.
The core curriculum will cover the seven Platforms of nursing proficiency (NMC, 2018): being an accountable professional, promoting health and preventing ill-health, assessing and planning care, providing and evaluating care, leading and managing nursing care and working in teams, improving safety and quality of care, and coordinating care.
You'll be assessed using a variety of methods, including essays, exams, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE), presentations, and competency-based assessment in the practice placement.
Develop knowledge and the application of nursing practice interventions, enabling you to provide evidence-based, safe, and compassionate physical and psychological care.
Learn how to formulate a nursing plan of care and undertake observations and clinical interventions with less direct supervision.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to your own research and advanced scholarship.
Evaluate methodologies and apply critiques of them, synthesising and evaluating previous studies to identify future research.
Demonstrate critical awareness of contemporary issues in nursing, enabling you to be at the forefront of your discipline.
Develop the knowledge and skills enabling you to apply evidence based practice to your nursing practice, ensuring you provide safe and compassionate nursing care.
Create a project proposal on improving safety and quality of care.
Develop your knowledge and application of nursing to practise within a range of clinical settings.
Consider the care for individuals with complex health needs with emphasis on the concept of co-morbidity and the implications for care this entails.
Enhance your understanding of interprofessional working and develop leadership and management skills when working within diverse professional teams.
You will Explore your application to healthcare and reflect on personal strengths, along with areas for development.
Be at the forefront of professional nursing practice by combining clinical practice with a practical understanding how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline.
Develop a substantive project which is both purposeful to your current or future employer and practical in approach.
Explore the context of care or mechanisms of delivery of healthcare and undertake projects which have a direct influence upon your particular area of practice.
Gain the capability of autonomous critical thinking across every aspect of your role as a healthcare provider in the 21st century.
The MNurse (Adult) course is a unique postgraduate nursing degree, designed to grow the nursing workforce by opening up the profession to a much wider range of people.
In this article, you can find out more about this master’s in nursing, from the skills and knowledge you’ll gain to how it can help your career in healthcare once you’ve graduated.
Read more about our MNurse postgraduate degree
Each module has a practice placement element so 50% of the course is taught in a clinical setting, while the 50% theory takes place in the University and online.
This course is open to anyone who holds a health-related degree at 2:2 or above and registrants from another field of nursing.
Applicants will have to demonstrate a minimum of 600 hours of theory (gained from your first degree) and 600 hours of healthcare experience in order to APL (Accreditation of Prior Learning)/RPL (Recognition of Prior Learning) out of the necessary hours for the course.
We also require you to have GCSE maths and English at Grade 4 or above (or equivalent).
Healthcare experience and Portfolio of Evidence You must demonstrate 600 hours or more of formal or informal healthcare experience.
Formal healthcare experience can be in the public or private sector.
Once you've been shortlisted for interview, you'll be required to complete a portfolio of evidence as part of the APL process to ensure the 600 hours of healthcare experience has been met.
Interview Your completed application form will be reviewed by our Admissions team to ensure that you have the required entry qualifications.
The selection process will include an individual interview and a group activity which will assess your values, problem-solving, and communication skills.
Interviews will take place online via Microsoft Teams.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) This is available to applicants who meet the course specific APL requirements.
It may apply to applicants who wish to transfer their NMC approved nursing studies from another university where they've achieved 120 credits at Level 4.
If you're interested in the APL route, please contact the admissions tutors for further information: Shelly Rowell at shelly.rowell@sunderland.ac.uk or on 07976215092, or Helen Robinson at helen.robinson@sunderland.ac.uk or on 07977451156.
Fitness to Practise: Medical assessments of your mental and physical health and disclosure of criminal convictions apply to all nursing courses and are based on current NMC requirements.
Please refer to the HEOPS nursing student standards .
These forms are then reviewed alongside your application, and you must meet both the academic and fitness to practise requirements before you're given an unconditional offer.
English language requirements for international applicants If you are an international applicant, you must meet the NMC English language standards.
You must provide a valid test result from one of the following: IELTS (Academic version): Overall score: 7.0 Minimum 7.0 in speaking, listening, reading Minimum 6.5 in writing OET (Nursing version): Overall grade: B Minimum Grade B in speaking, listening, reading Minimum Grade C+ in writing Tests must be taken within the last two years, and no other forms of English evidence will be accepted Exemption for university of Sunderland graduates If you completed a degree or master’s level course at the University within the past five years, you do not need to submit an English test.
If you studied at another UK university, exemption may be considered on a case-by-case basis.
You must demonstrate 600 hours or more of formal or informal healthcare experience.
This is available to applicants who meet the course specific APL requirements.
If you are an international applicant, you must meet the NMC English language standards.
Tests must be taken within the last two years, and no other forms of English evidence will be accepted Exemption for university of Sunderland graduates If you completed a degree or master’s level course at the University within the past five years, you do not need to submit an English test.
If you completed a degree or master’s level course at the University within the past five years, you do not need to submit an English test.
Find out if you qualify as a UK, EU or international student .
Postgraduate pre-registration healthcare courses, such as MNurse, attract undergraduate funding from the UK student finance system, instead of the postgraduate loans system.
Therefore, you must apply for undergraduate student finance from your national student finance body.
A non-repayable grant of £5,000 and extra payments worth up to £3,000 is available to eligible home students for each year of study.
Read more about the training grant on The NHS Business Services Authority website .
Adult nursing is a rewarding and challenging career where you have a real chance to make a difference to people's lives.
The completion of this MNurse course will lead to registration as an adult nurse.
There are opportunities to enter into industries such as the NHS, the military, private and voluntary organisations, and primary care.
There are almost 47,000 NHS nursing vacancies in the UK, so the opportunities for newly qualified adult nurses are immense.
Adult nurses make up the largest part of the NHS workforce.
You will be at the centre of teams that can include physiotherapists, occupational therapists, pharmacists, radiographers and healthcare assistants.
Start your nursing career at the University of Sunderland with one of our partner Trusts and develop lifelong nursing skills in a collaborative and supportive environment.
Many career opportunities are available post-qualification and with additional qualifications, nurses have the potential of earning even more.
At all levels of the course, you will undertake unpaid clinical placements in hospitals and the community.
Placements are organised by the University and make up 50% of the course.
You will undertake your placements at Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust, South Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust, or North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust.
There is opportunity for placements to be hosted in additional different local NHS Foundation Trusts, this will be discussed depending on each individual student's needs.
During your placements, you will be assigned a Practice Assessor and Practice Supervisors who will directly supervise you, as well as act as a means of support and guidance.
Claims are made via a learning support fund online account.
Page last updated:  31 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/medicine/diploma-medical-education:
Expand your knowledge and skills in medical education.
Focus on areas relevant to your current and future medical education practice.
Take a crucial step in obtaining a full master's qualification.
The Diploma in Medical Education is designed for those looking to build on their PG Cert and deepen their expertise in medical education.
It is ideal for health professionals who regularly train or supervise medical students and resident doctors, as well as those in dental and veterinary education.
This course equips you to deliver high-quality, practical training in today’s fast-paced healthcare environment, where time is limited, and patient care is the priority.
You’ll have the opportunity to tailor your learning to areas relevant to your current and future medical education practice, supporting your career development.
For those looking to advance further, the Diploma provides a pathway toward a full Masters qualification in medical education.
The course combines online lectures, group seminars, interactive workshops, self-study, and activities via the Canvas platform.
Regular in-person study days provide opportunities for you to network with fellow students and engage in creative and interactive learning activities.
In person writing days and online academic writing sessions help develop your academic writing skills, provide protected time for writing your assignments and opportunity for feedback from course and library staff.
Online drop-in sessions provide opportunity for you to gain feedback on your work in progress.
You will be formally assessed using multiple methods including critical reflective and essay writing, individual presentation, and portfolio.
There will be multiple opportunities to engage in formative assessments to gain valuable feedback on your work as you progress through the course.
All modules are worth 30 credits.
Any can be chosen though we advise ' Research Methodology in Medical Education' if you intend to go on to the final Masters stage.
This module examines the support and supervision aspects of medical education, extending beyond teaching to roles such as postgraduate educational supervisors, personal tutors, and programme leads.
Grounded in GMC supervision domains, it covers essential areas including learning environments, educational culture, governance, and support for both learners and educators.
Designed to introduce students to qualitative and educational research methodology , this module helps you to frame research questions and develop study designs .
If you plan to complete the final Master s qualification through a research project , this module is essential unless you have prior relevant training.
This module aims to support career development for those in , or aspiring to , educational leaders h ip roles such as programme leads, training directors, and foundation tutors , provid ing a strong foundation in leadership theory and styles .
The module is taught by leaders in the field and university academics.
A dynamic and evolving module, this module focuses on innovation in medical education technology .
Participants will explore emerging and established teaching methods , including MOOCs, screencasts, flipped classrooms, shared learning spaces, e-portfolios, and effective online presentation techniques .
This module ensures you stay at the forefront of digital education advancements .
This course is based in the School of Medicine at our City Campus.
Teaching may take place online (Microsoft Teams) and in-person (on site) in Murray Health, and/or Gateway/Edinburgh building.
You should be actively involved in teaching or supervising medical students, doctors, dentists, or veterinarians within current UK practice .
Applicants will hold a medical degree (MB BS, MBChB) or a first degree of 2:2 or above.
University of Sunderland staff will apply via the HR staff qualifications policy agreeing workload remission and support with their line manager.
This course is suitable for applicants to enter with advanced standing.
You will need at least 60 credits or equivalent to be suitable for entry.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) is permitted for up to 120 credits.
APL will normally be applied against the modules in the Postgraduate Certificate usually because the applicant holds a Postgraduate Certificate of equivalence.
Normal university processes of mapping learning outcomes will be applied.
APL is permitted only where all of the course learning outcomes to the level of a particular exit award have been met.
Please email postgraduatemeded@sunderland.ac.uk if you have questions about your suitability for the course.
The tuition fee for this course is:
As this course is part-time, we can only consider international students currently residing in the UK on a suitable visa that covers the duration of your studies (e.g.
Tier 2).
If you wish to go on to study Master of Medical Education , the next-year tuition fee would be the same as above.
Our goal is to equip you with the skills and expertise to advance your career in medical education.
These courses are designed to support your development as a supervisor, teacher, course organi s er, training programme lead, and beyond.
Page last updated:  27 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/digital-marketing:
This masterclass has been created to help you to develop and implement effective digital marketing activity.
In the world of digital marketing, it's easy to become overwhelmed.
There are lots of emerging channels and trendy new tactics.
To deliver effective activity, it's essential to understand your objective and remain focused on a plan.
It will help you to develop a strategy and choose the most appropriate and effective tactics for your organisation.
This course is for business managers, owners, and people responsible for marketing within their business or organisation who might not have any formal marketing or digital marketing qualifications.
In this masterclass, you'll cover digital marketing strategy, including the digital marketing funnel, the inbound marketing wheel, and content marketing strategy.
You'll also cover digital tactics, including website best practices, SEO, email marketing, and social media strategy.
An introductory section, which then breaks down into three main stages:
Each stage contains various units.
Page last updated:  23 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/introduction-project-management:
This masterclass provides you with the opportunity to develop knowledge and understanding of project management approaches and apply project management principles and practices to organisations.
It's aimed at individuals from private, public, and third-sector organisations, business owners, managers, or people from within an organisation who are interested in developing their understanding of project management and wish to increase their project management effectiveness.
The course is designed and delivered by highly qualified practitioners who have experience and expertise in their subject.
This masterclass will be interactive, requiring the practical application of project management techniques to build skills and enhance effectiveness.
Content will be focused on your requirements, covering a range of topics.
There is no formal accreditation or assessment but you'll be asked to reflect on your experience, providing evidence of the impact of the course with a consideration of how this might inform your future development.
The masterclass is normally delivered at St Peter's Campus, Sunderland, but for closed and bespoke cohorts, the course can be delivered at your workplace.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/postgraduate-inequality-society:
Learn about inequality issues on a local, national and global level.
Discover what causes it and explore strategies for change.
Build skills for a career in public service, charities, or education, or take your studies further with a PhD.
What is inequality, and why does it matter?
Why do some people have more money, chances, or power than others?
How does this affect everyday life, and what can we do about it?
This course dives into big questions about economic and social inequality.
You’ll explore what inequality looks like, where it comes from, and how it affects people differently depending on gender, age, ethnicity, religion, education, and where they live.
You’ll learn to think deeply and critically, using ideas from philosophy, politics, and social science.
You’ll also look at real-life data to understand how inequality is measured – and how it shows up in the world around us.
You’ll build skills in research, writing, presenting, and problem-solving – skills that are useful in many careers.
Want to learn how to write a funding proposal?
Run a podcast?
Use research tools like SPSS or NVivo?
You can do that here.
You can tailor the course to your interests by choosing from a range of topics, such as health and inequality, Race, gender, disability, digital media, and social cohesion.
You'll also explore t opics fr om national and global perspectives, such as the specific challenges facing post-industrial regions like the n orth-east .
Many of our modules align with real-world goals, including the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and current UK policy challenges.
This course helps prepare you for careers in public service, research, non-profits, media, and more.
It gives you tools to understand the world – and maybe even change it.
The full-time course is studied over one year from October to September.
The course runs on a Tuesday with modules in three-hour blocks (1 – 4pm and 5 – 8pm) to fit around work and childcare commitments.
The course will typically be taught as follows:
All classes in semester one are on Tuesdays.
These are held in the afternoon (1 – 4pm for the first core module) and evening (5 – 8pm for the second core module).
Development sessions are optional.
They also run on certain Tuesdays throughout semester one and two.
These sessions will cover topics such as writing a PhD proposal, searching for academic journals, exploring additional research methods, providing dissertation drop-ins, employability and graduate support, and opportunities to give course feedback.
All classes in semester two are also on Tuesdays in the same timeslots (1–4pm and 5–8pm).
Alongside writing your dissertation, there will be two mandatory dissertation workshops to prepare you for your dissertation research.
These run on Tuesdays, 1–4pm, between semesters one and two (in February).
You'll be provided with an academic calendar with the exact dates when you enrol.
The part-time version is studied over two years and follows the same day and time slots as full-time students.
However, in your first year you'll study a core module in semester one (5–8pm) and an optional module in either the 1–4pm or 5–8pm slot in semester two.
In your second year, you'll complete your second core module in semester one, a second optional module in semester two, and your dissertation module.
As part of your dissertation module, you must also take part in a day-long MSc Dissertation Conference in the September you are due to complete the course.
We would also encourage you to attend other voluntary training courses and opportunities where possible.
A typical week for you, whether full-time or part-time, will include interactive lectures, seminars, workshops, blended learning, group and individual work, and computer-based learning.
Throughout the course, you'll have one-to-one support from an allocated Personal Academic Tutor who will meet with you regularly.
Explore theories and approaches to understanding how economic and social inequalities and exclusion arise and shape contemporary social life in the 21st century.
Learn how they can play an important role in, and be a major obstacle to, effective engagement in civil life and the successful working of many private, public, and third-sector organisations.
Plan, construct, and implement a researchable problem as a social researcher.
Examine the different methods used by social researchers to analyse our social world.
Learn important software to help your research further, such as SPSS for quantitative research and NVivo for qualitative research.
Complete a comparative research study, a research proposal, and a practical skills assessment using what you have learned so far.
Use these skills to develop yourself as a social researcher and to take these skills further to social research organisations, government departments, the private sector, charities, and further study.
Please note that some optional modules may not run depending on the number of students taking them and staff availability.
Gain a critical understanding of how theories of social cohesion, integration, and community have developed over time.
Explore how issues like inequality, exclusion, globalisation, and shifting demographics shape social relationships today.
Apply key theories and real-world evidence to make sense of current challenges facing communities locally and globally.
What are the physical and mental health inequalities faced by people across the course?
Examine historical and current inequalities in both physical and mental health in the UK and globally.
Focus on how inequality is treated from the perspective of the effects of social class, gender, ethnicity and other factors, as well as the interrelationship between them.
Complete an essay which will develop your analysis of health inequalities at a local or global level, which is ideal for those wanting to work in the statutory, public and charity sector working to address health inequalities at all stages throughout the life course.
What does it mean to be LGBTQI+ (or ‘queer’) today in the social world?
What are the structural barriers and inequalities faced by queer people across the globe?
Why does global homophobia, biphobia and transphobia exist?
Probe these questions which will form the basis of this module as struggles over LGBTQI+ identity politics, human rights and inequalities have become more prominent in world politics.
Examine key debates, movements and changes around an increasing awareness of sexuality and gender identity and explore the issues faced by queer lives, communities, cultures and societies both locally and across the globe.
Finish the module by completing a research report for the United Nations Independent SOGI Expert, which is ideal for those wanting to work for national or global bodies in human rights, charity work, international development and social justice campaigns.
Explore intersectionality as both a theory and a tool for driving change in today’s diverse organisations.
You'll examine how overlapping identities – such as race, gender, class, sexuality, and disability – shape experiences of exclusion, and learn how to apply this understanding in professional practice.
Through real-world case studies and current social issues, you'll develop the skills to make inclusive, informed decisions and lead meaningful change.
Assessments are designed to build your confidence and critical thinking for future careers.
Develop your knowledge of why activists, social justice and resistance groups develop as a site of resistance against wider forms of inequality and discrimination.
Develop your knowledge of theories of social change and the movements and campaigns seeking to achieve this change, including their own impacts, successes and failures.
Focus on local to global issues as you explore case studies of movements using examples such as the Arab Spring, #MeToo, migrant rights, climate change activists, anti-poverty, FairTrade and human rights.
Distinguish the forces working to curtail and oppress activist and social justice networks and their levels of success in doing this.
Finish the module with developing a skills toolkit in exploring how activism methodologies work and through writing a campaign pack for an activist or social justice movement which is ideal for those seeking to work in campaigning, social justice, human rights and advocacy of oppressed voices.
Explore the ways in which the concepts of wealth and worth frame the organisation of contemporary social life.
Interpret and evaluate how sociological theory and research have made sense of increasing wealth inequality through the notions of neoliberalism and the embedding of competition into every sphere of social life.
Develop and apply your knowledge by exploring case studies on the impacts of wealth management policies and evaluations of people's "worth" across a range of social contexts.
Apply critical evaluative skills through engagement with theoretical concepts, current research data, policy documentation, and public/political commentary on issues relating to wealth distribution, social inclusion/exclusion, and economic crises.
What is the relationship between sex, gender, citizenship and the state?
Examine how we live in societies and nation states with differing legal frameworks which shape our everyday interactions.
Explore the politics of gender in our global world and some of the most pressing social issues, such as human trafficking, sex work, transgender identities, pornography and gender-based violence.
Investigate theoretical approaches to gender such as masculinities, post-structuralism, black feminism and materialist feminist theories.
Complete an academic poster review assessment and finish the module with a firm grasp of gender-based issues and human rights, which is ideal for those seeking to work in fields such as global and local human rights, gender-based issues, international development and working in the Third Sector.
Develop a critical approach to the understanding of ‘race’ and assess the social implications of contemporary practices of racism, and persistent racial and racist ideas.
Explore theoretical approaches to notions of ‘race’ and ask key questions, such as: How are racial ideas conceptualised and justified through a variety of biological, social, and cultural discourses?
How did ‘race’ and ethnicity come to be defined and embedded in the context of colonial and post-colonial rule?
What are the often-complex relations between ideas of ‘race’, the production of difference and identity, and the pervasiveness of social exclusion?
Why does ‘race’ remain such a powerful determinant of individual and collective identities, in the UK and globally?
Explore indicative topics such as, multiculturalism, caste, the construction of the ‘migrant,’ decolonisation, xenophobia, Islamophobia and Afrophobia.
Finish the module by producing an anti-racism(s) pack to add to your employability skills, which is ideal for those who wish to work in education, the Third Sector, equality and diversity work, and social justice campaigns.
The study of the body in its many forms continues to develop as an interdisciplinary knowledge base.
As we continue to push for acceptability of diversities and broader equality, the ‘othering’ between the impaired and the ‘able-bodied’ still stands.
This module will allow you to develop existing knowledge of disability, illness, and impairment, using a variety of theoretical frameworks that stand outside of the dominant healthcare model.
By exploring the use of institutions as a mode of social control and a way to perpetuate ‘othering’, this module creates a space to consider alternative explanations of disability and impairment by empowering the voices of those with lived experience.
Finish this module by preparing a case study based around lived experience and participatory methodologies, then proposing alternative means of how to tackle the social phenomena at the heart of your case study.
Become a specialist and use your research training, theory and subject knowledge to investigate an area of inequality or inequalities in the social world either locally or globally and investigate solutions to them.
Learn emancipatory research techniques and methods and use these new skills in gathering data to change our social world.
Present your research findings and solutions from your research at an MSc conference in front of your peers and staff.
Use the skills and knowledge gained from this to work in education, social research, business, charity or public sector organisations at a local, national or global level or to take your studies further to PhD level.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a second-class honours degree (usually a 2:1 or above) or equivalent.
We welcome applicants with degrees in areas such as social sciences, psychology, business, law, education, humanities, health, arts, technology, and the sciences.
Experience may be counted towards your application.
We provide some introductory content as part of our online ‘Flying Start’ module to cover the basics, but we recommend that you have knowledge of, or read about, sociological theories and concepts, before starting the course.
Applicants whose first language isn't English must achieve a minimum IELTS score of 6.5 in all four areas.
Part-time fees are £500 per 10 credits.
Please note that part-time courses aren't available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
This course creates a number of career options.
Your expert knowledge of equality and diversity, data analysis, and strong research skills will be highly prized by employers.
You'll become a specialist in your chosen area of inequality.
Many of our graduates work in human rights, equality, inclusion and diversity, education, the criminal justice system, the private sector and business, local and national government, international development, social justice campaign work, advocacy, and social research.
Many also go on to study a postgraduate research qualification, such as a PhD.
Graduates of this course will be able to forge careers:
At the beginning of the course, a full induction and Flying Start pre-course module will introduce you to the Employability and Enterprise Hub , offering a range of career and CV-enhancing services.
Optional development sessions during the course will support you in learning new skills, research methods, and boosting future employment opportunities.
There may also be additional training courses to top up your CV, and we'll promote opportunities for you to attend conferences and events.
The additional courses may be on different days to timetabled modules.
You may be offered opportunities to engage with short or long-term internships with organisations that are involved with tackling social inequalities or carrying out related social research.
This is a great way to gain experience with cutting-edge organisations as you study, and may form the basis of your final dissertation topic.
Previous MSc students have taken positions with acclaimed organisations such as The Equality Trust and JustFair.
At the end of the course in the September, you'll take part in arranging and presenting your dissertation findings in front of your peers and staff members.
This is a supportive experience that allows you to familiarise yourself with presenting research and associated findings in a conference setting, which will enhance your confidence, CV, and career development.
CASS regularly hosts visiting speakers and holds events that you'll be invited to.
This can be an excellent way to learn from the real-life experience of experts in the field who already have a strong track record in sociological and social policy related research.
PhD options include:
Page last updated:  25 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/medicine/master-medical-education-intercalating:
Explore the complexities of medical training within a regulated framework, focusing on quality management, learner and educator support, student success, retention, attainment, and fitness to practise.
Engage with theory, evidence, and practice, designing and conducting your own independent study with expert supervision.
Deep dive into the fundamentals of teaching and learning.
The full-time Master of Medical Education is designed for those who teach and lead in undergraduate and postgraduate medical education.
It's suitable for intercalating medical or dental students with a strong interest in medical education practice or careers.
The course provides a deep dive into the fundamentals of teaching and learning, alongside a critical examination of assessment methods in medical education.
Topics include work-based competency assessment, professionalism evaluation, and knowledge assessment, as well as the latest advancements in technology-enhanced learning.
You'll explore the complexities of medical training within a regulated framework, focusing on quality management, learner and educator support, student success, retention, attainment, and fitness to practise.
A strong emphasis is placed on research, where you'll engage with theory, evidence, and practice, designing and conducting your own independent study with expert supervision.
You'll receive one-on-one support, along with regular peer group sessions to foster collaboration and shared learning.
The course combines synchronous online lectures, group seminars, interactive workshops, self-study, and asynchronous activities via the Canvas platform.
Online drop-in and presentation sessions provide opportunity for you to gain feedback on your work in progress.
Assessment will be conducted through a variety of methods, including critical and reflective writing, individual presentations, and portfolio.
In the final research module, you will be assessed on a journal-ready written paper, a conference-ready poster, and a viva-style presentation.
Throughout the course, you will have numerous opportunities for formative assessment, allowing you to receive constructive feedback to support your development.
This module introduces you to learning theory and how to apply this day to day, ensuring you develop an evidence base to your teaching practice.
An overview of qualitative research methodology, allowing you to explore a whole new area of medical education.
The clinical workplace can be complex and you need to be able to manage and understand this to teach and assess effectively.
The module is delivered by experienced clinicians who help you through this.
This module looks at theoretical principles, deliver, methodologies, opportunities and risks associated with TEL in medical education.
Throughout the year you will build a full research project concluding with a paper ready for publication, a presentation and a poster all ready to be shared with the wider medical education community.
In each of the first two terms you complete two modules, gaining 30 credits per module.
The Academic Practice: Independent Module is delivered throughout the whole year, and it is assessed at the end of the year when you have gained the knowledge and skills to complete it.
This course is based in the Murray Health building at our City Campus.
You are required to be a medical or dental student in good standing with your university.
You need to have completed at least the first three years of your degree and be expected to pass that third year if you are applying at that stage.
A suitable reference will be required.
You can apply for this full time course as a postgraduate doctor or dentist but as this is a full time programme it is recommended you speak to the programme lead before applying, the part time course is more likely to be suitable.
We can only consider international students currently residing in the UK on a suitable visa that covers the duration of your studies (e.g.
On completion of the course, you may look to find employment at higher education institutions, or clinical teaching roles in the public and private sector (subject to meeting the role specification requirements).
The majority of students who study this course will become qualified doctors or dentists seeking to develop their career in medical education.
The course is designed to develop your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and as such, will ensure that you are able to offer student-centred teaching and learning experiences.
Medical education is a very varied field and the programme lead is happy to discuss your future career options as part of the support we offer through this course.
Page last updated:  15 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/medicine/master-medical-education:
Undertake a research project or comprehensive literature review in a field related to medical education.
Explore the fundamentals of teaching and learning.
Critically examine a topic of relevance.
The student will have built their knowledge either through attending our Certificate and Diploma years or will be able to evidence equivalent qualifications to that level (120 credits) using the APL process.
The project is a chance to explore the fundamentals of teaching and learning and critically examine a topic of relevance.
One to one support is provided throughout the year with a named supervisor as well as regular group catch up sessions with both peer and online support.
Our library team is also there to help.
In t his final research module, you will be assessed on a journal-ready written paper, a conference-ready poster, and a viva-style presentation.
Throughout the course, you will have numerou s opportunities for formative assessment, allowing you to receive constructive feedback to support your development.
The student enters this year with 120 credits in place.
One 60 credit module is delivered over the year with assessments as described to total the 180 credits you require to obtain a Masters qualification.
This course is based in the Murray Health buildin g at our City Campus.
You are expected to be a regular teacher or supervisor of medical/dental students or doctors/dentists in current UK practice.
Applicants will hold a medical or dental degree or a first degree of 2:2 or above.
APL will normally be applied against the modules in the Postgraduate Certificate level of this programme.
We encourage potential applicants to contact the course team if there are any uncertainties, to ensure that the course learning outcomes can be achieved and that the route is suitable for you.
Please email postgraduatemeded@sunderland.ac.uk to arrange this.
As this course is part-time, we can only consider international students currently residing in the UK on a suitable visa that covers the duration of your studies (e.g.
Page last updated:  09 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-data-science:
If you are applying for this course for January, click apply now.
Harness new forms of data with increasingly powerful computer techniques.
Gain the technical and practical skills to analyse big data.
Study a unique course developed according to the needs of the employment sector.
The UK Government has identified a huge shortage of specialists in data science and artificial intelligence.
The University of Sunderland is looking for a new generation of idealists, visionaries and problem solvers to help business, industry and government make the right decisions in our increasingly complex and uncertain world.
This course is designed for students who have computing, STEM experience or prior experience in working with data (e.g.
statistics), to gain the knowledge and skills required to work in data science or data analytics in the real world.
We are looking for people who ask questions, who don’t jump to conclusions, and who respond with caution.
We want people who are able to find and communicate the best possible solutions.
On this course, you'll study subjects including the fundamentals of data science, data mining, machine learning, data analytics and visualisation, and security of big data.
This highly practical course means you’ll have the opportunity to experience the latest technologies and tools used in industry, giving you the confidence to be productive and effective when you go out into the workplace.
Assessment is 100% coursework-based with no exams.
Methods include written reports and research papers, practical assignments and the Masters project.
Learn how to use different types of data and understand how to fuse more than one dataset together.
Apply a full range of traditional and intelligent analytics to a variety of datasets and make use of modern data science / big data platforms and languages.
Cover techniques and tools for presenting and visualisation.
Learn how to design and develop a data science product to solve a challenging real world problem, based on a systemic literature review on state of the art data science software technologies and project development methodologies, prototyping the product with end users’ evaluations.
Produce a project summary report.
Study three interrelated subjects: machine learning, data mining, and data analytics including relevant professional, ethical, social and legal aspects.
Focus on information and knowledge management, problems with data, approaches to selection of data analytics tools, principles of modelling and simulation, and operations research.
Examine the trends, tools, and current developments in the area of machine learning, data mining and data analytics and their practical applications
Learn to apply the principles, policies and procedures of cybersecurity and data science to provide resilient and robust organisational solutions for secure and valuable information.
Develop techniques and use tools that will enable you to undertake critical analysis of the challenges and opportunities of using cybersecurity to mitigate and manage risk to data and enable business continuity in the case of data breaches.
Develop a critical understanding of governance, standards, audit, assurance and review in order to evaluate the challenges in managing technology.
Develop a practical deliverable and investigate an area of academic research through the support of a sponsor for example: an IT strategy; an investigative study; a technically challenging artefact (e.g.
a feasibility study, design, implementation, re-engineered solution); or undertake a theoretical review based on a novel research question (provided by a research active member of staff).
Underpin the project with a literature review that is a conceptual framework of your study - a systematic synthesis of concepts, assumptions, expectations, beliefs, and theories that supports and informs your research.
Some of the most important sources for computing students include:
Study in a vibrant and supporting environment with state-of-the-art facilities and excellent learning resources.
We are also an accredited Cisco academy and have two laboratories packed with Cisco networking equipment.
We require applicants to hold an undergraduate degree with a classification of 2:2 or above in a computing or related discipline (mathematics, statistics, engineering), or 2:1 or above in a relevant non-computing or related discipline (which has numeracy included and/or application of big data as a significant theme).
Businesses and industries across the UK have identified a skills gap in data science and currently the role of a Data Scientist is one of the highest paid jobs in the computing discipline.
Progress in some of the most attractive fields and industries, including government agencies, high technology companies, consulting and market research firms.
Benefit from the University’s close links with businesses and employers in the North East and join an industry-driven programme.
Page last updated:  08 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-cybersecurity:
If you are applying for this course for January, click Apply Now
Study a fast-growing and exciting subject.
Develop the technical and organisational skills to make a difference to society.
Graduate and embark on a career as a cybersecurity professional in a flourishing sector.
This course is excellent preparation for jobs in cybersecurity, which is a rapidly growing area given the rise in computer-related crime.
You’ll study topics such as network security and cybersecurity in organisations, looking at the processes, procedures and protocols required to implement effective secure and dependable systems.
Using the latest forensic analysis tools, you’ll interrogate data and systems, examining applications of cryptography, secure programming and defensive programming, as well as learning how to design a secure and resilient system.
You’ll be taught by passionate academics who produce internationally-excellent research.
A typical week for you will include lectures, group work, research, discussion groups and seminars.
Cover a range of governance and management topics which will enable you to determine, establish and maintain appropriate governance, delivery and creation of cybersecurity solutions for information, systems and network security.
Understand the underlying technologies of secure systems and gain a critical awareness of the inherent risks and related privacy issues of their use in the cybersecurity environment by applying concepts such as the principles of least privilege, separation of risk, defence in depth and secrecy.
Learn to analyse the range of trade-offs in balancing the security properties of confidentiality, integrity and availability (CIA) and the usability demands of computer and information systems.
Learn how to select the appropriate tools and techniques to address and manage concepts of risk, threats, vulnerabilities and potential attacks.
Explain, apply and evaluate the concepts of trust and trustworthiness in a cybersecurity context and apply the issues associated with authentication, authorisation and access control.
Consider cybersecurity in design and development using the concepts of secure design across a range of platforms and problem areas.
Study applied cryptography, secure programming and defensive programming.
Gain the knowledge and skills to undertake first-response in cyber breach and associated incidents.
Evaluate effective measures for securing evidential content in the wake of an event, technical issues relating to breaches, factors for mitigating risk, the impact this may have on the organisation and those directly affected by breach data loss in a legal context.
Acquire the technical knowledge and skills to respond to breaches and implement proactive measures to potentially prevent their occurrence.
Study the two themes of cybersecurity and usability in software design.
Learn to understand the trade-offs and challenges these themes present.
Research challenges in the areas of usable security through a survey of past and recent research in usable cybersecurity.
Examine the nature of usability and the user experience, as it applies to cybersecurity, the impact of user psychology, user models, usage contents and usability evaluation techniques.
You’ll be based at The David Goldman Technology Centre, on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s; it looks out over the River Wear and is less than a mile from the seaside.
We require applicants to hold an undergraduate degree with a classification of 2:2 or above in computing or a 2:1 or above in a relevant non-computing discipline, such as mathematics, statistics or engineering.
There is a high demand for cybersecurity professionals and the UK government is investing £1.9 billion over the next five years in a cybersecurity strategy that will include automatic defences to protect businesses and individuals.
On completion of this course, you’ll progress in some of the most attractive fields and industries as we prepare you for a range of cybersecurity jobs.
Advance your career in a wide range of roles, including: information security manager, security analyst, security architect, security administrator, incident responder, security engineer, security auditor, security software developer and vulnerability assessor.
The cybersecurity course is underpinned by strong collaboration with employers, and it is further enhanced by the contribution from cybersecurity employers and external experts in a number of ways including a series of guest lectures, master classes and seminars.
Graduates studying Cybersecurity have gone on to secure employment with a range of companies and organisations including: GCHQ, (ISC)2, Accenture, HPE, BT, PWC, SAGE, Sunderland City Council, Northumbria and Durham Police forces and the Cybersecurity Workforce Alliance.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/undergraduate-computer-systems-engineering-top-up:
If you are applying for this course for January, click Apply Now.
Develop practical skills by undertaking a major hands-on project that involves developing a working solution to a particular problem.
Take full advantage of professional-level developer software and advanced hardware that we provide through accreditations with Cisco and other major companies.
This one-year top-up course develops a blend of academic rigour and practical skills as it brings you up to the level of an honours degree.
Take full advantage of professional-level developer software and advanced hardware that we provide through accreditations with Microsoft, Cisco and other major companies.
Further modules include Advanced Cyber Security, Artificial Intelligence and Product Development.
A module on Project Management will equip you for working within project teams in large IT departments or specialist IT companies.
We also use the University’s virtual learning environment for group activities, discussions, assignments and links to resources.
We encourage you to develop independent study skills as well as to work with other students on the course.
Assessment methods include coursework and exams.
Introduces a variety of research approaches and examines how to specify and contextualise a research problem, collect data, analyse and present data, and evaluate the methodology adopted.
The module aims to provide you with the opportunity to develop your abilities in solution development.
In this module you will learn how to analyse the range of tradeoffs in balancing the security properties of confidentiality, integrity and availability.
You will also learn how to select the appropriate tools and techniques to address and manage concepts of risk, threats, vulnerabilities and potential attacks.
Analyse, design, develop, test and deploy native mobile applications using Java and Android Studio.
You will be introduced to native programming, application build and deployment, the Android ecosystem, security and software engineering in a student led and practical manner.
Explore solutions related to complex database systems such as: enhanced data models, query optimisation, clustering, scalability, security, forensic investigation, data warehousing, data analysis tools and more.
Develop your knowledge of current AI principles and your skills in this fast-moving area, which is a particular focus of Sunderland’s research.
The typical entry requirement is successful completion of one of the following: HND or Foundation Degree in a subject related to computer science 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant subject There is a range of qualifications that would satisfy the entry requirements and we will consider each application individually.
There is a range of qualifications that would satisfy the entry requirements and we will consider each application individually.
2025/26 annual fees are:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/advanced-safeguarding-children:
Develop your knowledge of social work in relation to child safeguarding.
Critically evaluate your own practice.
Share your experience with other practitioners.
You'll critically evaluate your own practice through exploring current research in several areas of contemporary safeguarding practice and share knowledge and experience with other social work practitioners.
The course is delivered via interactive workshops at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's over five months between 10am and 4pm on the following dates:
There will also be five hours of asynchronous input via online podcasts.
The total learning time is 300 hours (teaching sessions and independent learning).
Assessment submission will take place on 19 February 2026.
You'll demonstrate your learning by way of a negotiated assessment exploring a piece of your own practice, relating to one of the topics covered on the course.
This could be a written assignment, a presentation, or other assessment format, as agreed with the module leader, testing all learning outcomes.
This course, worth 30 credits, is suitable for people working in social work/care environments with children’s safeguarding responsibilities.
Applicants should have a qualification at Level 6 (or equivalent work experience) and be supported by their employer to complete the course.
Please contact the course leader to discuss: lesley.deacon@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/management-skills-acute-deterioration:
The course aims to build on the existing skills and knowledge of CCOT (Critical Care Outreach Team) registered practitioners by providing scaffolding around the National Critical Care Outreach Competency – Enhanced Level.
This module will provide a more flexible, blended approach and offer students the opportunity to develop their enhanced consultation and diagnostic reasoning skills by engaging in a system-by-system approach to managing a deteriorating patient through online lectures and material alongside consolidation classroom days, encompassing clinical simulation and debrief.
This course is designed for registered practitioners who manage patients requiring critical care input in a range of clinical environments and who do not currently hold the CCORC course or equivalent.
This includes Critical Care Outreach Practitioners or their equivalent and senior nurses working in Critical Care who can rotate into a Critical Care Outreach Team to fulfil the relevant competencie s.
This course will run every Wednesday online from 9-3 pm unless stated.
The on-campus dates are:
The course will run over 6 months.
The course is taught using a blended approach allowing for a more student-focused, flexible learning environment, and will incorporate both synchronous and asynchronous study.
The two simulation/consolidation (on-campus days) will encompass simulation, problem-based learning (PBL), active seminars and debrief.
The VLE platform (Canvas) will be the focus of self-directed learning.
All sessions will be taught by faculty members and other subject matter experts (SMEs).
Authentic assessment will be at the forefront and will include a critical case review and ‘Grand Round’ (Case-based presentation).
Formative assessment, assessment literacy, and feedback will be embedded throughout the course.
The student will be expected to embrace experiential learning in the workplace and are required to complete the CC3N Enhanced Critical Care Outreach Competencies.
To undertake this short course, you must be: NMC registered- Level 1 Adult Critical Care Outreach Practitioner or equivalent or working in an Intensive Care Unit with the ability to work within a Critical Care Outreach Team in order to fulfil the relevant competencies Evidence of level 6/7 study
There are 15 places available on this course.
For more information please contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-business-administration:
Put yourself on the path to becoming an influential business leader.
Learn how to inspire, support, and motivate a team.
Choose your own modules to specialise in the areas you’re the most passionate about.
The Masters of Business Administration (MBA) is the flagship course within the School of Business and Management.
The course will make you a leader of business, focusing on your professional development in leadership, international business, digital skills, and sustainability.
Our modules have been developed in partnership with employers which makes our course about much more than just what’s in the textbook.
Through inspiring guest speakers, group challenges, regular social events, and opportunities to impact local industries, you’ll become a member of a diverse community of aspiring leaders able to face the challenges of 21st century business.
We have a range of different pathways tailored to your individual circumstances.
Whether it’s the 12-month taught MBA, the 24-month MBA with placement , or the 24-month MBA with Postgraduate Certificate , we have an MBA course to suit you.
You can also opt for one of our specialist pathways, allowing you to focus your MBA on Human Resource Management , Finance , or Marketing .
You’ll study two modules per semester and complete an individual research project.
Each module is fully supported by an online learning environment where you'll access all the materials you need.
You’ll attend weekly seminars where you come together to explore the module topics with fellow aspiring leaders and real industry practitioners.
For each module, you'll submit an assessment to ensure you can progress.
Analyse theoretical approaches to leadership before applying these to strategic and sustainable business issues.
Engage with business leaders to identify and develop the employability skills sought after in the digital and global work environments of the future.
Conduct reflective practice throughout the module, working to develop a deeper understanding of your own leadership style and identify areas for future development as sustainable business leaders.
Explore the unique opportunities and challenges of conducting business internationally as globalisation and the digital revolution have increased global connectedness in business.
Develop innovative and sustainable solutions and strategies for current and emerging international business issues.
Critically analyse approaches to leadership and management in a strategic, international business context to develop diverse stakeholder management acumen and digital business competencies.
Gain an insight into digital enterprises and the nature of sustainable innovation.
Explore issues of culture, communication and leadership within digital enterprises considering the unique opportunities and challenges they face.
Work in conjunction with local and national digital enterprises, and apply your understanding of the underlying theoretical concepts learned to authentic business challenges and develop your digital competencies for future employability.
Engage in the exploration of portfolio management and wealth planning, as well as risk diversification, by focusing on creating a sustainable investment portfolio through examination and analysis of financial data of listed companies.
Examine various financial management concepts such as capital structure, investment appraisal techniques and mergers and takeovers through real-life case studies.
Develop transferable skills needed for roles within financial institutions, stock broking, investment and portfolio management, treasury, and corporate finance departments of companies.
Critically examine a suitable topic by completing a research project into an organisation or industry sector with which you are familiar.
Complete a series of personal competence, digital skills and research methods seminars all designed to support your research project.
Develop a critical understanding of the role and importance of research into sustainable business practice, and by investigating an authentic business issue, you will be better prepared for your return to, or entry into, the world of work, along with an enhanced awareness of your own professional development as a future business leader.
Read more about what this means in our Help and Advice article .
You’ll be primarily based at The Reg Vardy Centre, on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
During your course, you’ll have access to world class facilities, such as our state-of-the-art simulation suite and The Marketing Hub which give you the opportunity to enhance your experience through hands-on activities.
This course is designed to support career acceleration for suitably academically qualified applicants.
All levels of practical work/work experience will be considered including applications from candidates with pre-graduation or limited/no work experience post degree who can display that they'll benefit from a course of this type.
We require a relevant degree or equivalent professional qualifications.
Business graduates from Sunderland have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Merck & Co, Barclays, Nissan, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Adidas.
Graduates from this course have found the MBA accelerated their career trajectory and allowed them to progress into senior and executive level roles more quickly in both local, national, and global businesses.
Many graduates have also chosen to set up their own business.
Following the completion of your MBA course, you can continue your studies by completing an optional Postgraduate Certificate in Digital Marketing and Analytics or Human Resource Management.
This route enables you to develop specialist knowledge in the areas of digital marketing and analysis or in skills in people management and learning and development.
The total duration of the MBA with PgCert is 24 months.
The programme team is very much committed to supporting you on your learning journey.
We provide a robust personal tutoring system setting academic goals and working with you to keep this on track.
Study skills development is a feature of the programme support, for example, honing critical skills and critical writing.
We pride ourselves on Sunderland being a friendly and sociable place to study – many long-lasting friendships and networks are formed within our Sunderland MBA cohorts.
Page last updated:  23 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-pgcert:
Further enhance your specialist skills with this two-year Master of Business Administration with a Postgraduate Certificate in an area of interest.
This is a two-year MBA course with an integrated Postgraduate Certificate (PgCert) in either Human Resource Management or Digital Marketing and Analytics, allowing you to gain specialist knowledge in an area relevant to your interests.
Following completion of the MBA, you'll have the option to undertake a further PgCert in either Digital Marketing and Analytics or Human Resource Management.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, class discussions, case studies, group work, presentations, and applied study.
Your progress will be assessed by a dissertation and assignments, as well as some exams.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this degree requires a higher level of independent reading and research.
Plus, choose from:
Explore sustainable competitive advantage and how marketers are required to understand the dynamic environment to identify long-term objectives and deliver short-term tactical marketing solutions in an increasingly digital and sustainably aware world.
Consider digital marketing in the context of addressing the behaviour and expectations of the contemporary customer in both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) markets, be they local, national, or global.
Build the knowledge and practical skills required to deliver digital marketing in the workplace.
Respond to a real client case study and apply the theories, concepts and learning gained throughout the module to address a specific business challenge.
Please note, the availability of optional modules may be subject to change due to unforeseen circumstances or student demand.
All levels of practical work/work experience will be considered including applications from candidates with pre-graduation or limited/no work experience post degree who can display that they will benefit from a course of this type.
An MBA is a challenging qualification which requires significant dedication.
Employers recognise its worth and the value that an MBA-qualified business leader can bring to their organisation.
Our graduates have gone on to careers in a variety of organisations around the world and many alumni are entrepreneurs who've established their own businesses.
Students have secured placements with companies including Nissan, Caterpillar, Fujitsu, Network Rail, and White Lodging Services, as well as small entrepreneurial firms in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/independent-prescribing-pharmacists:
Attain the ability to prescribe autonomously for any condition within your clinical competence and help provide your patients with improved access to care and medicines.
Experience new professional opportunities and improve your job satisfaction.
Successful students of the course are awarded a Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing.
This General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC)-accredited qualification is required for your annotation as an independent prescriber and is the first step on a truly career-changing pathway.
The course usually takes 12 months to complete, although it can be completed in less time.
You'll attend ten mandatory study days, including assessments, where you'll study therapeutic topics, clinical skills, patient assessment, and much more.
We'll give you the opportunity to develop your awareness, knowledge, and skills for the clinical assessment and physical examination of patients including the main anatomic/therapeutic areas: respiratory, cardiovascular, gastro-intestinal, musculoskeletal, and nervous systems.
You'll have the opportunity to study to achieve the learning outcomes stipulated in the GPhC’s Educational Standards with emphasis on clinical decision-making, patient safety, and the professional and ethical aspects of prescribing practice.
Once qualified, and with your registration appropriately annotated, you'll be able to take on new challenges and opportunities unavailable to non-prescribers.
The course is transformative for your professional development and clinical utility and ultimately enhances your career choices and job satisfaction.
More information is available from the General Pharmaceutical Council .
The content of this course reflects the General Pharmaceutical Council's syllabus for independent prescribing for pharmacists and conforms to the requirements of the Standards for Education and Training for Pharmacist Prescribers .
We offer a ‘blended’ approach to teaching and learning meaning you are offered a mixture of on-campus, live online, pre-recorded, and distance learning materials.
We use a case-based learning strategy, employing case studies as the basis for learning, and utilise a variety of teaching and learning methods to achieve this including lectures, seminars, practical skills development sessions, presentations, self-directed learning, and mentored practice.
These are supported by a comprehensive online learning environment to help you succeed in your studies.
The course runs twice a year, with intakes in October and January.
You'll study either online or at the University for one day a week during the first term with associated independent study, followed by assessments in the form of a multiple choice question exam and a sequential clinical examination (these most commonly occur in the fourth month of the course).
You'll undertake at least 90 hours of supervised practice with a designated prescribing practitioner (DPP) and submit a written portfolio of evidence to complete your studies.
The portfolio can be submitted up to a year after starting the course, but earlier completion is allowed.
Acquire the theoretical and practical skills and knowledge to become a safe and effective Independent Prescriber.
Gain experience with a dedicated in-work mentor to help you develop the competencies required for professional recognition as a prescriber in your own right.
Consolidate and develop your abilities to engage in reflective practice and utilise these skills to enhance patient care and safety by focusing on the fundamental principles of effective consultation and prescribing governance.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex on City Campus, which boasts multi-disciplinary laboratories and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
The University has a purpose-built model pharmacy complete with a consultation suite and optional video recording of your interaction with patients.
In addition, we can accurately simulate hospital-based scenarios in a fully equipped ward environment.
We require applicants to: Be registered with the UK General Pharmaceutical Council or the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland Have appropriate patient-orientated experience in a UK hospital, community or primary care setting following your foundation year as defined by the GPhC’s Standards for Education and Training Hold or be working toward a recognised clinical qualification at postgraduate diploma level or above, or be able to provide an equivalent portfolio of evidence of clinical experience (if you are unable to meet this entry requirement, you should consider applying for MSc Clinical Pharmacy which includes an optional independent prescribing module) Have an identified area of clinical practice for independent prescribing and the agreement of a DPP to supervise your learning in practice Applications should be received by 31 July for October entry and 31 October for January entry.
To apply for this course contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .
Please also download the Designated Prescribing Practitioner (DPP) guide.pdf for your DPP to review.
Applications should be received by 31 July for October entry and 31 October for January entry.
The fee for this course is £1,688.
Please note that we are unable to accept international applications.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/certificate-higher-education-health:
Since being awarded the Armed Forces Gold Covenant , we have worked closely with the Defence Medical Academy to identify service needs for serving military personnel and veterans, and have developed this exciting new course.
Our course has been designed with serving military personnel and veterans in mind and offers the opportunity to build on your existing skills and experience.
We aim to provide you with the additional knowledge and qualification required to progress onto a health-related honours degree.
You will be joining a close-knit, diverse, friendly community and can expect a supportive and engaging learning environment from day one of your studies with us.
Each module within the course has an underpinning healthcare focus utilising your highly valuable military healthcare experience.
Find out more about how we support our Armed Forces transitioning to university life.
You will be taught via engaging and interactive methods.
Lectures, discussions, and tutorials will provide feedback and support.
Each of the modules has an assessment element such as poster design, presentation, exam, and essay.
You will require access to a computer, laptop, or tablet as this course is delivered fully online.
Prepare to study at university level, with a focus on health-related subjects.
Develop key academic skills, like researching, writing, and critical thinking, while building on your existing knowledge and experience.
Using reflective practice, you'll strengthen your confidence and grow the professional and scholarly abilities needed to succeed in Higher Education.
Want to understand the key mental and physical challenges affecting individuals and communities today?
Examine how social factors and health inequalities impact certain groups, including those in local and military communities.
You'll also explore the experiences of service leavers, veterans, and their families, and considers the strategies and policies designed to reduce these inequalities and support wellbeing.
Build your confidence and skills when using maths safely and accurately in a healthcare setting.
You'll explore how numeracy plays a vital role in patient safety, especially when calculating and delivering medication dosages.
Through an interactive e-learning programme and online assessments, you'll develop the core numerical skills needed for nursing and allied health roles, while also understanding how accurate calculations help reduce errors and improve outcomes in patient care.
Ever wondered how health initiatives get off the ground in hospitals, public health organisations, or education settings?
Choose a topic that aligns with your interests or career goals and design your very own health project.
To do so, you'll create an academic poster to present your ideas.
Develop skills in planning, presenting, and communicating ideas.
These are key tools if you want to make an impact in health and social care.
Depending on your qualifications and experience, there may be an opportunity for you to use an Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) or Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) for some modules.
Please contact Terry McDermott-Moses for more information: terry.mcdermott-moses@sunderland.ac.uk .
You'll need internet access to use our Virtual Learning Environment, where you will access specially designed learning materials, e-books, e-journals, relevant websites and multimedia.
We usually require applicants to hold Numeracy and Literacy Level 2.
Profiling is required for students who wish to use an Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) for the Health project module.
If the student is deemed appropriate for APL, they will be required to produce a portfolio of evidence, including experience, qualifications and an essay.
The fee for this course is £5,400 if you are from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
We are unable to accept applications from international students.
For more information, see our Funding for Armed Forces personnel page.
If you are currently serving, or have recently served, in the British Armed Forces and are looking to enhance your education, you could be eligible to receive help with funding your studies:
Service Leavers Scheme
Armed Forces Bereavement Scheme
Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme
The scheme provides financial support to British Armed Forces personnel to support their studies at university.
You will need to apply at least five weeks before the start of your course.
After your application for funding, once you make your application for your course, you will need to mention our Learning Provider Reference number: 1290.
On completion of the course, a Certificate of Higher Education will be awarded.
With this Level 4 Certificate, you will have the opportunity to access a health-related honours degree at the University of Sunderland.
It is also a recognisable qualification, enabling employment with the NHS or other healthcare workforce.
On completion of this course, you may be eligible to apply for the following.
Please note, some courses may require an interview:
For more information on studying this course, contact: Programme Leader terry.mcdermott-moses@sunderland.ac.uk or Senior Lecturer garry.heeson@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  30 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/enhanced-prescribing-health-professionals:
Continue your professional development by working in practice with an assigned practice assessor who is also a registered healthcare professional and experienced prescriber.
Qualify in both independent and supplementary prescribing and choose your level of study.
Prescribing is an area of professional development which is an essential component of specialist and advanced practice for health professionals.
As such, it forms part of career structures and is commissioned by organisations that require prescribing for job roles.
Prescribing requires independent and supplementary prescribing knowledge and skills.
This prescribing short course leads to a qualification in both.
It's a requirement of the Professional Standards and Regulatory Body (PSRB) – either the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) or the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) – that students complete a prescribing module prior to undertaking prescribing in practice.
The structure of this course reflects requirements from practice, i.e.
a one-week block at the beginning and end of the course, and one day per week in between.
Alongside this time at university, NMC-registered students will be expected to undertake a minimum of 78 hours of supervised practice with a suitably qualified and experienced practice assessor (this is 90 hours for HCPC-registered entrants).
Lectures and seminars will ensure learning is underpinned with relevant theoretical knowledge to inform safe and effective decision-making.
Group work, problem-based learning (PBL), interactive discussions, workshops, and case-based analysis of practical experiences will assist you to explore and reflect upon prescribing practice.
Simulation and role-play activities will aid clinical assessment and diagnostic decision-making skills.
Use of the virtual learning environment (VLE) and e-learning will facilitate learning through the use of formative numeracy and short answer assessment tasks and provide links to supporting information sources.
Tutorials, both individual and group-based, will facilitate personal and professional development and provide peer support.
You will work in practice with an assigned practice assessor – a registered healthcare professional and experienced prescriber with suitable equivalent qualifications.
This module is designed to meet the 'Standards for prescribing programmes' as outlined by the NMC (2024) and is underpinned by the principles detailed in the NMC documents 'Standards Framework for Nursing and Midwifery Education' (NMC 2024) and also 'Standards for student supervision and assessment' (NMC 2024).
The competency framework that supports the practice element of this course is the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) 'A competency framework for prescribers' (2021), divided into the following areas:
This course will take place in the Sciences Complex, which contains the Living Lab, an integrated facility, supported with IT connectivity that enables a range of patient journeys and scenarios to be modelled.
To apply for this course: You must be a registered first level nurse, and/or specialist community public health nurse (NMC) Prior to application, you must have been registered with the NMC/HCPC for a minimum of one year You must confirm that you are capable of safe and effective practice at a level of proficiency appropriate to the course to be undertaken and your intended area of prescribing practice in the following areas: Clinical/health assessment Diagnostics/care management Planning and evaluation of care.
Successfully pass a 20-question drug calculations entry test with a mark of 80% or above Have demonstrated successful, relevant study at academic level 6 in the last three years.
In addition, you'll need to have written confirmation from: Your employer to confirm that the necessary governance structures are in place (including clinical support, and access to protected learning time) to enable you to undertake and be suitably supported throughout the course.
If you're self-employed, you'll need to demonstrate that rigorous governance arrangements are in place to support prescribing and medicine management.
A suitably qualified practice assessor and practice supervisor who meets eligibility criteria for supervision of nurse prescribers and who has agreed to provide the required term of supervised practice.
The fee for this course is £1,500.
The employer usually meets the cost – we advise you speak to your workforce development lead before applying.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/diabetes:
Develop your knowledge and skills in managing patients with diabetes mellitus.
Cover essential topics such as consultation skills, diabetes diagnosis, and the fundamentals of diabetic patient management.
Learn from experienced clinical specialists in the field while earning 20 credits at degree level.
The course will cover focused consultation skills and the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus following World Health Organisation (WHO) and National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines.
The course will also explore the fundamental concepts of managing diabetic patients, pharmacological management for diabetes, and complications of diabetes such as retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy.
The course is classroom-based and will be taught on campus over four, full day sessions, delivered across four months.
During this time, you'll be expected to work with a clinical mentor to develop your knowledge and skills further.
Assessment for the course will be at level 6.
This course is delivered at City Campus in Sunderland, which boasts excellent facilities and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
Applicants must be registered healthcare professionals with a previous level 5 or level 6 qualification.
Ideally, you should be working in a clinical setting where your work involves delivering diabetes services.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/advancing-contraceptive-health:
Study a clinically and strategically relevant course in delivering contraceptive services.
Enjoy a quality experience in contemporary facilities.
Earn 20 credits at the same level as our postgraduate degree courses.
This course is taught in our multi-million pound John Dawson Sciences Complex, which features a brand new CPD suite for training health and pharmaceutical professionals, multi-disciplinary science labs, and new facilities for proteomics, drug discovery, pharmacy, and health sciences.
You can be assured of a quality experience in contemporary facilities.
The contact time for this course is five full days over three months.
You will be offered the choice of studying at Level 6 or Level 7, depending on your experience.
When you complete the cours,e you will receive a Certificate to show that you have gained 20 credits at your chosen level.
You may be able to transfer these credits to a diploma or degree course.
The course is delivered by our Clinical Sciences lecturers and a specialist in contraceptive and sexual health.
It's taught across five full days over a three-month period at the University.
Each day uses a variety of teaching and learning methods, including interactive workshops and will focus on a specific topic that you can then consolidate in clinical practice.
Assessments will be an essay consisting of two reflective case logs and an Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) utilising simulated patients in a variety of contraception and sexual health-based consultations.
We now accept applications from registered Nurse Associates, however they will only be eligible to apply for the Undergraduate Certificate in Contraceptive Health Care which is a Level 6.
All applicants do not require a clinical mentor, but spending time with more experienced collegues is still advisable.
Page last updated:  28 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/management-chronic-disease:
This 20-credit Level 7 module will allow you to develop the requisite communication skills, focused assessment and clinical decision-making, and management skills to enable practitioners to manage chronic diseases in a range of clinical settings.
Working at an advanced level of clinical practice, you'll develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions about chronic disease management by discussing, debating, and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery that meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice and have ethical and moral principles embedded throughout.
This module is delivered fully face-to-face at city campus via interactive lectures, simulations, and problem-based learning.
There is a total of 88 hours contact time with additional self-directed study available via the virtual learning environment.
You'll typically be on campus on a Friday where your day will comprise of: 9am – 10:50am Disease-specific assessment, symptom management, monitoring, when to refer, self-management, managing exacerbation/decompensation, palliation 11am – 1pm Disease-specific assessment, symptom management, monitoring, when to refer, self-management, managing exacerbation/decompensation, palliation 2pm – 4pm Practical assessment skills via simulated patient interactions
You'll deconstruct a complex case from practice and critically appraise the care decisions made, the interventions undertaken and identify, debate and analyse the key components of your decision-making, reviewing the outcome of the case to critically appraise and justify the clinical actions taken in a written report.
You'll undertake an OSCE assessment which assesses your ability to complete a focused history and develop a management plan for a complex chronic disease scenario.
You'll then provide your clinical rationale by answering a viva question.
Seminars will take place in the Sciences Complex, which contains the Living Lab, an integrated facility, supported with IT connectivity that enables a range of patient journeys and scenarios to be modelled.
To be eligible for this course, you must be a registered healthcare professional and working in a clinical role which includes the management of chronic disease.
This module can be studied as a standalone CPD option or taken as an optional module as part of the MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner apprenticeship .
If you complete this module as a stand-alone CPD option, you can use this module to further your education and career by completing the MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner apprenticeship .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/learning-disabilities-contemporary-practice:
This 16-week course covers diverse training for delivering effective and equitable patient care.
It will enhance the skills of nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and others.
The short course will cover:
The sessions will run every two weeks.
It will be a mixture of face-to-face sessions, self-directed study via our canvas portal, and some online sessions.
The sessions will run on Wednesdays 9:30am to 4pm on the following dates:
This course will be taught at City Campus, Edinburgh building.
However, there will be a mix of on and off-campus learning.
We require applicants to be at a Band 5 or above for both Level 6 and Level 7.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/neurodiversity-workshop:
Mix lived experience with research and practice knowledge in this interactive workshop.
Gain knowledge of concepts such as neurodiversity, neurodivergent, and neurotypical.
Benefit from a session delivered at your location.
This is an interactive workshop led by two of our neurodivergent academics Dr Lesley Deacon and Zeta Bikova.
Lesley is a qualified social worker and Zeta is a qualified educator, focusing on special educational needs.
The workshop aims to share knowledge of concepts such as neurodiversity, neurodivergent, and neurotypical.
We support practitioners to better understand differences in practice and management styles that can empower all people.
This is achieved through a mix of presentations, research, group tasks, personal testimonies, and application to practice environments.
The workshop takes a positive approach in which difference is valued and normalised following universal design principles.
We come from the perspective that if spaces are neuro-affirmative then everyone can flourish.
This 3-hour workshop can be delivered online or in person and will take place in the North-East or London.
The workshop will be capped at 20 people and consist of presentations, research, group tasks, personal testimonies, and application to practice environments.
Each workshop is interactive, exploring the concept of Neurodiversity concerning the particular workshop focus, e.g.
practice, autistic people, education, and the criminal justice system.
Examples from research and/or lived experience are also shared to demonstrate the application of neurodiversity in real-world environments.
We also share useful resources and potential solutions for applying a positive lens to all working environments.
Capitalising on our different expertise, there are four different types of workshops you can attend:
This is an interactive workshop led by two neurodivergent academics from the University of Sunderland, Dr Lesley Deacon and Ms Zeta Bikova.
Lesley is also a qualified social worker and Zeta is a qualified educator, focusing on special educational needs.
The aim of the workshop is to share knowledge of concepts such as neurodiversity, neurodivergent and neurotypical.
This is achieved through a mix of PowerPoints, research, group tasks, personal testimonies and application to practice environments.
We come from the perspective that if spaces are neuroinclusive then everyone can flourish!
This is an interactive workshop led by Dr Nathan Keates from the University of Sunderland in London.
Nathan is qualified… in Autistic people!
Through their masters degree and PhD.
Nathan is also a qualified educator.
The workshop aims to introduce the foundational knowledge about autistic people and the wider concept of neurodiversity.
This has an ever-growing importance for everybody to understand and expose the myths and misinformation that currently exist.
The workshop will include a presentation, group and/or independent discussion and thinking, video, games and exercises, and reflection.
The workshop offers a neurodivergent-affirming point-of-view in which the experiences of neurodivergent/autistic people are valued and their voices heard.
The workshop is designed to be inclusive, so everyone can learn and develop.
Nathan is a qualified educator.
The workshop aims to inform educators about up-to-date, relevant knowledge of neurodivergent people.
With more discourse on accessible education, and understanding what has been termed additional needs to inclusive pedagogy, the workshop strengthens through challenging practices.
Reflection is central to the workshop design.
The workshop will include a self- and group reflection, presentation, group and/or independent discussion and thinking, video, and games.
The workshop provides a neurodivergent-affirming perspective that values the experiences of neurodivergent individuals, ensuring their voices are heard.
It is designed to be inclusive, allowing everyone to learn and grow.
This is an interactive, two-part workshop led by Dr Helen Williams and Sarah Connelly.
The first part of the workshop will explore the experiences of neurodivergent victims in the criminal justice system.
It will support professionals who work with victims of crime to understand the impact neurodivergence can have on an individual’s ability to engage with a criminal justice system which demands neurotypical communication and behaviour.
This can significantly affect perceptions of credibility and access to justice.
The workshop will use creative methods to make space for reflection and promote accessible and inclusive practice for all victims of crime.
The second part of the workshop will explore the experiences of neurodivergent individuals as they navigate the criminal justice system, with a particular focus on police custody.
Given the overrepresentation of vulnerable adults in the criminal justice system in England and Wales, there is a noticeable increase in the neurodivergence population within this group.
Police custody suites are busy, complex environments where custody sergeants must balance the exercise of authority with their responsibility for safeguarding and identifying vulnerabilities.
This session will address how neurodivergence and vulnerability are framed together, the impact of neurotypical structures and practices, and key considerations for practitioners.
Participants will have the opportunity to discuss current practices and explore future considerations for improving the handling of neurodivergent individuals in police custody.
Capitalising on our different expertise we have created a series of individual Workshops that organisations can purchase.
Neuroinclusive Practice (online or in-person at Sunderland City or St Peter’s Campus or a nearby location) This is an interactive workshop led by two neurodivergent academics from the University of Sunderland, Dr Lesley Deacon and Ms Zeta Bikova.
Introduction to Autistic People and Neurodiversity (online or in-person at the London Campus) This is an interactive workshop led by Dr Nathan Keates from the University of Sunderland in London.
Neurodivergent, Trauma-Informed Education (online or in-person at the London Campus) This is an interactive workshop led by Dr Nathan Keates from the University of Sunderland in London.
Neurodiversity in the Criminal Justice System (in person only at Sunderland City or St Peter’s Campus or a nearby location) This is an interactive, two-part workshop led by Dr Helen Williams and Sarah Connelly.
This workshop is aimed at Local Authorities, particularly for social work/education/community work/health but also open to any organisation that would find the workshop beneficial.
CaPE (Corporate and Professional Education Team) 0191 515 3361 cpd@sunderland.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/education-advanced-clinical-practice:
Develop skills and knowledge in applied education, teaching and learning theories and methodologies, coaching, and critical thinking in clinical practice.
This 20-credit, Level 7 module will allow you to develop skills and knowledge in applied education, evidence-based strategy, teaching and learning theories and methodologies, coaching, mentorship, supervision, and critical thinking in clinical practice.
You'll also develop your advanced practice role with underpinning knowledge and skills in synthesising applied techniques to enhance health literacy and development of a sustainable culture of learning.
This course runs from February to September 2025.
The number of face-to-face taught hours for the course is 14, with 22 directed study hours and 164 independent study hours.
Face-to-face teaching is delivered at City Campus every other week, from February to July, with an in-person assessment in early September.
The assessment will be a presentation delivered to the course tutors assessing all learning outcomes.
You will gain knowledge and skills in the following, in line with the Education pillar of Advanced Clinical Practice:
The course is predominantly taught in a classroom environment in Fleming Building in The John Dawson Sciences Complex.
To be eligible for this course, you must be a registered healthcare professional and working in a clinical, leadership, or managerial role at an advanced level of practice.
This module can also be studied on our MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner (apprenticeship).
For further information on either of these courses, contact ACP@sunderland.ac.uk .
For further information on this course, contact ACP@sunderland.ac.uk .
Applications for this course can be submitted to CaPE at cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/leadership-advanced-clinical-practice:
Apply leadership theories to inform, manage, and develop healthcare services.
Identify service needs, improvements, challenges, and opportunities.
Develop leadership capabilities to improve service and clinical practice.
This 20-credit, Level 7 module will enable you to understand, use, and apply leadership theories to a range of advanced clinical practice roles to inform, lead, manage, and develop healthcare services.
You'll develop leadership competency and capabilities and demonstrate these in the context of your developing advanced practice roles.
You'll acquire skills to articulate the advanced clinical practice leadership role to policymakers, decision‐makers, other healthcare professionals, and the public, enhancing understanding of the advanced practice role and optimising advanced clinical practice leadership capabilities in dynamic and unpredictable settings.
You'll also develop leadership capability to improve service and clinical practice working on an individual, systems, and organisational level and identify service needs, improvements, challenges, and opportunities applying real-life problem-solving skills.
This course runs from February to November 2025.
The number of face-to-face taught hours for the course is 16, with 20 directed study hours and 164 independent study hours.
Face-to-face teaching is delivered at City Campus every other week, from February to July, with a written assessment due in November.
Assessment takes the form of a written assignment submitted online, assessing all course learning outcomes.
You will gain knowledge and skills in the following, in line with the Leadership pillar of Advanced Clinical Practice:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/advanced-clinical-management-skills:
Develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise, and review care decisions by discussing, debating, and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery.
This 20-credit Level 7 module offers you the opportunity to develop your advanced communication, clinical assessment, examination, and clinical decision-making and management skills in your field of practice.
This will be assessed via an Objectively Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE).
Working at an advanced level of clinical practice, you'll develop the ability to critically analyse, synthesise and review care decisions by discussing, debating, and reviewing alternative approaches to care delivery that meet the medico-legal requirements for advanced practice and have ethical and moral principles embedded throughout.
This module is delivered fully face-to-face at the University of Sunderland’s city campus via interactive lectures, simulations, and problem-based learning.
You'll study a variety of topics including history-taking skills , p hysical assessment skills, d iagnostic indicators, c linical decision-making skills, c linical decision making theory, m edico-legal law for advanced practice, and evidence-based advanced practice.
A typical day on campus, usually a Wednesday, comprises of:
Theoretically, you'll deconstruct a complex case from practice and critically appraise the care decisions made, the interventions undertaken and identify, debate, and analyse the key components of your decision-making.
You will then review the outcome of the case to critically appraise and justify the clinical actions you've taken in a written report.
You'll undertake an OSCE assessment which assesses your ability to take a structured history, perform focused examinations, and determine a provisional and differential diagnosis and management plan for a complex scenario.
To be eligible for this role, you must be a registered health care professional who is looking to earn a credential as an Advanced Clinical Practitioner via the NHS England portfolio route.
The employer usually meets these costs, therefore we advise you to speak to your workforce development lead before applying.
Alternatively, this module can be studied on MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner .
For further information on either the advanced clinical management skills module or the MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner apprenticeship, contact ACP@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/facilitating-learning-in-practice:
Gain skills in facilitating learning in a multidisciplinary team.
Explore current approaches to teaching.
Study at level 6 or level 7 depending on your qualifications.
The course covers the facilitation of teaching and learning within the clinical practice setting and is designed for healthcare professionals who are required to teach skills, knowledge, and competencies to members of the multidisciplinary team, or are expecting to undertake such a role.
You'll explore theories which support teaching and learning with clearly defined links to practice settings.
The approaches to teaching in formal and informal settings will be evaluated, equipping you with negotiation and feedback skills as part of your professional development.
You'll also learn about the aspects of supervision and mentorship, encouraging reflective practice.
The course explores current approaches to teaching and learning whilst understanding the role diversity plays in a successful workforce.
You'll examine contemporary theories of education, analysing implications for clinical knowledge and evidence-based practice within the healthcare workforce and professional learning context.
This course is offered at both level 6 and level 7, depending on your qualifications, and will be awarded as one of the following:
The course will be taught on campus on a day release basis, however, there's an expectation that you'll also undertake your own independent studying and some work-based learning to meet the demands of the course.
The duration of the course is 14 weeks in total, with six on-campus teaching days, four directed study days, and four self-directed study days.
Assessment will be a portfolio of evidence to include teaching evidence, resources, and critical reflections and discussions.
This course will delivered at City Campus in Sunderland.
To be eligible to study on this course, you must be a healthcare professional with a role requiring teaching provision.
You must also hold a level 5 diploma (or equivalent) to study at level 6, or an undergraduate (level 6) degree (or equivalent) to study at level 7.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/chd-heart-failure:
Develop the knowledge and skills required to care for patients with coronary heart disease and heart failure.
Learn from highly experienced cardiac specialists.
Study at level 6 or level 7 depending on your skills and experience.
This short course is aimed at healthcare professionals currently working with patients affected by coronary heart disease and heart failure, who are looking to develop their knowledge and skills in this area.
There are two routes available depending on your experience:
You'll build on the required skills to promote holistic, patient-centred care and the knowledge to develop an effective patient management plan.
You'll utilise transferable skills and evidence-based practice for patients with cardiovascular disease, and by the end of the course, you'll have obtained a wider breadth of knowledge in your field.
The course is delivered on campus, with teaching taking place across five days over a time period of five months.
A range of teaching strategies will be used and there will be opportunities for critical discussion with peers, independent working, and guided study, to allow depth of knowledge to be developed.
Assessment will in the form of a written assessment at level 6, and a written assessment plus one day or Viva at level 7.
This course is delivered at City Campus in Sunderland, which boasts excellent facilities and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million-pound investments.
Buildings the course may be taught from include:
We usually require applicants to be healthcare professionals.
You should be working in a clinical setting where your work involves delivering coronary heart disease and heart failure services.
For entry to the level 7 route, you must have already undertaken a level 6 qualification.
You must confirm the availability of your clinical mentor before you join the course.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/ear-conditions:
Develop your knowledge and skills managing patients with conditions involving the ear.
Cover anatomy and physiology of the ear, as well as the pathophysiology of common problems affecting the ear.
The module will cover anatomy and physiology of the ear and the pathophysiology of common problems affecting the ear.
This module will also cover focused consultation skills, the fundamentals involved in managing patients with conditions affecting the ear including management of obstruction with earwax (cerumen) or foreign bodies, otitis externa and otitis media and principles involved in ear irrigation.
Students will be classroom based for the three full day taught sessions and will be expected to work with a clinical mentor in practice to further develop the knowledge and skills learned in the classroom.
The assessment for this module will be a portfolio and reflect reflective study.
This is taught at level 6.
This course is delivered by University of Sunderland Clinical Sciences lecturers and is taught over three full days over a four-month period at the University of Sunderland.
Assessment will be by a portfolio and reflective essay.
You should be working in a clinical setting where your work involves delivering ear conditions services.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/minor-illness-injury:
This 16-week course covers diverse training crucial for delivering effective and equitable patient care.
It will enhance the skills of professionals such as nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and others.
The course includes in-depth explorations of minor injuries and illnesses, including physical examination and diagnostic tools.
Specialised areas will be explored such as MSK assessment and management including fracture assessment and radiology, soft tissue injuries, and wound care, equipping you with hands-on experience in techniques like suturing and splinting.
Critical aspects of care, including burns, respiratory, and gastrointestinal issues are also addressed, ensuring a holistic understanding of common conditions.
You'll also cover ENT issues, skin conditions, and urinary tract infections, providing a comprehensive skill set for managing diverse patient presentations in an unscheduled care setting.
Advanced topics such as eye injuries, neurological emergencies, mental health first aid, and legal and ethical considerations specific to minor injuries and illnesses are also incorporated, emphasising the importance of informed consent, documentation, and reporting.
Practical application is a key focus in this short course, with case studies and interactive sessions allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world scenarios.
Throughout the course, communication skills and professionalism are emphasised, promoting effective collaboration with patients and a comprehensive patient-centred approach to care.
The course concludes with a focus on the management of patients, recognising the need for evidence-based onward care and guidance from the minor injury and illness settings.
Allied Healthcare Professionals at Level 6 or Level 7 will be well-equipped to deliver high-quality, equitable, and patient-centred care in the dynamic field of minor injuries and illnesses.
The course consists of 16 weeks of teaching with one full day per week taught onsite.
There are 12 places available for Level 6, and 12 places available for Level 7.
This course will be taught at the John Dawson Sciences Complex on City Campus.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/management-asthma-copd-adults:
Continue your development as a healthcare professional.
Gain the essential skills to deliver care to those with respiratory conditions.
Build on your knowledge and clinical practice.
This short course will enable qualified healthcare practitioners, working in either a hospital or community setting, to gain the knowledge and assessment skills required to care for patients with common respiratory conditions who present with acute or chronic clinical episodes.
There are three routes available depending on your experience:
The course explores the patient journey from initial diagnosis, through acute episodes of illness, ongoing chronic disease management, and eventually to palliative care.
There will be a focus on holistic wellness in respiratory disease, as well as on the importance of enhancing patients' self-management skills and ability to identify emergencies requiring urgent referral to secondary care services.
The course content will be taught by a team of knowledgeable and experienced staff, and delivery will be flexible depending on requirements.
All sessions will be full days, and one session will be delivered per month for five months.
Working with a clinical mentor in practice isn't required, however, you're expected to work with senior, experienced colleagues to enhance your learning experience and synthesise classroom-based learning with practical clinical application.
This course is delivered via blended learning, with the on-campus elements delivered at City Campus in Sunderland.
You must be a qualified healthcare professional, in either a hospital or community setting, with an interest in respiratory conditions including asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/academic-recognition-cpd:
Identify your individual learning objectives and become an independent learner.
Utilise your own clinical experience to gain academic credit and development at Level 6.
The course enables acknowledgment of CPD through description, contextualisation and rationalisation of learning achievements.
You will be an independent learner and will identify your individual learning objectives with guidance and negotiation through tutorials with the module leader.
This course will enable any healthcare professional to utilise their own clinical experience, to gain academic credit and development at Level 6.
This course will be taught online.
You will participate in a two hour induction session which will include discussion of the module and a library session.
There will also be two tutorials with the programme leader.
The rest of the course is work-based and practice-based learning.
You will be required to complete a portfolio of practice (3000 words) for your assessment.
Applicants will usually have studied at diploma level – evidence of this will need to be provided.
You will need to be a registered health professional – Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) or Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
The fee for this course is £550.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/care-for-the-older-person:
Learn how we age and the issues we face.
Discover some of the common conditions seen in older people and health promotion to support 'wellness'.
Explore cultural bias and personal values.
This short course will cover how we age and the issues we face, including some of the common conditions seen in older people and health promotion to support ‘wellness’.
This course can be completed at both level 6 and level 7.
This course is delivered face-to-face at our city campus.
It will take place across five s essions over ten weeks.
The course can be completed at both an undergraduate and postgraduate level.
You will be assessed through a 3,500 word essay.
This course is aimed at registered health professionals who have studied at Level 5 and above.
The employer usually meets the cost of the course – we advise you to speak to your workforce development lead before applying.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/pharmacy-pre-registration:
Further your skills and develop your undergraduate knowledge alongside undertaking foundation training in practice.
Achieve General Pharmaceutical Council learning outcomes.
Network with fellow trainee pharmacists.
This course helps trainee pharmacists make the most of the foundation training year and prepare for the registration assessment.
We fully understand the pressures of this year and this course will help you develop your full potential by focusing on key elements included within learning outcomes and the registration assessment framework.
We will support your professional development through face-to-face sessions and distance learning on topics across a range of clinical areas including pharmacy law, numeracy and emergency first aid.
We will also prepare you for your registration assessment with the General Pharmaceutical Council, including regular mock assessments throughout the course.
The contact time for this course is ten sessions over ten months, with distance learning activities using our Virtual Learning Environment.
The course does not earn you credits, but it will help prepare you for assessment within your foundation training year.
For further details on how to apply for this course, please contact TPFP@sunderland.ac.uk .
This course is made up of ten study days, of which one of these days is a full, formal mock assessment in May.
The taught elements of this course includes a mixture of directed study and supported supervised study.
There'll be a range of pre-work for each study day which you can complete in your own time, as well as participating in each study day.
Study days are held on campus and cover a range of topics varying on a month-to-month basis.
You'll take part in a mixed approach to teaching, including presentations, case workbooks, case discussions and formative assessments.
You must already hold an MPharm or Overseas Pharmacists’ Assessment Programme (OSPAP) degree completed in the United Kingdom to enrol on this course.
If you are an international student, you must first complete our Overseas Pharmacists’ Assessment Programme (OSPAP) .
For further details on how to apply for Trainee Pharmacist Foundation Programme, please contact TPFP@sunderland.ac.uk .
The fee for this course is £948 (including VAT).
If you are unsure whether you qualify as a UK, EU or international student, find out more in our Help and Advice article.
For further information about this course, please contact cape@sunderland.ac.uk / 0191 515 3361.
Page last updated:  09 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/eap-d-distance-learning:
Improve your English language skills with this online course.
Build on academic skills such as taking notes, contributing to seminars, making presentations, handling reading assignments and writing essays and reports.
Reach the correct level of English for your university course.
This 6-week online course is for people with an IELTS (International English Language Testing System) score of 5.5 or equivalent.
The course will help you improve your English language and academic skills and develop your knowledge of life at university in the UK.
You will build on your existing knowledge of English and develop academic skills such as listening, note-taking, reading and summarising, writing essays and reports, doing research and making presentations.
You'll gain a head start by learning about the University before you start your main course and reach the required level of English to be successfully accepted to the University.
At the end of the course, your English will be at the University of Sunderland equivalent level of an IELTS 6.0 score which is the requirement for most of our courses.
This 6-week, online course is taught via the University's Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas .
You'll go to online sessions, work on tasks in your own time and practise your English in online chatrooms and group projects.
Plus, you'll have weekly tutorial sessions to keep in touch with your lecturer.
When you pass the course, you'll get a Foundation Certificate of Achievement in English for Academic Purposes and have the English language skills to study your chosen course.
You will study one module to develop your English skills for academic study in order to help you be successful on your main programme.
This includes the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing with reference to listening skills practice, note-taking strategies, reading skills practice, vocabulary building, summarising techniques, academic written work to include essays and reports.
As well as research methods, making academic presentations in English, taking part in group discussions and individual tutorials to build confidence with spoken English.
In addition, you will be well prepared for your university programme with orientation sessions to help you use the library and the learning support services here at the University of Sunderland.
You will build your knowledge of the UK and our local area with British Studies lectures as well as develop your lecture study skills.
This course can be studied anywhere in the world that has internet access.
The course is delivered by Canvas - the University's Virtual Learning Environment.
You will use learning and reading packs, e-books, e-journals, relevant websites and multimedia.
You will have full access to our libraries and, as a distance learning student, you will particularly benefit from our web-based ‘Discover’ search tool.
This helps you gain remote access to online journals, articles and e-books – whenever and wherever you happen to be studying.
This course is delivered online so you'll need a computer and internet access to join.
This course is for people who do not speak English as a first language to help you improve your English and be successfully accepted to a main course at the University of Sunderland.
If you are joining a main course starting in September, you are not eligible for this distance learning course and should apply for the on campus EAP course instead.
We welcome applications from those with an IELTS or equivalent score of 5.5 or above with no individual skill score (speaking, listening, reading and writing) lower than 5.
If your level of English is higher than IELTS 5.5 you can study this course and achieve a score 0.5 band higher than your entry score.
If your IELTS or equivalent score is lower than 5.5, you can choose one of these alternative courses to improve your English language skills: IELTS 4.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate Online IELTS 5.0: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate Online If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
IELTS 4.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate Online IELTS 5.0: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate Online If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
The fee for this course is £1,000.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/eap-c-distance-learning:
Build on academic skills such as taking notes, contributing to seminars, making presentations, handling reading assignments and writing essays and reports.
This 10-week online course is for people with an IELTS (International English Language Testing System) score of 5.0 or equivalent.
This 10-week, online course is taught via the University's Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas .
If you are joining a main programme starting in September, you are not eligible for this distance learning course and should apply for the on campus EAP course instead.
We welcome applications from those with an IELTS or equivalent score of 5 or above with no individual skill score (speaking, listening, reading and writing) lower than 4.5.
If your level of English is higher than IELTS 5 you can study this course and achieve a score 1 band higher than your entry score.
However if your IELTS or equivalent score is higher or lower than 5, you can also choose one of these alternative courses to improve your English language skills: IELTS 4.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate Online IELTS 5.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper-Intermediate Online If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
IELTS 4.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate Online IELTS 5.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper-Intermediate Online If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
The fee for this course is £2,000.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/eap-b-distance-learning:
Learn academic skills such as taking notes, speaking in seminars, making presentations, handling reading assignments, and university-level reading.
This 12-week online course is for people with an IELTS (International English Language Testing System) score of 4.5 (or equivalent).
By the end of the course, your English will be the University of Sunderland IELTS equivalent of 6.0, which is what you need to study most of our courses.
This 12-week, online course is taught via the University's Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas .
You will study one module to develop your English skills for academic study in order to help you be successful on your main course.
As well as research methods, making academic presentations in English, taking part in group discussions and individual tutorials to build confidence with spoken English.
In addition, you will be well prepared for your university course with orientation sessions to help you use the library and the learning support services here at the University of Sunderland.
We welcome applications from those with an IELTS or equivalent score of 4.5 or above with no individual skill score (speaking, listening, reading and writing) lower than 4.
If your level of English is higher than IELTS 4.5 you can study this course and achieve a score 1.5 bands higher than your entry score.
If your IELTS or equivalent score is higher than 4.5, you can choose one of these alternative courses to improve your English language skills: IELTS 5.0: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate Online IELTS 5.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper-Intermediate Online If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
IELTS 5.0: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate Online IELTS 5.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper-Intermediate Online If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .
The fee for this course is £3,100.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/english-academic-purposes-d:
Improve your English language skills.
Build on academic skills such as taking notes, contributing to seminars, making presentations, handling reading assignments, and writing essays and reports.
This course will help you improve your English language and academic skills and develop your knowledge of life at university in the UK.
You will build on your existing knowledge of English and develop academic skills such as taking notes, contributing to seminars, making presentations, reading strategies, and writing essays and reports.
This pre-sessional course uses a variety of teaching methods in order to develop your English skills and prepare you effectively for university study in the UK.
You will participate in small group classes, larger group lectures, and small group or individual tutorials enabling you to practise your English with the help from both your teacher and your classmates.
You will receive regular feedback on your work and be well supported to develop your English language to your best level.
There is also a large bank of extracurricular material that you can use to help you during your independent study time, which is available on our Virtual Learning Environment, CANVAS.
There will also be lots of opportunities for you to practise your speaking during the course, as well as group projects which you will take part in, and you will stay in regular contact with your teacher in tutorials and classes.
By the end of the course we expect you to have a level of English that is the University of Sunderland equivalent to an IELTS score of 6.0.
This is the English language requirement for most University of Sunderland courses.
The University of Sunderland’s Language Centre is a dedicated space for language learning and teaching in Wearside View 108 and includes:
Opening times are Monday to Thursday, 11am-1pm and 2-4pm.
For teaching, we also have two Sanako language laboratories, with Sanako Study 1200.
You will have full access to all on campus facilities including the library, computer suites and open access Language Centre.
Joint CAS for EAP and your main programme is available.
If your IELTS or equivalent score is lower than 5.5, you can choose one of these alternative courses to improve your English language skills: IELTS 4.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Pre-Intermediate IELTS 5.0: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/english-academic-purposes-c:
This course will help you improve your English language and academic skills, and develop your knowledge of life at university in the UK.
There is also a large bank of extracurricular material that you can use to help you during your independent study time which is available on our Virtual Learning Environment, CANVAS.
By the end of the course, we expect you to have a level of English that is the University of Sunderland equivalent to an IELTS score of 6.0.
However if your IELTS or equivalent score is higher or lower than 4.5, you can also choose one of these alternative courses to improve your English language skills: IELTS 4.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-Sessional English – Pre-Intermediate IELTS 5.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-Sessional English – Upper-Intermediate If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/english-academic-purposes-b:
If your IELTS or equivalent score is higher or lower than 4.5, you can choose one of these alternative courses to improve your English language skills: IELTS 5.0: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Intermediate IELTS 5.5: English for Academic Purposes: Pre-sessional English – Upper Intermediate If you need any help completing your application, please contact our student support team .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/health-professions-pgce:
Take your career to the next level by building on your health profession knowledge and skills in our state-of-the-art facilities.
The PGCE Health Professions will help you b uild on your experience, knowledge, and teaching skills and take your career to the next level.
You'll develop confidence in delivering learning using various methods and promote learning and teaching in your clinical setting.
The course is ideally suited to those with significant education or teaching responsibility in their role, such as clinical educators.
For available funding opportunities, please contact cape@sunderland.ac.uk .
You will be taught via a mixture of lectures, group-based seminars, and interactive workshop activities.
The course includes applied educational theory, with practical skill development in a range of teaching methods such as inter-professional learning and clinical simulation.
You will be assessed via multiple methods which reflect the underpinning principles of universal design for learning, including essay format, a spoken individual presentation (viva), a written module document and verbal defence.
The course is taught on a part-time basis, every Monday from 9.30am – 3.30pm.
Explore academic practice and gain an overview of learning theories relating to clinical education.
Explore practical classroom teaching and learning approaches including the use of specific methods such as problem-based learning, small group and one-to-one teaching, and the use of role modelling in professional education, while also covering a range of pedagogical approaches.
Identify both why you are taking an approach, as well as having the ability to implement, adapt and evaluate contemporary approaches to health professions education.
Gain an insight into the theory behind the utilisation of signature pedagogies and approaches to learning and teaching such as problem, case or team-based learning, and develop skills and confidence in delivering learning using these methods.
Systems of student support including mentoring, coaching and supervision feature in this module, and participants will be encouraged to explore the use of different systems in different contexts to meet the needs of a diverse student population.
Explore in detail the range of assessments used in the clinical setting including the use of OSCE and other variants, the assessment of skills and competence.
The course will primarily be delivered from City Campus, including our simulation labs in the Fleming Building.
You are expected to have a substantial teaching workload, which should equate to more than 100 hours of direct student/learner contact each year.
We require applicants to be registered healthcare professionals or in a role where they are responsible for the learning of other registered healthcare professionals in their organisation.
The tuition fee for this course is £2,500.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/postgraduate-psychology:
Take an essential first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist.
Gain valuable professional insights into human behaviour.
Develop the same grounding in psychological science as a three-year undergraduate course, but at master's level.
This master's is a conversion course that is suitable for graduates who have not studied psychology as a first degree.
Successful completion provides the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership by the British Psychological Society.
The course is offered full-time over one year or part-time over two or three years.
At the end of the course, you could choose to undertake further study that is required to become a chartered psychologist.
Alternatively, your understanding of psychology will help you in sectors such as advertising, social work, public services, general management, and human resources.
We use various teaching and learning methods, including lectures, seminars, workshops, and tutorials.
Our thriving research programme in health behaviours and mental health supports the research aspects of the course.
Our tutors’ specialisms include social psychology and evolutionary psychology.
Assessment methods are a combination of coursework, including practical reports, research proposals, and presentations.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this master's requires a higher level of independent working.
If you choose to study this course full-time, you'll be on campus two days a week, Mondays and Tuesdays, from approximately 9am/9:30am until 4pm/4:30pm.
If you study part-time, you'll be on campus one day per week.
In year one, this will be a Monday, and in year two, this will be a Tuesday, same timings.
If you study this course part-time, you can choose to study it over two or three years.
This module presents a wide selection of interesting, detailed, and prominent psychological discoveries from topic areas such as child development to personality, brain functioning to interpersonal relationships.
In the process you will learn how psychologists work in academic and applied settings, and how the discoveries made about the human mind and behaviour can inform both.
You will be given the tools to critically assess psychological claims to see how well they hold up once you have examined the evidence behind them, including the development of skills needed to understand and evaluate original research articles and claims made in psychology.
You'll become familiar with the foundations of biological psychology including the anatomy and function of the human brain and nervous system, psychophysiological processes, the endocrine system, behavioural genetics, and neuroscience measurement techniques, alongside the comparative and evolutionary models of human behaviour.
During this module you will apply your knowledge to a variety of applied topics within biological psychology, ensuring you have an insight into how biological psychology can be applied to real-world scenarios relevant to your field of study.
Develop an understanding of social psychology as the scientific study of human behaviour that focuses on the interplay between individuals and groups.
You will learn about key theories, concepts, and empirical research in social psychology.
This will enable you to gain insights into thoughts, feelings, and behaviour of individuals within social contexts.
Everybody is different, but how do we describe and measure that?
This module focuses on how psychologists define and quantify individual differences and disorders in personality, where those differences might originate, and how those differences affect our personal and working lives.
We will consider the implications of being introverted or sociable, cautious or impulsive, neurotic or carefree, kind or psychotic, and what personality traits might be useful to predict behaviour, success, or wellbeing in applied contexts such as in organisational, health, educational, forensic, sports, or clinical psychology.
Develop an understanding of how humans grow and change across the lifespan, from conception to old age.
You will examine the biological, cognitive, social, and emotional development of individuals as they progress through different stages of life.
Through this module, you will learn how individuals acquire knowledge, perceptual abilities, memory, language, and higher-order thinking skills.
You will also explore the influence of relationships, social interactions, and societal factors on identity, self-concept, and emotional well-being.
Through engaging with research and case studies, you will enhance your ability to critically evaluate developmental theory and apply it to real-life situations.
As you hurry about your everyday life, trying to get your shopping done, your assignments finished, your chores done, hoping for some time for a good chat with your friends, reading a novel or a comic, catching up on your favourite series, exploring the local sights, or maybe playing a game or dancing along to some music, you will be using all your cognitive capacities.
This module will uncover the amazing and complex skills that underlie these everyday activities and explore how cognition differs in animals, in people with acquired brain injuries, and in those who have extraordinary skills, such as polyglots and mnemonists.
This module will take you through a journey of quantitative methodologies and their application within psychology.
You will acquire essential skills for designing and conducting practical research.
Additionally, you will master a range of descriptive and inferential analysis techniques, including hands-on experience with relevant statistical software.
Proficiency in professionally reporting psychological research findings is a key outcome.
Beyond analytical and digital competencies, this module prepares you for potential quantitative research projects or post-study applications as well as a host of other essential transferrable skills.
Explore a selection of qualitative research paradigms and learn how their associated techniques are used across psychology and allied disciplines.
Develop a nuanced understanding of the underlying philosophy of such paradigms.
Use your knowledge to design, and carry out your own research, then learn how to present and evaluate your own research.
This is the final module in your programme, where you put together all the psychological skills and knowledge that you have been learning in previous modules, to design and carry out an independent research project under supervision.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a second class honours degree in any subject.
This course is designed to be a conversion course for those who do not already hold the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society.
The course is therefore not suitable if you have already achieved an honours degree in psychology.
The course is offered full-time over one year, or you can choose to study part-time over two or three years.
Please note, however, that the three-year route is not eligible for a government student loan.
This conversion course is a way to move into a sector that offers both satisfying careers and excellent salary potential.
On completion of this course you will be equipped to apply for the further postgraduate training that is required to become a chartered psychologist.
There are nine types of psychology in which it is possible to become chartered: clinical, educational, forensic, occupational, counselling, sport and exercise and health psychology, as well as neuropsychology and teaching/researching in psychology.
Equally, the course prepares you for employment in a broad range of sectors.
The insights, rigour and methodology of psychology are valued in roles in management, advertising, marketing, human resources, the police force, the prison service, social care, health services and teaching.
Page last updated:  03 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/animal-management:
Study a variety of animal-related topics.
Learn about the fundamentals of animal husbandry and health, introduction to animal biological sciences, conservation, and academic skill development.
Work with animals in a range of contexts from farm life to wildlife.
This course aims to provide learners with a robust foundation of knowledge to prepare them for employment within this diverse and varied sector.
Learners will study a variety of animal-related topics including the fundamentals of animal husbandry and health, introduction to animal biological sciences, conservation and academic skill development.
These topics will be studied using a combination of theory and practical sessions delivered by industry experts and designed to contextualise and develop professional skills within the animal management sector.
The course provides the underpinning theoretical knowledge to inform practical activity and will develop practical skills in animal husbandry, collection management and supervisory skills, alongside the relevant academic and research skills expected for further study at level 6 and for graduate employment.
Practical activities will consist of unique opportunities to work with a range of animal taxa across relevant industries (zoos, animal centres and farms), where they will gain hands-on experience with industry experts ranging from animal carers to conservationists amongst others.
Integrated within this course are work placements in real animal management establishments, providing learners with experience to further develop their skills to meet industry standards, and aims to help learners stand out to future employers.
This Foundation Degree is taught at East Durham College’s Houghall Campus in Durham.
You can then 'top-up' to a full honours degree at East Durham College too.
Teaching methods include practical sessions at the college and in industry settings, lectures, discussions, case studies and workshops.
Students will also be encouraged to develop independent study skills.
Assessment methods include evaluation of work experience, reports, presentations and practical tests.
Intended modules include:
Please contact East Durham College for more information about facilities and location.
East Durham College Peterlee Campus Willerby Grove Peterlee SR8 2RN
This course is taught at Houghall Campus at East Durham College.
Please contact them for more information: 0191 518 2000 .
Applicants without formal qualifications may qualify through substantial, relevant work-based experience.
You may be asked to attend an interview and present a portfolio of evidence.
The annual fee for this course is £8,750 if you are from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
Please note this course is not available to international students.
There will be around £100 additional costs to purchase uniforms and safety equipment which students will be able to purchase directly from the college.
There is an opportunity to join the college on an optional Project Wild Gambia Trip in year 2 and this would be approximately £1,250 (excluding flights) which is subject to change each year.
Potential employers include zoos, the RSPCA, overseas wildlife conservation organisations, recreation services, the Police, local authorities, and schools and colleges.
Career opportunities that should become available to those completing FdSc Animal Management would include:
East Durham College is committed to developing the estate at Houghall having already spent £15m on previous phases aligned to strategic priorities.
Facilities at Houghall Campus include:
Integrated within this course are work placements in real animal management establishments, providing you with experience to further develop your skills to meet industry standards, helping you to stand out to future employers.
You'll have contact with relevant organisations such as Northumberland County Zoo to gain essential practical and academic skills, network with industry professionals and develop opportunities for voluntary and paid work in the sector.
Applicants may be asked to attend an interview and present a portfolio of evidence.
Any queries about the FdSc Animal Management course should be made directly to the course team by contacting either:
Rebecca Sweet (Higher Education Course Leader) MSc, BSc (Hons) rebecca.sweet@eastdurham.ac.uk
James Mulvany (Programme Area Lead Animal Higher Education) BSc (Hons) PGCE FHEA james.mulvany@eastdurham.ac.uk
More details can be found on the East Durham College website .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/ospap-overseas-pharmacist:
Join the only University in the North of England to offer an Overseas Pharmacist Assessment Programme (OSPAP) that is accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council.
Register and apply for roles as a practising pharmacist in the UK.
The course is designed for qualified pharmacists outside the European Economic Area (EEA) or who hold an EEA pharmacist qualification which is not a relevant qualification (other than a UK-recognised pharmacist qualification) who are looking to become registered pharmacists in the UK.
It's one of a small number of courses that are accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
Completing the OSPAP postgraduate diploma allows for entry to the next stages of registering as a pharmacist in the UK, and in addition, you can also apply to undertake a master's research project.
The content of this course reflects the accreditation requirements of the GPhC.
You can choose to study this course as a Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip) or a master's (MSc).
If you choose to study the master's level, you'll also undertake a research project.
This will be an original piece of work in which you'll demonstrate both theoretical and practical knowledge.
You can apply with or without your GPhC adjudication, however, you'll only be offered an interview once this has been received.
Your application will be held pending until we have your GPhC Adjudication letter.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, online learning packages, tutorials, and seminars.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this masters requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment methods include examinations, practical assessments as well as assignments throughout the year.
This is a full-time course and classes take place on campus Monday to Friday.
The main teaching takes place over two terms of approximately 12 weeks from September to December and January to April.
If you are doing the MSc module, this will run from June to September after the two diploma modules are completed.
This module will equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to practise legally and safely as a pharmacist in the UK.
Areas covered in this module include legal and regulatory aspects of pharmacy practice; the dispensing process; the public health role of the pharmacist; and pharmaceutical calculations.
This module will extend your ability to respond appropriately to clinical situations.
You will cover core therapeutic areas including epidemiology, aetiology, pathogenesis, pathophysiology, clinical presentation and evidence-based treatment strategies.
You will also gain experience of clinical case scenarios, ‘expert’ patients, patient simulators and practical sessions where you will be taught physical examination techniques.
This module covers a wide range of topics for conducting scientific research from conceptualising research to statistical analysis.
You will gain both a theoretical and practical framework for conducting pharmaceutical practice research.
You are expected to apply this knowledge in the project report where you will focus on a particular area of a hospital, community, or general practice.
There are two routes for this course – a Postgraduate Diploma route in which you must achieve 120 credits from 'Pharmacy, Law, Ethics and Practice' and 'Clinical Therapeutics', and a Masters route in which you must achieve 180 credits.
Sunderland's exceptional facilities include state-of-the-art equipment for pharmaceutics, medicinal chemistry, and pharmacology.
To apply for this course, you must first apply to the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) and pass their adjudication process, please see the GPhC website for full details on how to apply.
After adjudication, the University will be informed of successful candidates.
You can then apply by completing our online application form and attaching several required documents.
We require applicants to hold a minimum 2:2 undergraduate degree in Pharmacy or equivalent.
As part of your application, we will also need the following documentary evidence: 1.
A copy of your GPhC-approved adjudication letter.
Proof of English proficiency (please refer to the GPhC’s guidance on how they assess evidence of English language skills).
Interview You'll only be offered an interview once we have received your GPhC adjudication letter.
Interviews will take place from November.
We have a limited number of interview slots available so you'll be allocated one as soon as possible once you are eligible.
Please make all attempts to attend this.
If you cannot, please notify us immediately.
Once you’ve been interviewed, if successful you'll be sent an updated offer letter removing the condition for interview within 10 working days.
If you have any outstanding additional conditions at that point, please send these to us as soon as possible to complete your application and secure your place.
Please contact us at internationaladmissions@sunderland.ac.uk if you have any questions about your outstanding conditions.
If you have passed your interview, your place is only secured once all conditions of your offer are met.
If you are unsuccessful, we will withdraw your offer.
Once you have met all conditions, if applicable, and you require a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) then we will start to issue these from the end of March which is the earliest point we are able to.
Once you have this, you will be able to apply for your visa.
We recommend you apply for that as soon as possible in case of any delays when making your visa application.
Once you have that, the University will be in touch around the induction and arrival process.
You'll only be offered an interview once we have received your GPhC adjudication letter.
The time it takes to complete a PgDip is approximately two-thirds of the time it takes to complete an MSc.
For this reason, the fees for the PgDip are two-thirds of the cost of the MSc.
This is one of the few courses in the UK that allow pharmacists from other countries to qualify for practising in the UK.
Currently there is virtually no unemployment of qualified pharmacists.
On completing the OSPAP postgraduate diploma you can enter foundation training, this is the next stage of your training process.
You must successfully complete a 52-week foundation training position and pass the GPhC registration assessment before being allowed to apply to join the register and practise as a pharmacist in the UK.
You'll be working in pharmacies on high streets or in large stores.
You'll dispense prescriptions, deal with minor ailments, advise on the use of medicines, and liaise with other health professionals.
You'll be purchasing, dispensing, quality testing, and supply of medicines used in hospitals.
You'll be working in GP surgeries, either as an employee of the Practice or the Primary Care Trust.
Roles include Medicines Management Pharmacists, who are responsible for prescribing budgets and the development of prescribing directives.
You'll be working in hospitals to supply medicines, manage clinics, provide drug information, and prescribe medicines.
You'll be involved with research and development, quality assurance, and product registration.
The application process and interviews will all take place before you start your OSPAP course.
Once the application deadline has passed, late applications will not be accepted, therefore if you wish to be considered for a foundation training position starting immediately after the OSPAP course you must complete this process before starting at the University.
Applications usually open in May/June before you start your OSPAP course.
Pharmacy trade magazines such as the Pharmaceutical Journal and Chemist and Druggist also advertise foundation training places.
Only one application will be required to apply for all programmes advertised and you will be able to preference both hospital and community programmes.
All English and Welsh hospital preregistration pharmacist training programmes will be recruited to via Oriel plus a large number of community pharmacies have joined the scheme.
For more information please visit Oriel and Health Education England .
For applications to Scotland visit NHS Education for Scotland .
Page last updated:  03 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-sports-management:
The MBA (Sports Management) route allows you to tailor your studies and prepare for a career in sporting events or sports venue management.
Whether you're a keen sports enthusiast looking to study business in a way that interests you, or someone looking to become a leader in the sports industry, our specialist route will give you the skills to succeed.
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) is the flagship course within the School of Business and Management.
Our modules have been developed in partnership with employers, making our course about much more than just what’s in the textbook.
The MBA (Sports Management) is part of the South Shields FC International Academy programme .
You'll submit an assessment for each module to ensure you can progress.
Assessments are coursework-based and take a variety of forms.
From written reports, to academic posters, each assignment will test your ability to apply your learning in the classroom to real-world problems.
The course culminates with a research project, which is a single, major piece of work on a topic of your choosing.
Sports and sporting events play a vital role in modern society by shaping urban regeneration, improving the health and well-being of communities, and contributing billions of pounds to the economy.
From grassroots sports to global mega-events, the sports industry has become a complex web of organisations that touches the lives of everyone and operates both for and not for profit.
This module aims to equip you with the industry knowledge and modern management approaches needed to operate successfully in the multifaceted business of sport.
All levels of practical work/work experience will be considered including applications from candidates with pre-graduation or limited/no work experience post-degree who can display that they'll benefit from a course of this type.
We require an honours degree of a minimum 2:2 or above from a recognised Higher Education institution or equivalent from a recognised overseas institution.
As the premier qualification in business, an MBA will prepare you for senior management in any type of organisation.
Our graduates are now working in a variety of industries from licensed retail to manufacturing.
Many students also go on to open their own businesses.
An MBA in Sports Management will help you prepare for a management career in sporting events or sports venue management, as well as senior roles in various related areas.
If you're on the South Shields FC International Academy programme, you'll train with South Shields FC Academy alongside your studies.
The Faculty of Business, Law and Tourism also offers international mobility opportunities and you'll have the opportunity, visa permitting, to take advantage of our extensive international links for study abroad, or shorter opportunities such as summer programmes.
We also run a guest speaker series, inviting senior business leaders from around the world to share their experiences with students, such as Mike Clasper, Chairman of SSP Group PLC and BIOSS consulting.
Page last updated:  21 March 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-top-up:
If you are applying for this course for October 2025, click apply now.
Course starts: 13 October 2025 Apply now
This Master of Business Administration (MBA) Top-Up is for people who already hold a Postgraduate Diploma in Management Studies or an equivalent postgraduate qualification.
Teaching and learning methods include lectures, seminars, class discussions, case studies, group work, presentations, and applied study.
Assessment is mainly through the dissertation and assignments, as well as exams in some subjects.
For the 90-credit Top-Up, you will study one of the 30-credit MBA core modules and complete your 60-credit MBA Research Project.
The module you study will depend on when you start and your entry qualifications.
All levels of practical/work experience will be considered including applications from graduates with limited/no work experience post their master’s degree who can display they'll benefit from a course of this type.
This course converts a standard master’s level qualification to an MBA.
Therefore, a relevant postgraduate or equivalent professional qualification is a requirement to apply for this course.
The course is an investment in yourself that can lead to higher salary, promotion opportunities, greater employability, and flexibility in an evolving job market.
Business graduates from Sunderland have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Merck & Co, Barclays, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterCoopers, and Adidas.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-supply-chain-management:
Fast-track your career in business leadership.
Develop a specialism in supply chain management.
The Masters of Business Administration (MBA) is the flagship programme within the School of Business and Management.
It will make you a business leader, focusing on your professional development in leadership, international business, digital skills, and sustainability.
Through inspiring guest speakers, group challenges, regular social events, and opportunities to impact local industries, you’ll become a member of a diverse community of aspiring leaders able to face the challenges of 21st-century business.
This Masters of Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on supply chain management.
Our aim is to accelerate your promotion to well-paid leadership positions, either in supply management or in any other function.
You will submit an assessment for each module to ensure you can progress.
Assessments are coursework based and take a variety of forms.
The programme culminates with a research project, which is a single, major piece of work on a topic of your choosing.
Please note, this specialist MBA route is available for October starts only.
See further information on the generic MBA route .
October intake:
March intake:
You will gain specialist knowledge of innovation including:
Your knowledge will be supported by designated module options.
Choose the format of your final project:
All levels of practical work/work experience will be considered including applications from candidates with pre-graduation or limited/no work experience post degree who can display that they will benefit from a programme of this type.
Relevant degree or equivalent professional qualifications.
As the premier qualification in Business, an MBA will prepare you for senior management in any type of organisation.
Our graduates are now working in everything from licensed retail to manufacturing.
The MBA (Supply Chain Management) prepares students for a career in general management or specialist pathways in roles focused on logistics and supplies.
The Faculty also offers international mobility opportunities for any student who wants one.
Visa permitting, students can take advantage of our extensive international links for study abroad, or shorter opportunities such as summer programmes.
The Faculty runs a guest speaker series, inviting senior business leaders from around the world to share their experiences with students.
Previous guest speakers include Mike Clasper, Chairman of SSP Group Plc and BIOSS consulting, and business owner Alice Rowan Hall.
MBA graduates have gone on to successful careers in a wide range of organisations, including Nissan, Nexus, and the NHS.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-marketing:
Fast track your career in business leadership.
Develop a specialism in marketing.
Your progress will be assessed with the dissertation and assignments.
Business graduates from Sunderland have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Merck & Co, Barclays, Nissan, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterCoopers, and Adidas.
Our Employability and Enterprise Hub will support you with your new and exciting ideas.
Whether you want to start a freelance or self-employed career, set up a company or have a business idea to drive social impact, we have the tailored support to get you started!
You can expect:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-finance:
Develop a specialism in finance.
This Master of Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on finance, allowing you to specialise in the financial aspects of senior management.
The course prepares you for senior roles that have major financial responsibility.
Our aim is to accelerate your progress towards well-paid positions of leadership.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this master's course requires a higher level of independent reading and research.
See further information on the generic MBA route.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-hr-management:
Develop a specialism in human resource management.
This Master of Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on human resource management.
It'll prepare you for senior roles that have major responsibility and our aim is to accelerate your progress towards well-paid positions of leadership.
The aim of the module is to understand and analyse the main HR interventions which take place during the employment relationship from vacancy to termination and steps between.
It will provide you with a sound knowledge and critical understanding of the full employment cycle set within the historical context and enable analysis of the contemporary changing nature of this.
The module is designed for both knowledge acquisition, understanding and application of practices in order to develop/enhance HR skills and behaviours.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-sustainability:
Develop a specialism in sustainability.
As one of the biggest challenges facing organisations in the 21 st century, future industry leaders need a comprehensive understanding of how sustainability impacts business.
Through inspiring guest speakers, group challenges, regular social events, and opportunities to impact local industries, you’ll become a member of a diverse community of aspiring leaders.
Through critical environmental policy analysis, you'll learn to develop solutions to everyday business challenges and explore how to incorporate environmental strategies into critical business decision-making.
You’ll also attend weekly seminars where students come together to explore the module topics with fellow aspiring leaders and real industry practitioners.
Assessments are coursework-based and take a variety of forms, from written reports to academic posters.
Each assignment will test your ability to apply your learning in the classroom to real-world problems.
All levels of practical work/work experience will be considered, including applications from candidates with pre-graduation or limited/no work experience post degree who can display that they'll benefit from a course of this type.
An honours degree of a minimum 2:2 or above from a recognised Higher Education institution or equivalent from a recognised overseas institution, or equivalent professional qualifications.
An MBA is one of the most respected qualifications in business.
It's ideal for professionals looking to take the next step into management and senior leadership and it can help you accelerate your career or start your own business as an entrepreneur.
The MBA Sustainability route prepares you for a career in general management or specialist pathways in roles that are focused on environmental policy or strategies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-finance-management:
Apply up-to-date theories and knowledge to current situations.
Graduate with the tools and knowledge to tackle real-world issues.
This MSc is a specialised master's, which provides in-depth knowledge of key finance and management concepts, offering a powerful boost to your future career progression.
During the course, we encourage collaborative working through Peer Action Learning Sets.
As a member of a Learning Set, you'll share practical and academic experiences and reflect critically on case studies, debates, and problems.
By the end of the course, you’ll have the intellectual tools and knowledge to tackle real-world issues within the financial sector or within financial departments of organisations.
Successful completion of this course also provides exemptions for 11 exam papers from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).
Our aim is to enhance your success in challenging management roles that carry above-average responsibility and salaries.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, class discussions, case studies, group work, presentations, and applied study.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this master's degree requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment methods include assignments, reports, presentations, and peer- and self-assessment.
To apply for this course, you'll need a 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent, in a business/finance related discipline.
We'll also consider relevant experience in this field.
Employers recognise its worth and the value that an MSc-qualified graduate can bring to their organisation.
Today’s top managers are expected to have a strong grasp of the numbers that are at the heart of an organisation’s survival, and our course provides academic knowledge and specific training, blending financial know-how with valuable management skills.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-human-resource-management:
Expand your expertise in recruiting and retaining talent.
Develop your leadership and management skills.
Progress your career in human resources.
This 12-month MSc Human Resource Management will allow you to gain specialist knowledge in an area relevant to your interests.
You'll study a range of HR topics, such as developing human resources and professional practice, talent management and resourcing for sustainable performance, organisational development, digital learning practices, employer relations, and developing research practitioners.
When you successfully complete the course, you'll have fulfilled the requirements for professional membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD).
After completing MSc Human Resource Management, you will have the option to study a Postgraduate Certificate focusing on management, digital marketing, or finance and management.
This will extend your studies from 12 months to 16 months.
Teaching methods include a mixture of online and on-campus lectures, case studies, workshops, and computer-based learning.
Your progress will be assessed through individual and group assignments, business reports, presentations, case study analysis, portfolios of work, time-constrained activities, and the master's reflective project.
We're able to accommodate part-time study on this course, so please get in touch to find out more about this.
Develop a range of skills which are pivotal to successful management practice and to effective leadership, including decision-making, the management of information (both manual and digital), team-working and interpersonal skills.
By the end of this module, you'll be able to analyse personal development techniques, critically evaluate yourself and your professional skills and regulate your own personal actions and ethical behaviours in the relationships process.
Learn about talent management in a changing digital global environment and high performing organisational global strategies with people modules.
By the end of this module, you’ll be able to analyse the role and influence of the people management profession as well as managing sustainable performance.
Uncover the changing employment relationship perspectives and the nature of work in the digitally enabled workplace.
By the end of this module, you'll be able to apply best practice to effectively negotiate in issues such as collective bargaining to enable conflict resolution to sustain the employment relationship.
You'll also be able synthesise roles and functions of different stakeholders in controlling and digitally managing the employment relationship.
Explore a range of personal and organisational learning styles as well as academic models.
By the end of this module, you'll be able to design a bespoke learning intervention with digital aspects.
You’ll also be able to undertake a leaning needs analysis where you will identify specific learning needs with an organisation.
Explore how to become a digitally competent research practitioner and select and review academic literature including secondary data.
By the end of this module, you’ll be able to build and assemble sustainable solutions for a people practice issue for an employer case study.
As well as reflect on research design for a people practice issue and professional identity approaches in being and becoming an ethical researching practitioner.
Optional PGCert modules:
Conduct reflective practice throughout the module, working to develop a deeper understanding of your leadership style and identify areas for future development as sustainable business leaders.
Respond to a real client case study and apply the theories, concepts, and learning gained throughout the module to address a specific business challenge.
Examine various financial management concepts such as capital structure, investment appraisal techniques, and mergers and takeovers through real-life case studies.
Identify the key characteristics of a financial system, the advantage of using a financial system in lending and borrowing, asymmetric information, moral hazard and adverse selection, market efficiency and real economy, the international monetary system and the need for international financial regulation.
Discover the sources of financial data, statistical and graphical methods of financial data analysis, financial data analysis using SPSS/ and R software, applied work.
Read more about what this means in our Help and Advice article .
To apply for this course, you'll need a 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) and if you achieve at least a 40% pass mark in all CIPD-related areas of this degree, you'll have fulfilled part of the requirements for professional membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD).
As a member of the CIPD, you'll have access to additional HR research, conferences, training, and development.
Business graduates have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Merck & Co, Barclays, Nissan, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterCoopers, and Adidas.
If you already have a plan for your career, these events are an excellent way to start building a network of business contacts

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/digital-marketing-data-analytics:
Study employer-led modules.
Focus on your personal development in key areas of Business Data Analytics and Social Media.
Engage with real world practice.
The course aims to introduce you to contemporary marketing theory and practice, emphasising business-based data analysis as central to marketing practice today to provide a credible technical background in Digital Marketing.
Teaching and learning methods include lectures, seminars and group work which will encourage you to develop intellectual and cognitive skills.
This includes a project, led by research-active academic staff, linking theory and practice.
You will learn about the latest research in the fields of digital marketing and analysis; the emphasis is on understanding research findings, rather than the research process.
You will be engaged in locating, collecting, referencing, critiquing, applying evidence, challenging assumptions, questioning and interpreting contemporary research articles, conference papers and case studies.
Depending on the modules studied, you will be assessed via a range of methods including, reports, practical exercises, individual coursework, discussion papers and research plans.
Attainment of the Certificate and/or Diploma is on successful achievement of the following credits attributed to the modules of study:
All modules are at postgraduate level (level 7 in the UK’s national scheme).
Focus on the strategic dimension of marketing which is a key component of long-term corporate strategy.
Learn what enabled organisations to meet customer needs and support the customer journey in a more optimal and efficient way than competitors.
Explore sustainable competitive advantage and how marketers are required to understand the dynamic environment to identify long-term objectives and deliver short term tactical marketing solutions in an increasingly digital and sustainably aware world.
You still study the same modules as the Postgraduate Certificate plus:
Understand social media theories/applications and digital research.
Consider the evolution and range of social media platforms including convergence and hybrid media.
Learn key concepts and models in social media strategy such as consumer engagement, customer experience, word of mouth (e-WOM) and pervasiveness, use of augmented reality and VR in social media.
Review the wide range of metrics used and their relative strengths, weaknesses and validity.
Examine the use of analytics within and across different platforms.
Undertake a social media audit and videography project to ensure that theory and practice are linked in an action learning approach.
Consider international issues such as accessibility due to infrastructure, political or economic issues, and legal and cultural issues.
Focus on ecommerce and selling online on third-party marketplaces such as Amazon, and eBay.
Consider the evolution and range of ecommerce platforms including pure-play businesses and hybrid sales models.
Review a wide range of metrics and analytics and assess their relative strengths, weaknesses, and validity.
Examine the use of metrics and analytics within and across different platforms, review ecommerce dashboards, and assess their advantages and disadvantages.
We usually expect applicants to hold a 2:2 degree.
Those with extensive business experience may also be considered.
Please contact us to discuss further.
The Postgraduate Certificate can be studied over seven months part-time or four months full-time.
The Postgraduate Diploma can be studied over 16 months part-time or seven months full-time.
PgDip
As the course links directly to the changing skills requirements of employers, you’ll be ready to step into senior roles in the marketing or computing sectors such as Digital Marketing Manager, Marketing Analytics Manager, or Head of Data Analysis when you graduate.
Some of the companies which employ our graduates include: Microsoft, IBM, Nike, Adidas, P&G, Lloyds TSB, Marriott Hotels, and the NHS.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/management-studies:
Focus on your personal development in key areas of management and leadership.
Progress onto an MBA.
The Certificate and Diploma in Management Studies has been developed to provide you with a critical understanding of strategic management and provide a pathway to achievement of an MBA.
Study at your own pace and choose the full-time or part-time route.
You will study essential functional business elements and you will develop an understanding of the cross-functional nature of organisations and the collaborative nature of organisational decision making.
You will develop key competencies in management through a varied programme of lectures and applied learning through seminars, workshops and corporate engagement.
Your progress will be assessed through a range of methods which include individual and group assignments, business reports, presentations, case study analysis, portfolios of work, time-constrained activities and project work
As you will study modules offered on the first two stages of the MBA course, the Certificate and Diploma qualifications provide a pathway to the MBA, should you wish to progress and achieve the Masters in Business Administration following completion of the Diploma level.
To achieve the Postgraduate Certificate in Management Studies, you will study 60 credits.
To achieve the Postgraduate Diploma Management Studies, you will study 120 credits.
Achievement of the MBA is 180 credits.
This will culminate in a major piece of independent work such as a work-based project or dissertation.
Students studying for the Postgraduate Certificate take 60 credits.
Students studying for the Postgraduate Diploma take 120 credits.
The exact modules you take will depend on when you start your programme.
You will study the same modules as the Postgraduate Diploma plus:
We welcome applications from a range of academic and professional backgrounds.
Please contact us to ensure that your qualifications and experience meet the entry requirements.
The Postgraduate Certificate can be studied over seven months part-time or four months full-time.
The Postgraduate Diploma can be studied over 16 months part-time or seven months full-time.
If you are an employer and interested in a bespoke delivery of this course for your employees, please contact CaPE on 0191 515 3361.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/human-resource-management:
Focus on your personal development in key areas of people management and learning and development.
Progress onto an MSc in Human Resource Management.
The Certificate and Diploma in Human Resource Management, level 7 stand-alone courses, have been designed to develop relevant and essential knowledge and skills in people management and learning and development, and are a route into professional membership of the CIPD.
You'll focus on problem-solving ability and linking theory to real-world challenges.
As part of this, you'll visit UK companies and learn from guest speakers who share their practical business experience.
HR practitioners work with our academic team to deliver events and workshops that will help prepare you to become a part of the HRM professional community.
The networks you develop will become invaluable to you when you graduate and embark on your career in a senior role in human resource management.
Attainment of the Certificate and/or Diploma in Human Resource Management is on successful achievement of the following credits attributed to the modules of study:
The stand-alone courses provide a pathway to achievement of an MSc HRM (180 credits)
Throughout the course, we encourage you to develop a strong sense of self-awareness and of your own strengths and weaknesses as managers and colleagues.
You'll be working on the development of skills to improve and develop a range of definable skills that are pivotal to successful management practice and effective leadership in your future.
These include thinking and decision-making skills, the management of financial information, a range of team working and interpersonal skills, and others associated with developing personal effectiveness and credibility at work.
You'll develop key postgraduate study and research skills including critical reflection on theory and practice from an ethical and professional standpoint.
We also include two special skills development weeks to augment the work you'll be doing within each module.
Overall, you'll be required to consider and reflect on your professional development to establish this as the foundation of a lifetime practice in your future as a business “savvy” human resources and people development professional.
Your progress will be assessed through a range of methods which include individual and group assignments, business reports, presentations, case study analysis, portfolios of work, time-constrained activities, and project work.
Our Human Resource Management postgraduates now work at senior HR manager level in a number of organisations, including Caterpillar, BT and Nissan.
Page last updated:  20 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/professional-advocate-programme:
This 10-week course will support registered Allied Health Care Professionals at Level 6 or Level 7 to critically analyse the role of the Professional Advocate (PA) by gaining the skills and knowledge to lead and deliver quality improvements for the NHS.
The course is specifically a 20-credit level 7 module, relevant to all Allied Health Care Professionals who hold a registration.
The course will draw upon A-EQUIP (Advocating and Educating for Quality Improvement) model of professional nursing leadership and restorative clinical supervision.
The module content reflects the requirements of the RCN PNA Standards for Education and Training Programmes and modules, and in turn, supports the NHS England programme of capacity building and support for the PNA role in practice.
The content requirements cover:
You'll be supported to meet the standards for facilitating clinical supervision using a restorative approach, enabling you to undertake personal action for quality improvement, monitor, evaluate, control quality, and promote the education and development of staff using restorative, normative, and formative approaches.
During this 10-week course, you will gain the skills and knowledge to lead and deliver quality improvements in response to the ever-changing landscape of the NHS and facilitate restorative clinical supervision for your colleagues and teams.
You will study online, engage in weekly lectures, and use a combination of directed and self-directed study within 10 weeks.
There are two assessment methods: a portfolio, and a presentation and professional discussion on a quality improvement initiative of your choice.
You will complete self-directed study and build your portfolio.
Assessments are to be completed four weeks following the end of the module.
There are two cohorts:
Cohort 1: 6 May – one day per week for 10 weeks.
2 – 2.5 hours of face-to-face online lecture followed by 5 hours of self-directed and directed study.
Cohort 2: 7 October – one day per week for 10 weeks.
This distance-learning course can be studied from anywhere.
You'll need good internet access to use our Virtual Learning Environment, where you will access specially designed learning materials, e-books, e-journals, relevant websites, and multimedia.
This level 7 postgraduate certificate, worth 20 credits, is for registered allied health professionals on part one of the register who can demonstrate recent level 6 or 7 study.
This does not include nursing associate roles.
All applicants must also complete two modules prior to starting the course via the elearning for healthcare hub .
You'll be required to send verification that you've completed these modules when you submit your application.
The fee for this course is £834.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/professional-nurse-advocate-programme:
This masterclass is an opportunity for Professional Nurse Advocates and Professional Advocates to come together and share their knowledge, expertise, and experiences.
Not only will this masterclass support CPD, but it will also provide updates on Restorative Clinical Supervision and career conversations.
Additionally, there will be an opportunity to discuss the next steps to progressing the role and understand the skills necessary when writing for publication.
This one-day masterclass will be structured as follows:
This is subject to change.
This masterclass will be taught at Hope Street Xchange on our City Campus.
All applicants must be a qualified PNA or PA.
This fee is £125, your employer may be able to meet these costs - we advise you to speak to your workforce development lead before applying.
If you are wishing to explore your options, please contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/practice-education:
Prepare and professionally develop excellent social work practice educators.
Apply and explore subjects in relation to your own practice and experiences as a practice educator.
Help to create a community whose members continue to support each other while they are working with students on placement.
This course will prepare registered social workers for a role as a Practice Educator for pre-qualifying social work students.
The PEPS underpin the learning on the course and articulate the required activities, skills and values that make up the practice education role.
Practice Education is an important area of career development for experienced social workers and demonstrates that social workers are practicing at the experienced social work level of the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF).
Teaching dates for Stage 1 are 9 October 2025, 6 November 2025, 4 December 2025, and 8 January 2026.
Teaching dates for Stage 2 are 13 November 2025, 11 December 2025, 8 January 2026, and 5 February 2026.
The structure of the course reflects the requirements of the PEPS and is timed to provide support around the planned student placement blocks.
The teaching dates are spread out over a four-month period (one per month), which allows for the consolidation of knowledge and independent work.
Alongside the time in University, you are expected to undertake self-directed learning and have a student on placement who you are directly responsible for assessing.
Teaching methods include lectures, group discussions/seminars, experiential exercises, skills development, student research, and presentation and analysis of video and audio material.
Assessment methods include a Portfolio of Evidence from practice and a 2000-word critical essay.
Between teaching sessions, you will be working with your students and applying your learning to the process of the placement.
You will be offered a group tutorial before assignment submission.
Tutorials address assessment issues, learning needs and strategies, the development of skills in managing the social work student's placement, further reading and preparation of the portfolio.
You will also be expected to attend briefing sessions held at the University regarding student placement.
This module will prepare experienced, registered social workers for a role as a practice educator.
It will enable students on the programme to demonstrate that they are working to relevant professional educational standards within explicit ethical codes.
The module will enable professionals to develop their knowledge and skills in relation to the teaching and assessment of learners in social work professional practice.
This will include a critical evaluation of key theoretical concepts underpinning learning in practice.
A broad range of teaching strategies will be explored to allow professionals to enhance learning and practice in the practice environment.
Exploration of the impact of relationships on decision-making and assessment will be a key consideration throughout the module.
Successful completion of this module is equivalent to Stage 1 of the PEPS, enabling you to independently supervise, teach, and assess a pre-qualifying student on their first social work placement.
This module will build on the learning from Practice Education Stage 1 by focusing on extending your knowledge of the Practice Educator role.
Reflection on practice experience will be a key part of the module and will enable students to identify the most appropriate focus for their future development when acting in the role.
This will include critical reflection on the context of practice education and the impact it has when undertaking the role.
A range of teaching strategies will be used to allow professionals to enhance learning and practice in the practice environment and to develop their skills in using research to inform practice.
Successful completion of this module is equivalent to Stage 2 of the PEPS, enabling you to independently supervise, teach, and assess pre-qualifying students at both first and final placement level.
Teaching will be split over Reg Vardy Centre and David Goldman Informatics Centre at Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
Applicants are required to: Be a social worker registered with Social Work England Have at least two years practice experience as a social worker You must also have an allocated Practice Educator Assessor (who must be qualified at Stage 2 or equivalent) and must take a student on placement during the current academic year.
This is usually a student studying at University of Sunderland but this is not compulsory.
You must also have an allocated Practice Educator Assessor (who must be qualified at Stage 2 or equivalent) and must take a student on placement during the current academic year.
Fees are £750 for each stage of the course (£1,500 in total).
On successful completion of this course, you can go on to accumulate further credits and achieve a Postgraduate Diploma or master's qualification.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/integrated-foundation-year/ug-integrated-community-youth-work:
Transform the lives of vulnerable communities.
Empower disadvantaged young people to achieve their potential.
Qualify for an incredibly satisfying career where you'll be changing lives every day.
The BA (Hons) Community and Youth Work degree will prepare you for a successful career in working with young people and in communities across a variety of settings.
Our recently updated youth work course offers you the opportunity to develop your ability to work with communities and young people (both theoretically and via extensive practice) and study the knowledge, skills and values of youth work and community development in order to graduate with a professional JNC qualification in Youth Work alongside your degree.
Just like the practice of community development and youth work, this course has been designed in a creative way and offers much more than lectures and writing essays, by going beyond the theoretical.
You'll learn how to understand the problems faced by young people and communities and how to change situations and realities.
The curriculum focuses on achieving social justice and celebrating the assets that are abundant in communities and societies, particularly within those communities that have been disadvantaged.
The curriculum offers you a holistic learning experience which has professional practice and employability built in.
If you're ready to make a positive difference in the world, the team are ready to hear from you.
During your studying, some of your learning will take place in the classroom, learning from each other and reading.
However, community and youth work is a vocation, and it’s important to learn from real work-based experience as well as from academic study.
For this reason, work placements are an integral part of the Community and Youth Work degree.
By the time you graduate, you will have spent at least 800 hours in professional practice, within a minimum of two local community and youth work organisations.
This means your learning can evolve in surprising places, such as around a pool table, on a walk, in a community café, or in a multi-agency meeting.
If you’re already working in a community and youth work setting, then you may be able to take a placement at your workplace, as long as the work is relevant and there are adequate supervision arrangements in place.
You’ll also need to complete at least one placement in a setting which is not your workplace, to ensure that you get the maximum benefit from your placement experience.
Our teaching style is true to the collaborative, empowering and reflective nature of community and youth work.
You will be assessed through essays, group work, presentations, reports and reflective pieces; assessment methods are clearly linked to the skills needed in practice.
Throughout your degree, you will have one-toone support from a designated lecturer who will support your progress from Fresher’s week to graduation.
Explore your own personal, social, cultural and political development through a process of reflection and engaged dialogue.
Examine influencing factors on young people's personal and social identity development in context.
Problematise the complex notion of 'youth' and explore a biographical approach to 'youth' transitions.
Explore social theories and examine the concepts of society and their relationship with community and youth work practice.
Gain an understanding of the role of power and the influence of class, race and gender in society.
Undertake your own community study to identify how sociological theory can explain social life.
Develop an understanding of the key principles of informal education and their application to current work with young people and communities in a variety of settings.
Link your experience of professional practice to a theoretical framework and develop practical skills in fostering professional relationships.
Consider how informal education can make a contribution to addressing inequality issues in working with young people and communities.
Gain an understanding of the academic skills needed for university and the basic skills required for the professional practice of Community and Youth Work.
Learn about research methods, acquire essential study skills and explore your own and others' professional boundaries.
Develop self-awareness regarding effective one to one interactions.
Undertake a work placement throughout the year in a local community and/or youth project.
Learn all the things you can't learn within a classroom and use your placement experience to explore, examine and develop your skills and knowledge.
Undertake a second placement module, allowing you the flexibility to work with a different organisation if you do not wish to, or are unable, to continue with your current one.
Explore the three central themes necessary for the development of critical professional practice.
Critically reflect on strategies for implementing equal opportunities and user participation through an empowering educational process.
Engage in critical dialogue and identify the practical relevance of theory to ethical youth work practice.
Gain a critical understanding of the major political ideologies underpinning the policy context in the UK.
Examine social policies relevant to working with young people and have the opportunity to locate professional practice.
Explore how policies are operationalised and consider their impact on inequalities.
Explore different aspects of management theory, organisational structure and culture, and their relevance to working with young people and communities.
Examine the practical aspects of social management in a climate of change and learn how to apply these to the central principles of community and youth work practice.
Develop strategies and skills for effective community participation and supporting change within organisations.
Undertake this reflective opportunity to apply the essential theories of group work to the everyday practice of Community and Youth Work.
Undertake a work placement within a local Community or Youth Work setting.
Demonstrate your ability to take responsibility for an area of practice in order to develop skills in leadership, planning and evaluation.
Equip yourself with the knowledge, values and skills needed to be a competent professional and an empowering supervisor of staff and volunteers within a Community and Youth Work setting.
Examine the current emphasis on developing social enterprises to deliver services in the public sector.
Explore the ways in which management theory has influenced the development of services in the public and voluntary sector.
Develop and apply business and entrepreneurial skills to prepare yourself for professional opportunities after graduating.
Gain the ability to apply principles and values linked to equality, diversity and empowerment to practice.
Gain an understanding of critical education theory and its contribution to promoting social justice within community based settings.
Focus on the wider educational aspects of working with young people and learn about the contribution that critical education can make to the empowerment of communities.
Identify and plan focused educational interventions within a variety of professional contexts.
Investigate the importance of the equal opportunities project in relation to Community and Youth Work practice and study equality, diversity and social justice within this context.
Undertake an examination of equal opportunity codes of practice, an exploration of strategies to promote equality, diversity and social justice within an anti-discriminatory framework for practice, and an examination of the role of the professional practitioner within this process.
Build on your understanding of the use of research in professional practice gained throughout the course by choosing an area of interest to undertake a research project.
Develop your ability to review literature and build research skills and knowledge.
Understand the principles and processes of social research and explore issues of power, values and ethics, and how these issues affect research design and practice.
Learn how to organise data, analyse information and present findings.
Find out more about community and youth work
To find out more about what community and youth work involves, read our article , or read more about what you can do with a Social Science degree .
An important part of our Community and Youth Work course is the work-based experience you'll gain from your placements.
By the time you graduate, you'll have spent at least 800 hours in professional practice to enhance your training.
As well as exposing you to a range of experiences and helping you understand the realities of community and youth work, placements are an excellent way of establishing professional contacts for your career.
You'll also have the opportunity to engage with the community development and youth work sector via guest lectures and speakers.
The University of Sunderland’s Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) regularly hosts visiting speakers and it can be an excellent way to learn from the real-life experience of people who already have a strong track record in social policy.
CASS is the centre for applied social science research at the University and you may find opportunities to collaborate with the academic team – particularly in areas relating to children, young people and families.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/teacher:
Gain invaluable 'on the job' experience while achieving a PGCE qualification and Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Graduate with a set of highly-valuable and transferable skills such as work-based research, planning, communication, teamwork and collaboration.
Gain professional recognition and develop the essential knowledge and skills needed to be an effective and outstanding teacher.
It's aimed at anyone who currently works in, or plans to work in, primary or secondary school education.
Teacher apprentices can be employed in a variety of settings including academy schools and maintained schools.
The apprenticeship is designed to develop professional teaching and learning knowledge.
It'll progress your planning, designing and delivery skills and help you become a highly-reflective practitioner.
Experienced academics with a wealth of experience in education will support you to engage with teaching and learning theories and practice, helping you to explore how to implement this in your own delivery.
You'll investigate the techniques involved in the design, development, delivery, assessment and evaluation of learning.
As well as your 'on-the-job' apprenticeship training, you'll have access to university-taught sessions (online/on-campus) one day a week in blocks during non-assessed weeks, coupled with self-directed study.
This apprenticeship is delivered using a blended learning approach incorporating lectures, workshops, e-learning, a research project and self-directed study.
Your teaching practice is school-based and conducted in the school setting that you currently work in, and one other school setting.
Meetings with your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) and your school mentor will support you and review your progress.
Assessment methods include a written assignment and presentation, e-portfolios of practical evidence, and formally observed teaching observations in the workplace.
Develop purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge, taught both in university sessions and in practical experiences in educational settings.
Further develop an understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher.
Build on the experiences undertaken in the Emerging Professional Practice module, and continue to gain an understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher, allowing you to put this into practice.
Explore the subject areas taught within the Early Years Foundation Stage and the primary national curriculum.
Structure and undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your professional development based on a resource for use in school.
Engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue through a process of action research.
Develop both general and specific knowledge and skills, which will vary according to your chosen area of study.
Identify and develop an understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
Collate a portfolio of evidence to support your development of subject-specific knowledge and create an action plan outlining proposed actions to improve this, reflecting on your success.
Continue to identify, refine, and develop an understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
You'll be taught at the David Goldman Building on the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s, a modern and vibrant campus with a riverside view.
You must be able to secure a school who is willing to support you to meet the requirements of the apprenticeship, and the requirements for teaching practice set by the Department for Education.
You should also be willing to develop your personal IT skills in line with the role.
You will need a 2:2 (or above) honours degree from a UK Higher Education institution or an equivalent qualification and be deemed suitable to train to teach by the School of Education at the University of Sunderland.
For secondary, you must hold Maths and English GCSE at a minimum of Grade C or numerical grade 4 to 9 (or equivalent).
For primary, you will also require Science GCSE at grade C or above (or equivalent).
We will only accept equivalencies from equivalencytesting.com .
In addition to academic qualifications, you must also: have an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check complete a medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
If English is not your first language, you will also need International English Language Testing System (IELTS) at a score of 6.5, with at least 6.5 in writing, and no section below 6.0.
This apprenticeship will offer a PGCE qualification, Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) and 60 master's level credits which can be used to accredit prior learning (APL) to a full master's in the future.
Page last updated:  16 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/specialist-community-practitioner-district-nursing:
Specialise in community district nursing practice.
Learn how to use evidence-based physical and clinical assessments to formulate accurate diagnosis and make safe and informed prescribing decisions.
Gain the skills required to respond to complex health needs in district nursing practice.
The course equips you with the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to meet the occupational District Nurse standards (Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education 2023) and the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) professional standards for Community Specialist Practitioner in District Nursing (2023).
The course prepares you to work collaboratively with individuals, family, carers, groups and communities within a multi-professional and multiagency care environment to support co-constructed health and care outcomes.
Leadership and change management skills prepare you to lead a team and ensure quality evidence-based approaches in the delivery of district nursing services.
This programme promotes consideration of the multiple perspectives and influences which shape healthcare.
Each of the modules has a specialist focus and you are supported to utilise the evidence and information available to make informed sound judgements involved in planning, improving and advancing district nursing services.
You'll undertake this apprenticeship with your employer, a local provider of community health services (NHS Trust).
It involves an 18-month (78-week) programme which includes a minimum of 20% off-the-job, university-based learning.
Successful completion of this apprenticeship will allow you to record the qualifications of:
A variety of approaches to teaching and learning will be used to enable you to achieve the learning outcomes.
These include on-campus teaching, online e-learning, seminars, and group work, as well as learning within your workplace.
The assessments are designed to allow for transferability to practice and applicability to the role of District Nurse.
Studying at Level 7 allows you to take ownership of your learning, with modules based on evolving content, and you're able to further investigate the topics pertinent to your patient demographic and the communities in which you work.
Your learning within the workplace will be supported by using the Practice Assessment Document.
This will act as a guide to ensure your development is following the standards that represent the skills, knowledge, and attributes that all community nurses with specialist community qualifications must demonstrate.
This form of assessment will not only support you as you work through the key milestones in practice, but also act as a sustainable method of learning that's relevant and authentic to your practice.
You'll also receive assessments such as OSCE, business case projects, viva, service improvement plans, and assessment in practice.
These come with regular ongoing feedback from your tutors and supervisors.
Patient and carer participation is an important part of the course, with service user feedback a requirement of learning and progression in practice.
Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants are an essential part of the education delivery to ensure that service user perspectives are integrated into theory and practice.
In this module, you'll explore the advancement of district nursing practice on a local and national scale, considering the impact of epidemiology on the remit of services across the nation.
It will prepare you for the demands of an expanding scope of practice and provides the knowledge required to offer high-quality care in the community setting.
It will also prepare you to operate autonomously, managing advanced care whilst overseeing caseloads and teams, necessitating expertise in case management and the application of theory in high pressure situations.
You'll work to ensure accessibility of care to marginalised communities through a holistic approach that addresses the needs of individuals, families, and communities.
This module will explore how district nurses are increasingly responsible for leading the care of patients with increasing awareness in diverse community settings.
You'll learn to understand the balance of patient care with leadership responsibilities and how this plays a crucial role in maintaining and enhancing the quality of community nursing services.
As community service demands increase, district nurses must adeptly manage change within services and workforce needs to ensure high-quality care for all service users.
Using a systems approach, this module will allow you to develop your ability to take a system specific history and complete the relevant physical examinations, utilising diagnostic indicators to enhance safe clinical management plans relevant to your role and area of practice.
Working at an advanced level of clinical practice, you'll develop the ability to critically appraise contemporary sources of evidence to inform clinical management.
You'll also learn how to critically analyse and review care decisions by discussing alternative approaches to care delivery which meet the requirements for advanced practice.
Throughout the module, you'll consider, discuss, and debate the ethical, legal, and moral dilemmas faced when working at advanced practice level.
Undertaking a prescribing module prior to prescribing in practice is a requirement of the Professional Standards and Regulatory Body, the Nursing and Midwifery Council, and the Health and Care Professions Council.
This module will equip you with the independent and supplementary knowledge and skills required in prescribing, preparing you in your respective field to become a safe and effective prescribing practitioner.
Apprentices will learn in the workplace and online with some attendance on campus.
This will mean that apprentices may buy some study materials of their own, but will have learning resources, uniforms and clinical equipment provided by the employer in the workplace.
There will be no additional costs to apprentices.
As an apprentice, you must hold current NMC registration as a Registered Nurse (Adult) with post-registration experience of at least six months and be employed by a local provider of community health services (NHS Trust) with the contractual support of their employer to undertake the 18-month (78-week) apprenticeship programme followed by an End Point Assessment period of three months.
The apprenticeship requires 590 hours of learning in practice.
During ‘off-the-job’ learning in the workplace, you must have access to the support and oversight of a Practice Supervisor, a Practice Assessor, and an assigned Academic Assessor who have appropriate experience in district nursing.
As this apprenticeship is Level 7, apprentices must be ready to study at Level 7 and hold an honours degree of 2:2 or above in a first degree or have significant, relevant, and recent Level 6 study.
The funding band is £14,000.
The fee for this apprenticeship will be covered by an apprenticeship levy through your employer.
For a discussion around your specific requirements, please call us on 0191 515 3361 or email apprenticeships@sunderland.ac.uk .
This course will equip you with the required skills and knowledge to address the complex health needs of patients you'll care for as a district nurse.
Page last updated:  28 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-iqts:
PGCE iQTS - Primary Education
Applications currently close on Friday 5th September 2025.
Course starts: 01 September 2025 Apply now
PGCE iQTS - Secondary Education
Applications currently close on Friday 5th September.
This is a new initiative from the DfE and will lead automatically to QTS (Qualified Teacher Status) which will expand your career prospects and opportunities.
PGCE iQTS at the University of Sunderland is an internationally-recognised course that leads to Qualified Teacher Status in England and Wales.
This is recognised as an international gold standard for teaching and learning across the world.
The PGCE iQTS course blends applied teaching theory and practice in two taught modules and two teaching practice and theory modules of 120 days including a second school placement experience.
It has been developed so that it can be delivered to primary ‘homeroom’ teachers (all subjects.
This must include planning, delivery and evaluation of all core subjects as well as opportunities to plan, deliver and evaluate a range of foundation subjects) and secondary subject specialist teachers.
It is a 36-week full-time course, completed in one academic year, which must be undertaken in an international setting.
It is the responsibility of trainees to secure an appropriate school placement prior to commencement of the course.
Please note, for employed teachers, this may be the setting in which you are employed providing this meets the placement requirements.
Trainees are required to complete 10 days in a second school experience if they are not teaching in two different schools (time is allocated at the end of the academic year or trainees can complete this over the course of the academic year in single days or a block).
The second school experience does not need to be in the same age phase or a teaching placement and trainees do not have to teach lessons and can observe).
A virtual (online) second school experience is available for trainees who are unable to attend an experience in-person.
Two of the modules are research-based and at master's level, preparing you for further postgraduate study which will qualify you for progression to Stage 2 of our MA International Education or MA Education , both available as distance learning courses.
The PGCE iQTS course is split into two semesters and has four core modules.
There are two theory and practice of teaching modules and two master’s modules, which include research methods.
All trainees have the option to study the following age ranges:
We encourage all secondary trainees to teach across Key Stages 3, 4, and where possible, 5.
Within the academic modules, there is the opportunity to explore and develop themes that relate to age, phase and subject.
On successful completion, the certificate awarded states PGCE iQTS Primary or PGCE iQTS Secondary – it does not include any age range or subject.
Any reference or supporting letter provided by the University will make it clear in which phase of education you did your training, the curriculum you taught and subjects taught.
QTS will be awarded in your specific phase.
We use a wide variety of teaching methods with tasks including required reading, directed activities and self-assessments.
There are online discussion forums where trainees are invited to debate current issues relevant to the module content and, if you live close to other students on the course, we encourage you to form a study group.
The teaching experience is work-based and conducted entirely in a school that you have secured a placement at, or are currently working at.
This is supported by an in-school mentor (identified by the trainee) and university staff.
We assess both the theoretical and practical elements of the course.
Assessment is through written assignments, a profile of evidence of Teachers' Standards and observed teaching.
This module will give you the opportunity to begin to develop purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge content taught in both University sessions and in practical sessions in education settings.
You'll also start to gain an understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher.
Building on the Emerging Professional Practice module, you'll further develop and consolidate your understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher, allowing you to put this into practice.
This module will develop your understanding of the content of subject areas taught within the early years foundation stage and the primary national curriculum, including religious education.
You'll collate a portfolio of evidence to support your development of subject specific knowledge and create an action plan outlining proposed actions to improve this knowledge, as well as reflect on your success.
You'll also identify, refine, and develop your understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
In this module, you'll continue to explore the content of subject areas taught within the early years foundation stage and the primary national curriculum.
You'll have the opportunity to structure and undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your professional development, based around a resource for use in school, encouraging you to engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue.
You'll develop both general and specific knowledge and skills, tailored to your chosen area of study.
You'll also continue to identify and develop an understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
This module will allow you to reflect on pedagogical approaches by linking theory to practice in a reflective journal and present on your developed understanding of professional learning.
In this module, you'll undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your subject specialism and professional development, and engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue.
You'll develop both general and subject specific knowledge and skills to enhance your ability to transfer learning to further study and the workplace.
Learn more about distance learning
Here's why you should study a postgraduate degree
This distance learning course can be studied from anywhere in the world.
When completing your application, you'll need the consent of your school and a suitable mentor.
The University of Sunderland will need to approve the school and designated mentor.
Successful admission will be determined by your potential to teach assessed using both your application and, if successful at application stage, an interview process.
To be accepted onto the course, you'll need: Education requirements A bachelor’s degree or equivalent from a UK or non-UK university.
This doesn't have to be in a curriculum subject.
You must check the individual teacher registration requirements for the country where you wish to teach.
The University uses ENIC to assess the level of your qualifications if from a non-UK university.
To have achieved a standard equivalent to grade 4 in GCSE mathematics To have achieved a standard equivalent to grade 4 in a GCSE science subject (biology, chemistry, or physics) if teaching children aged 5 to 11 (equivalent to an English primary school) Any previous school experience isn't a requirement for successful admission to the PGCE iQTS course.
Please note, for those not currently working as an employed teacher, you'll be responsible for arranging your own placement, both the main teaching experience blocks, and the second school experience.
For those without a first degree studied in the medium of English, Academic in person IELTS is required, achieved within the last two years.
(A minimum Academic IELTS band score of 6.5, with 6.5 in writing, and no less than 6 in Reading and Speaking and Listening).
You'll also need to submit a strong personal statement as part of your application which will be crucial in how your application is assessed.
When completing your personal statement, please consider the following areas: What made you want to be a teacher?
What character and personality traits will you bring to the teaching profession?
What skills and abilities will you bring to the teaching profession?
What's your own philosophy for teaching and learning?
Essentially, this is a portrait of you as a teacher, a self-reflective statement of your beliefs about the teaching and learning process, and, where appropriate, how you enact or plan to enact these beliefs in the professional school environment.
Your response in the personal statement will be individual to you and reflect and embrace the diversity of your background, the richness of your experiences, and what you'll bring to the teaching profession.
School requirements To be able to satisfy the practicum and mentor requirements, trainees are required to find a placement school (if not already employed as a practising teacher) and second school placement experience that'll provide a teaching experience for a total of 120 days.
Please note that teaching in Language Centres, Learning Centres, or similar cannot be used to complete this course; teaching must take place in an international school, state school, or similar that follows a recognised curriculum.
This course requires teaching in either a primary or secondary school.
If you wish to teach in early years (kindergarten), you'll need to apply for PGCE Early Years Teaching (DL) .
It's a requirement of the course that all teaching placement hours use English as the language of instruction to deliver whole-class teaching (not small groups, interventions, or one-to-one support).
Please note, the 10 days required for the second school experience is not in addition to the mandated 120 days and can be deducted from the total requirement.
Trainees can only be made a conditional offer with a placement and mentor in place and you'll need to provide details of your placement/s and mentor before you can formally take up an offer and begin the course The placement must provide a suitably qualified mentor with a minimum of two years' experience and a teaching qualification When completing your application, you'll need the consent of your school and a suitable mentor.
Mentor requirements Your mentor needs to be someone who has experience of teaching and schools but not necessarily of mentoring.
The mentor is expected to have completed a teacher training course themselves and have at least two years of post-qualification experience.
If they've already mentored other trainees elsewhere in the world, that would be an advantage, but comprehensive training, support and guidance is provided for mentors by University academics who value the relationship of trainee, mentor and academic.
The requirements of a mentor include: Initiating regular observations, getting to know the trainee's circumstances and concerns, etc.
Providing friendly professional support and helping with any problems raised by the trainee Introducing the trainee to key staff in the school so that they can benefit from help from a range of colleagues Offering guidance with the preparation of lessons and teaching materials Regularly observing the trainee’s teaching (once per week) and providing constructive feedback Regularly meeting with the trainee to discuss progress and set targets Discussing the trainee’s progress with other staff and providing feedback where necessary Discussing, and if practicable, sharing teaching materials with the trainee Discussing the construction of assessment strategies and lesson evaluations with the trainee Listening actively, asking open and appropriate questions Making suggestions without being prescriptive Preparing interim and final reports on the trainee’s teaching Assisting in the evaluation of the trainee’s evidence portfolio against the teaching standards Adherence to the University of Sunderland mentoring approach Mentoring would normally cover approximately 1.5 hours per week.
Trainee requirements As part of your online application, you'll need to agree to the online trainee agreement.
As part of this agreement, you'll be asked to provide email addresses for two referees, your host school(s) head teacher, and mentor.
They'll be contacted for further information and to provide their consent.
Please note, all forms must be completed and submitted before being offered a place on the course.
Safeguarding and health requirements: Police checks are to be undertaken by trainees in their country of domicile.
In addition, for those trainees who've ever lived or worked in the UK, you must apply for an International Child Protection Certificate (ICPC) .
If you've never been to the UK, you don't need to apply for an ICPC.
To comply with safer recruitment practice, the partner school is required to complete a reference which includes local safeguarding and identity checks.
These could include in-person ID checks and local police checks.
If you meet the criteria after submitting your application, you'll be invited for an online interview with the course staff.
PGCE iQTS (Distance Learning) FAQs .
Your mentor needs to be someone who has experience of teaching and schools but not necessarily of mentoring.
Mentoring would normally cover approximately 1.5 hours per week.
As part of your online application, you'll need to agree to the online trainee agreement.
Police checks are to be undertaken by trainees in their country of domicile.
The annual fee is £9,535.
A £250 deposit must be paid prior to the start of the course.
This deposit is refundable up until the point of enrolment.
This distance learning degree is ideal for teachers and other people working within international education institutions who want to quickly progress in their careers.
It may qualify you for more senior positions in teaching and educational management in international schools.
The knowledge and skills you develop on the PGCE iQTS course will also transfer to many other sectors, particularly education policy and government.
The University of Sunderland is the awarding body for the PGCE iQTS and is responsible for the quality assurance of that award.
On successful completion of the course, the University of Sunderland recommends graduates to the Department for Education (DfE) UK for the award of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Contact our TNE team for more information about this course: iqts.tne@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/professional-nurse-advocate:
Improve your clinical supervision to support the nursing workforce.
Engage in critical analysis and self-reflection.
Learn to implement the skills and knowledge required of a Professional Nurse Advocate.
The Professional Nurse Advocate (PNA) course is aimed at registered nurses (excluding nursing associates) who have an interest in supporting others through the means of change management and leadership.
You'll have a desire to improve your clinical supervision skills to support the nursing workforce of the future and retain our established nursing teams.
You'll critically analyse the role of the PNA and recognise this in the current strategic context, as well as reflect on your own skills to encourage wider development via several approaches.
The course draws upon the Advocating and Educating for Quality Improvement (A-EQUIP) model of professional nursing leadership and restorative clinical supervision.
On completion of this short course, you'll apply and implement the skills and knowledge obtained to become a Professional Nurse Advocate.
The course is taught one day per week over ten weeks via blended learning, consisting of structured, facilitated lectures online and using a combination of directed and self-directed study.
There are two assessment methods which include a portfolio and a presentation/professional discussion on a quality improvement initiative of your choice.
Assessments will be completed four weeks following the end of the course.
You'll gain 20 credits at the end of the module.
This course is delivered via online distance learning.
This level 7 postgraduate certificate, worth 20 credits, is for registered nurses on part one of the register who can demonstrate recent level 6 or 7 study.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-education:
Become a specialist in education.
Deepen your knowledge with a highly specific postgraduate degree.
Expand your career options in a wide range of educational contexts.
Our MA Education degree is ideal for teachers or other educational professionals who want to develop their careers with a highly specific postgraduate degree.
When you join the course, you'll join a community of practice that includes professionals from a wide range of educational contexts, from primary and secondary through to Higher and Further Education, to workers in prisons and charitable organisations.
We aim to deepen your knowledge and expand your career options as the course offers you the opportunity to engage critically with theory and gain a clear understanding of how this relates to your own practice, background, and experiences in the field of education.
This master's in education is a flexible degree which opens alternative career paths and allows progression into new professional avenues.
Depending on the modules you choose, you'll graduate with one of two MA degree titles:
The MA Education course is taught via seminars, workshops, support sessions, collaborative group work and discussion, tutorials, presentations, interactive practical sessions, and directed private study.
On-campus sessions take place in the evening to fit around those working during the day.
Your progress will be assessed both through written assignments, including a dissertation, and a variety of carefully designed oral and written tasks, including presentations and the production of educational leaflets, among others.
Throughout your master's in education, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
For our international applicants, we will provide the support you need as you embrace a new culture and will try our very best to understand and learn from yours.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that a master's degree requires a higher level of independent working.
If you've studied modules at master's level previously, e.g.
through a PGCE or PCET award, you may be able to transfer some of these credits to the MA Education course.
The credits must be less than five years old and must demonstrate that you've met a range of learning outcomes in relation to our programme in order to be transferred.
This degree is also available part-time over two years or via distance learning .
Gain an understanding of the importance of critical thinking as the basis of your study, located in the belief that critical thinking and analysis in the broader context of education is the model for educating critical professionals.
Develop your skills in self-assessment, mental flexibility, creativity, interpretation, and argument.
Explore the principles and practice of conducting educational research, including research design, data collection, management and analysis, use of I.T.
tools and resources, conducting literature surveys, writing for the academic research community, the politics and ethics of educational research, theoretical perspectives, and current debates relating to research.
Generate and evaluate your own research tools and engage in depth with relevant critical literature.
Complete a substantial piece of research within your chosen field of study and related to your designated route.
Gain an in depth understanding of your specialist area by answering a research question, the proposal for which will have been examined in the Research Methods in Education module.
Explore the principles, concepts, theories and models relating to the development of coaching, guidance and mentoring skills.
Evaluate the impact these might have on teaching and learning.
Demonstrate the development of related skills, the personal qualities that underpin effective learning relationships and the ability to integrate these skills into your professional practice.
Develop supportive relationships, both personal and professional, as well as awareness of the potential of all learners.
Critically explore leadership models and how these are influenced by the micropolitics of organisations.
Evaluate and self-analyse personal and professional development of the strategic leaders in this context.
Consider leader identity by exploring values, motives and goals for developing and enhancing strategic leadership.
Develop interpersonal awareness through critical reflection and evaluate leadership style in terms of impact on others and the organisational context.
Examine the key drivers that influence curriculum development in Britain and across the globe.
Gain a theoretical and practical understanding of the curriculum and its design and development over time.
Critically examine how decisions made about the curriculum have become crucial to how inclusive the provision is and how progress and attainment are achieved through the teaching and learning strategies chosen in light of change.
Explore ways in which we can utilise research data to influence practice and select the most appropriate pedagogies for a specific subject area.
Examine the concept of gender and diversity in relation to inclusive and representative education for all pupils, including transgender and cisgender children.
Learn about gender and diversity in a way that develops your reflective and analytical ability to be adaptive and flexible in response to a dynamic and fast-evolving field.
Develop contemporary knowledge as well as the skills to foster an inclusive, representative, and supportive pedagogical approach and learning environment for all students.
Examine a selection of ideological standpoints in relation to the inclusive education of a range of learners.
Investigate the background to current inclusion debates, contextualised within the current legislative framework.
Discuss a range of issues pertaining to inclusive education and in particular, how the concept of 'inclusion' is conceptualised.
Explore the impact of supporting and working with children, young people, families, and stakeholders in the area of social, emotional, and mental health.
Examine models of mental health and wellbeing in relation to diagnosis and treatment directions, and the impact on life outcomes.
Undertake a critical examination of the rights and needs of children with SEMH difficulties, including childhood adversity and the impact of school policies and procedures in supporting participation and learning and preventing school exclusion.
Critically explore the cause of the barriers to learning that SEND can engender, including the impact of Government policy, adverse childhood experiences and day-to-day practice within a range of health, education and care contexts.
Examine the impact of evidence-based staff knowledge, understanding and skills, and the importance of co-production with caregivers, learners with SEND, and professional organisations to improve participation and outcomes across the life course.
Evaluate ways in which the curriculum you currently work with relates to theoretical models of an Early Years curriculum and identify strengths and limitations.
Critically consider how key themes of the curriculum you work with affect the quality of the educational experiences and holistic development of children.
Explore the impact of culture and society on the curriculum and evaluate the way in which competing demands of different social worlds can influence content and processes.
Examine how children of all abilities from different backgrounds can access the curriculum on an equal basis.
Undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your professional development in leading change and engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue.
Develop both general and specific knowledge and skills, identifying the key skills that will enhance your ability to transfer learning to further study and to the workplace.
Studying for a master's degree in education will equip you with an abundance of valuable skills and knowledge relevant to the field, but how can gaining this postgraduate qualification help your career?
Find out more about the MA Education courses we offer, as well as discover what jobs you can go into and how you can progress within your current role in education.
Find out more about MA Education degrees
You'll be based at The Reg Vardy Centre, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a second-class honours degree (usually a 2:1) or equivalent.
You should also have experience of working in education; this may be as a teacher or in another capacity in the field of education.
A recognised teaching qualification is an advantage, but not an essential requirement for this course.
If you've previously studied a PGCE with us, you can transfer 60 credits over to this master's course.
If your first language isn't English, you must achieve a minimum IELTS score of 6.0 or equivalent before your application is assessed for the next stage of the selection process and an offer letter is issued.
Please note, part-time study is not available to international students who require a Student visa to study in the UK.
If you're a UK home student or EU student residing in the UK, you can apply for SLC funding if you choose to study the part-time course, on campus, over two years, or the full-time course over one year.
If you elect to take longer to complete the course or bring any Level 7 credits from prior study with you, you're likely to be ineligible for SLC funding.
The MA Education degree is ideal for teachers and people working in educational management who want to quickly progress their careers.
The ability to specialise the content of the course offers opportunities in particular fields of education, such as Early Years Teaching.
If you select this route, you'll study modules that will allow you to examine the context of young children's learning and development.
You'll explore how to critically construct an Early Years Curriculum and identify skills that will enhance your ability to transfer learning to further study and to the workplace.
The knowledge and skills you develop undertaking a master's in education will also transfer to many other sectors, particularly education policy and government.
If you're already working in a relevant field, you'll graduate with enhanced potential for progression professionally.
Please note that this course doesn't qualify you as a teacher.
Read more about possible career opportunities with an MA Education degree .
The University of Sunderland’s Centre for Pedagogy has three research themes, including Affective Issues in Learning and Teaching; Pedagogy and Critical Thinking in Specific Subject Areas; and Professional Education and Development.
The Centre unifies the University’s research, influences policy and organises conferences and professorial lectures.
Page last updated:  06 March 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/medicine/pgcert-medical-education:
Develop your skills, knowledge and understanding of medical education at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Grow in your role as a teacher or supervisor in the clinical workplace as well as the classroom.
Take your first steps towards a fulfilling career in medical education or higher education.
The PgCert in Medical Education is designed to bridge the gap between theory, evidence, and practice, with a strong emphasis on the practicalities of medical education.
The course is delivered by both experienced clinicians and academics, including a range of external contributors with specialist expertise in the field of medical education, via a mix of online and face-to-face workshops, seminars and support sessions.
The course combines online lectures, group seminars, interactive workshops, self-study, as well as activities via the Canvas platform, such as:
You'll be formally assessed using multiple methods including critical reflective and essay writing, individual presentation, and portfolio.
This module is designed for those involved in undergraduate or postgraduate medical education and training within classroom-based settings.
It focuses on enhancing your understanding of the theory and evidence behind medical education practices while encouraging critical reflection on your own teaching.
With immediate practical relevance, it is ideal for anyone who teaches regularly and seeks to further develop their educational knowledge and skills.
This module is designed for those engaged in undergraduate or postgraduate medical education within workplace-based settings.
It aims to deepen your understanding of the theory and evidence underpinning clinical workplace-based education while introducing a variety of assessment and feedback tools.
You'll also explore key debates and best practices in clinical teaching.
Examine the support and supervision aspects of medical education, extending beyond teaching to roles such as postgraduate educational supervisors, personal tutors, and programme leads.
Grounded in GMC supervision domains, cover essential areas including learning environments, educational culture, governance, and support for both learners and educators.
This course is based in the School of Medicine, within Murray Health at our City Campus .
Teaching may also take place online in-person.
You are expected to be a regular teacher or supervisor of medical students or doctors/healthcare professionals in current UK practice.
University of Sunderland staff will apply via the HR staff qualifications policy, agreeing workload remission and support with their line manager.
Candidates are encouraged to contact the course admin team if there are any questions or uncertainties, to ensure that the course learning outcomes can be achieved and that the route is suitable for you.
We accept Accreditation of Prior Learning in terms of credit value from accredited university educational qualifications and these credits will count directly towards your qualification.
We will ask for proof of the credits before an offer is issued.
The majority of students who study this course will be qualified health care professionals seeking to develop their career in medical education.
The course is designed to develop your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and as such, will ensure that you are a ble to offer high quality student-centred teaching and learning experiences for your students.
On successful completion of the course, you can use this as advanced standing if you wish to continue your studies and enrol onto the Master of Medical Education .
This Masters course is an internationally recognised higher degree in medical education, with a major emphasis on developing participants as contemporary educators in medicine.
You would enter year two of this course.
Page last updated:  12 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-international-dl:
PGCE Education (DL)
Application deadline 5th September 2025
The PGCE Education Distance Learning (DL) degree at the University of Sunderland is an internationally recognised teaching qualification.
This International Initial Teacher Training course blends applied teaching theory and practice in three taught modules and one extended teaching practice module.
It has been developed so that it can be delivered to primary and secondary teachers, and to any subject specialism.
It is a 36-week full-time course, completed in one academic year which can be undertaken both in the UK and in international settings via distance learning.
While this course does not provide a direct route to QTS, it can be used with our Assessment Only Route to QTS , if a candidate is suitably qualified and experienced.
The PGCE Education (DL) degree is split into two semesters and has four core modules.
There are two theory and practice of teaching modules, and two master's modules, which include a case study module and an action research module.
The teaching practice is work-based and conducted entirely in a school that you have secured a placement at, or are currently working at.
This is supported by a mentor and university staff.
Assessment is through written assignments, a profile of evidence of teaching standards and observed teaching.
In this module, you'll develop and understanding of the importance of the support mechanisms available to teachers in schools.
You'll gain a critical understanding of a key educational theme applicable to your context and identify an appropriate approach and context on which to base a case study.
You'll analyse the role played in individuals' learning by the teacher and teaching assistant within the context of the educational system, policies, and legislation.
The module will finish with a piece of applied research appropriate to the situation identified for the case.
This module will give you the opportunity to structure and undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your professional development, encouraging you to engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue.
You'll develop both general and specific knowledge and skills, relevant to your chosen project.
You'll also identify and develop key skills to enhance your ability to transfer learning to further study and the workplace.
We require applicants to hold an honours degree or equivalent.
For those without a first degree studied in the medium of English, Academic IELTS is required.
The PGCE Education (DL) course has two teaching placement blocks, one each semester.
For many, these blocks will be conducted within your school of employment – though other trainees may need to find schools that will take them as volunteers.
If you wish to teach in early years (kindergarten), you'll need to apply for the PGCE Early Years Teaching (DL) course.
The first block requires trainees to teach 11 hours per week for six weeks (66 hours in total) with the second block requiring trainees to teach 14 hours per week for six weeks (84 hours in total).
You'll therefore need to source placements that allow you to teach 150 hours across both blocks.
You'll also need to ensure that an appropriately qualified mentor is available in your placement school.
We require all trainees to ensure that their placement blocks are in alignment with the calendar for the year.
For September intakes, the first placement block will usually take place in October to December with the second window usually between February to April.
For February intakes, this is usually April to June and September to November.
Trainees can be made a conditional offer without a placement and mentor in place, but you'll need to provide details of your placement/s and mentor before you can formally take up an offer and begin the course.
Please note that securing a mentor and school is the responsibility of the trainee and not that of the University.
With all four modules complete, you'll graduate with a PGCE.
You may, however, take up to three years to fully complete and graduate, should this be necessary.
Advice on how to find a placement Advice to applicants seeking a placement (.pdf) PGCE Education (Distance Learning) FAQs Observation of experienced teachers Where possible, you should secure a reasonable number of teaching observations per week to support your work on the Subject Studies and Practice of Teaching modules.
This can be in a school of your choice, and it's usually in the school where you'll undertake your placement.
Before applying As part of your online application, you'll be asked to confirm you agree to the teaching requirements of the course.
You'll be asked to confirm contact details for your placement school, placement school head teacher and placement school mentor.
Please note that, as indicated above, conditional offers to join the course will still be made if these details aren't available – though they must be in place before you can formally take a place on the course.
You must also provide us with a copy of your degree certificate.
Please provide both original and English translation (if applicable).
If your degree was awarded by a UK University, you'll be exempt from providing proof of English.
We accept the following as evidence of English language: Transcript or certificate of your degree which clearly states you studied in the medium of instruction in English Letter from your University clearly stating the medium of instruction to be English Academic IELTS.
If English isn't your first language, you need to send proof of Academic IELTS level 6.5 or equivalent (applicants whose first language is not English must achieve a minimum Academic IELTS band score of 6.5, with 6.5 in writing, and no less than 6 in Reading and Speaking and Listening).
Without the above documents, we'll be unable to make you an offer on this course.
Advice to applicants seeking a placement (.pdf) PGCE Education (Distance Learning) FAQs Observation of experienced teachers Where possible, you should secure a reasonable number of teaching observations per week to support your work on the Subject Studies and Practice of Teaching modules.
PGCE Education (Distance Learning) FAQs Observation of experienced teachers Where possible, you should secure a reasonable number of teaching observations per week to support your work on the Subject Studies and Practice of Teaching modules.
Where possible, you should secure a reasonable number of teaching observations per week to support your work on the Subject Studies and Practice of Teaching modules.
As part of your online application, you'll be asked to confirm you agree to the teaching requirements of the course.
The annual fee is £8,103.
This distance learning degree in Education is ideal for teachers and other people working within international education institutions who want to quickly progress their careers.
It will qualify you for more senior positions in teaching and educational management in international schools.
The knowledge and skills you develop on the PGCE Education course will also transfer to many other sectors, particularly education policy and government.
Please note that this course does not award Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which you would normally need to teach in a state-maintained school in England.
Contact our TNE team for more information about this course: pgceeducation.tne@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  08 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-early-years-teaching:
The PGCE Early Years Teaching (DL) degree is ideal for people living outside of the UK who already work, or have the desire to work, with children aged 0-5.
If you want to develop a specialism or further enhance your professionalism in teaching young children up to the age of five, then this International Initial Teacher Training course is for you.
This PGCE Early Years Teaching course is aimed at professionals and practitioners who will engage in an intensive one year distance learning programme to acquire knowledge, understanding, and skills with regard to working with children and families in the international early years context.
Our course is distinctive in that it offers a highly flexible mode of learning, with teaching and assessment delivered entirely via distance learning using our university VLE (Virtual Learning Environment), without ever having to come to the UK.
Studying for the PGCE Early Years Teaching (DL) degree means you can learn from anywhere in the world that has internet access, as learning materials will be e-books, online journal papers and other online resources.
There will be online discussion forums where you can debate current issues relevant to the module content.
All academic assignments are marked online (with online feedback).
Teaching practices are monitored continuously by your Personal Academic Tutor and you will upload documentation and evidence weekly for feedback.
Your progress will be assessed with written assignments and observed teaching.
This PGCE Early Years Teaching course has four modules of applied theory (60 credits at undergraduate level and 60 credits at master's level) which are spread out over the academic year.
The four modules of applied theory allow you to examine the context of young children’s learning and development.
You will also explore how to assess development and learning, how to construct a curriculum, and how to lead Early Years provision.
Additionally, and concurrently, you will undertake two teaching experiences in an early years setting of your choice – either at your own workplace or with an employer who is willing to provide you with a placement and mentor.
This module will enable you to develop a critical understanding of the development of an effective early years curriculum.
Throughout the module, there will be opportunities to reflect upon your practice and identify what the most appropriate provision is within the early years.
You'll also gain an in-depth understanding of using play as a vehicle for learning.
Providing you with the opportunity to undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your professional development in leading change, this module will encourage you to engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue.
We usually require applicants to hold an honours degree or equivalent.
You must be able to undertake two teaching experiences as part of this course.
This can be a setting where you already work or another Early Years setting.
If you're not currently employed as a teacher and will be seeking a placement school, please read our advice to applicants seeking a placement (.pdf) and FAQs before applying.
Before applying Along with your application form, you must upload the following documents: 1.
Supplemental Application Documents (.pdf) 2.
A copy of your degree certificate.
If English isn't your first language, you need to send proof of IELTS level 6.5 or equivalent.
Applicants whose first language is not English must achieve a minimum IELTS band score of 6.5, with 6.5 in writing, and no less than 6 in Reading and Speaking and Listening.
Without these documents, we'll be unable to offer you a place on the course.
Along with your application form, you must upload the following documents: 1.
The PGCE Early Years Teaching degree is ideal for teachers and other people working with children aged 0-5.
It has the potential to qualify you for a range of positions in teaching and learning and educational management, in schools and educational institutions around the world.
The theory and practical elements of the course will help you gain greater satisfaction from your involvement in early years.
With up to date knowledge and expertise in child development, early years curriculum and pedagogy you will be in a strong position to make effective applications for jobs as an early years teacher and promoted posts.
Please note that this course does not award Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) or Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS), which you need to teach in any state-maintained school in England or Wales.
From our previous cohorts, successful graduates have moved to enhanced job roles, both within and out of their existing workplace settings.
Successful graduates from this course have used their master's level credits to gain entry to and accelerate their progress on master's degrees both at the University of Sunderland and other international universities.
Contact our TNE team for more information about this course: pgceearly.tne@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  12 February 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/undergraduate-health-social-care-fd:
Earn an academic qualification that also delivers practical skills.
Boost your earning potential.
This highly practical two-year foundation degree in Health and Social Care will allow you to develop your career.
You'll gain a detailed understanding of health and social care policy and practice, which you can use straight away in any workplace that involves caring for individuals and communities.
This is a highly practical Health and Social Care course, which combines academic study and work-based learning.
The elements of the foundation course which are taught in the college include lectures, discussions, case studies, and workshops.
Your progress will be assessed with evaluations of work experience, reports, presentations, and time-constrained tests.
Explore the central concerns of health and social care in a practical setting.
Examine the complexities surrounding the understanding of knowledge, theories, issues, and skills required when working within health and social care practice.
Demonstrate the knowledge and skills through work-based learning to increase your employability when you graduate.
Gain an understanding of the theory and practice of qualitative research methodologies and methods in social science.
Discover the history of social science research and the philosophical and methodological debates which have underpinned the emergence of contemporary social science.
Carry out your own research, investigating an aspect of contemporary social life, learning how to think about, organise, manage, and report on social scientific research.
Examine the complexities of what we mean by health and how inequalities in health are endemic.
Consider the roles that biology, psychology and sociology may play in inherent individual behaviour, in order to understand the complexities of individual and collective behaviour in contemporary society.
Interpret and apply these theoretical perspectives to specific issues within different areas of social sciences.
Develop your study skills and personal qualities required in an academic and professional context.
Explore the social contexts in relation to the practical and emotional effects of transitioning into Higher Education and the impact of this on your learning.
Reflect upon this, learning strategies and mechanisms of support to facilitate the transition.
Explore what we understand health to mean and the multifactorial perspectives which contribute towards this understanding.
Examine biomedical and social understandings of health and illness and the impact of social class, gender, ethnicity, and place, as well as the impact of the media and how health and illness is represented therein.
Examine the contemporary challenges in health and social care and consider the implications these issues have for policy and practice.
Learn about how and why these challenges have emerged and the complexities of dealing with them.
Analyse the ways in which the challenges covered have been informed and developed as a result of global and local social changes, culture, politics, ideology, and economics converging as current social problems.
Investigate a range of empirical sources and use theoretical models to explore some of the possible wider sociological causes of the issues covered.
Learn about the theory and practice of quantitative research methodologies and methods in social science.
Apply the principles underpinning quantitative research to the analysis and interpretation of statistical data.
Carry out your own research, investigating an aspect of contemporary social life, learning how to think about, organise, manage, and report quantitative research.
Build on the knowledge gained throughout the course to develop your own practice, reflection, and ability to apply theory to practice.
Study the concepts, theories and models underpinning contemporary health promotion and lifestyle behaviour change.
Examine biopsychosocial theoretical approaches, values, and beliefs in relation to the application of models of health promotion and behaviour change.
Study what lessons can be learned by partner agencies about the safeguarding of children and vulnerable adults, through the analysis of real serious case reviews.
Develop knowledge of life course approaches towards health, incorporating biopsychosocial theoretical perspectives.
Gain knowledge and a critical understanding of each early life stage from before birth through to young adulthood, including contemporary challenges which are compared to different historical periods and different geographical places.
This course is taught at East Durham College .
To apply for this course, you need one of the following qualifications in a relevant subject area: In addition to these academic qualifications, you should have experience in health and social care.
The experience can be from paid work or voluntary work.
You may also be eligible to apply if you don’t have formal qualifications but do have at least two years’ relevant work experience.
You'll need a satisfactory enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check before you can start this course.
In addition to these academic qualifications, you should have experience in health and social care.
The fees for this course are:
Please note that this course is not available to international students.
Health and social care is a diverse field with opportunities to specialise in areas such as young people, mental health, or drug and alcohol abuse support.
Academic qualifications in Health and Social Care allow you to work in the NHS, charities such as Age UK and MIND, social care organisations such as Turning Point, and other public, private, and voluntary sector health agencies.
Some careers, such as social work, nursing or occupational therapy, require additional academic and professional qualifications.
When you've completed this Foundation Degree, you'll have the opportunity to 'top-up' to the full undergraduate BSc (Hons) Health, Wellbeing and Care in Society degree.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/msc-clinical-pharmacy:
Gain vital core skills and knowledge necessary to prepare for your role as an advanced pharmacist practitioner and prescriber.
Use your portfolio assessments in building your Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) individual pharmacist portfolio.
This innovative course focuses on advancing your clinical practice, leadership, management, education, and research skills while incorporating the independent prescribing qualification.
It is ideally suited for newly qualified pharmacists and those progressing towards advanced clinical practice.
We are one of the few institutions that integrates the RPS e-Portfolio into its curriculum.
This unique feature empowers you to build your RPS e-Portfolio within the course, with your assessed work directly contributing to its development.
By graduation, you will have a comprehensive portfolio that you can further refine and, if you choose, submit separately for RPS PRF credentialing.
We offer a Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip) in Clinical Pharmacy, completed over two years, and a Master of Science (MSc) in Clinical Pharmacy, completed over three years.
Pharmacists who already hold a PgDip in Clinical Pharmacy (or equivalent postgraduate qualification) may be eligible to apply for the MSc Top-Up, completed over one year.
MSc students will engage in a research project, equipping them to develop as skilled research practitioners.
Join us to take the next step in your pharmacy career with a course designed to equip you for the future of clinical practice.
The course is delivered through a blended learning approach, with a strong emphasis on interactive distance-learning materials that you can engage with at your own time and pace.
Teaching is delivered via online lectures, expert interviews, directed reading, case-based scenarios, research activities, tutorials, and dedicated online tutor support.
Content is divided into manageable, bite-sized chunks, allowing you to focus on specific areas in a short timeframe.
You can test your knowledge with self-check quizzes, watch expert consultations, or explore video tutorials.
You’ll also attend on-campus teaching sessions for hands-on clinical skills development and participate in a series of live online seminars.
These sessions are led by experienced academic pharmacists actively working in practice, highly specialist advanced clinical pharmacist practitioners, and a wide range of other healthcare professionals.
The modules are designed to run throughout the academic year, giving you the flexibility to manage your own schedule and study at your own pace within the module timeframe.
Unlike undergraduate courses, this course requires a higher level of independent working, empowering you to take greater control of your learning experience.
You'll be assessed through a combination of written coursework and a work-based e-Portfolio.
The e-Portfolio assesses learning and development through a variety of supervised learning events (SLEs), specifically tailored to meet the module and course outcomes.
SLEs will be assessed in the workplace by either your educational supervisor, practice supervisor (responsible for day-to-day supervision in the workplace setting), or a suitably experienced member of the multidisciplinary team (MDT).
Strengthen your capabilities as a safe and effective practitioner while deepening your critical understanding of the clinical pharmacist's role.
Advance your consultation and history-taking skills, integrating diagnostic testing into patient-centred care.
Build on existing knowledge with an evidence-based approach to problem-solving, prioritising patient safety and systematic decision-making.
Explore your strengths and develop qualities to build and lead effective teams.
Learn how to advocate for and implement change using quality improvement and leadership strategies.
Deepen your knowledge of risk management and error reporting to improve patient outcomes and reduce adverse events.
Gain the skills to create, analyse, critique, and apply evidence to enhance healthcare outcomes.
Explore key approaches, from hypothesis formation to the synthesis of systematic reviews.
Design a research project on a topic of your choice, guided by the principles of healthcare research.
Build your skills in acute patient care while fostering personal development, identifying learning opportunities, and reflecting on feedback.
Develop confidence in evaluating evidence, creating management plans, and collaborating within a multidisciplinary team.
Explore teaching and learning theories used in clinical education and use your expertise to mentor and train colleagues effectively.
Develop your knowledge and skills in managing long-term conditions using a holistic approach within a multidisciplinary team across care sectors.
Strengthen your ability to critically evaluate the evidence for managing long-term conditions, while considering the importance of health promotion and public engagement.
Create a portfolio showcasing your expertise in caring for patients with long-term conditions and your ongoing professional development.
Prescribing is fully integrated into this course offering a seamless pathway to becoming a qualified prescriber.
Build on the knowledge and skills gained throughout the course to facilitate your transition into independent prescribing.
This module is accredited by The General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) and leads to a Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists .
A separate application is required for this course.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of research methods, including ethical, theoretical, and logistical considerations.
Learn to critically evaluate research literature, and design, justify, and carry out research in your chosen clinical field.
Develop the ability to communicate research findings effectively and identify ways to apply them to improve healthcare practice.
Onsite facilities include state-of-the-art equipment for pharmacy.
On-campus teaching for clinical skills is held within the Living Lab in the John Dawson Sciences Complex, which boasts multi-disciplinary laboratories and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million pound investments.
Online facilities include the use of the VLE Canvas where software such as reVIEW and Storyline are utilised to deliver the course.
Applicants should preferably work in a patient-facing clinical role.
Before applying, we strongly recommend securing an educational supervisor; they can be based in your workplace or provide remote support if needed.
Your educational supervisor should be suitably experienced, with at least three years post-registration experience.
They will play a key role in assessing workplace-supervised learning events (SLEs) and supporting your overall progress throughout your learning journey.
For the PgDip, MSc, and MSc Top-Up we require: Registration with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) Current employment as a pharmacist in the UK Your undergraduate degree should be recognised by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) For the MSc Top-Up we also require: Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Pharmacy (or equivalent postgraduate pharmacy programme; this will be assessed for relevance by the team on application) If English is not your first language, please see our English language requirements .
For the MSc Top-Up we also require: Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Pharmacy (or equivalent postgraduate pharmacy programme; this will be assessed for relevance by the team on application) If English is not your first language, please see our English language requirements .
Tuition fees are:
Each year of the course requires 60 credits to complete.
We encourage you to plan your career progression with your employer.
On completing this course you will be equipped with the advanced skills and knowledge specifically needed for progression into various senior pharmacist roles.
A promotion to a higher band of pay can quickly ensure a good return on your investment in the course.
Page last updated:  13 February 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/patient-safety-quality-improvement:
Improve the experience of service users, clients and their families and carers.
Become a compassionate, inclusive and effective leader.
There is an increasing need for innovation and transformation in service design to improve quality and safety in the NHS.
Subsequently, this gives rise to sustainable service improvements that can be disseminated across healthcare providers.
This module will support you in developing leadership knowledge, skills, and experience in Quality Improvement and Patient Safety to address some of these contemporary challenges.
You are expected to evaluate your organisation and clinical practice to ensure they have the right skills and resources to implement successful improvements.
You'll identify local priorities for quality improvements that will make a difference to our local healthcare systems and learn how to engage with frontline staff, businesses, and academia helping to stimulate innovation and improvement.
You can study the full Postgraduate Certificate in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement, or study module one, Developing Leadership and Action in Quality Improvement and Patient Safety, or module two, Evidencing Capability and Competence in Continuously Improving Care, separately.
When applying, please specify whether you'd like to complete the full Postgraduate Certificate in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement or module one/two.
The course consists of two modules, one block of six weeks per module.
There's a part-time day release commitment for 14 weeks per module, for teaching days.
There are six teaching days, with one day per block for self-directed study and learning, totalling 14 days of on-campus study.
The course will be taught on a day-release basis at the University for the duration of the course, however, there is an expectation that you will be afforded time to undertake independent learning and study as well as some work-based learning to meet the demands of the course.
Learning methods include lectures, debates, seminars, group work, case studies, problem-solving exercises, skills development, project-related work, and directed and independent learning.
You'll be assessed via a 3000-word critical reflective essay.
Develop your leadership knowledge, skills, and experience in quality improvement and patient safety, addressing the challenges of improving quality of care in clinical practice.
You'll evaluate your own organisation to make sure you have the right skills and resources to implement successful improvements.
You'll identify local priorities for quality improvements that will make a difference to our healthcare systems, and develop skills to engage with frontline staff, businesses, and academia to encourage innovation.
Topics include:
Develop and adopt core leadership capabilities and competencies to continuously improve quality of care and patient safety.
These competencies are associated with the five conditions that shape cultures to enable people to improve care, population health, and value, as outlined in the national framework in NHS-funded services.
You'll be required to identify the key knowledge, skills, and behaviours that must be acquired to fulfil the expectations of your role and the award.
This will be facilitated in the work-based learning process by identifying core learning outcomes, a clinical supervision process for practice learning, and an assessment process that addresses the requirements of the clinical role and the level of university award.
This course is based in the Sciences Complex in our City Campus, which has benefited from a recent multimillion pound investment.
If you are a student, you should: Be a healthcare professional and have a responsibility for patient safety or quality improvement within your role Have studied within the last four years at level 6 or equivalent Hold a 2:2 or above in a degree (or have equivalent experience, which includes registration with a professional body and subsequent work-based experience) Have an identified supervisor (which must be pre-arranged before application) If you are a supervisor, you should: Be someone within the organisation who can facilitate the leadership of quality improvement and patient safety development of the student Regularly work in Quality Improvement and patient safety as part of your ongoing work Be a competent and experienced leader Be able to provide the student with appropriate support and guidance When applying, please specify whether you would like to complete the full Postgraduate Certificate in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement or module one/two.
Please note you must complete module one prior to starting module two for the full Postgraduate Certificate.
If you are a supervisor, you should: Be someone within the organisation who can facilitate the leadership of quality improvement and patient safety development of the student Regularly work in Quality Improvement and patient safety as part of your ongoing work Be a competent and experienced leader Be able to provide the student with appropriate support and guidance When applying, please specify whether you would like to complete the full Postgraduate Certificate in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement or module one/two.
When applying, please specify whether you would like to complete the full Postgraduate Certificate in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement or module one/two.
The fee for the full Postgraduate Certificate in Patient Safety and Quality Improvement is £2,300.
If you choose to study one of the 30-credit modules, the fee will be £1,225.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/undergraduate-counselling-foundation:
Develop your career by combining this part-time counselling course with practical placements or paid work.
Earn an academic qualification that also delivers practical skills and the option to top-up to a full honours degree.
This Foundation Degree is taught at East Durham College.
You can then 'top-up' to a BA (Hons) Counselling at the University of Sunderland.
The course has a strong practical focus and our teaching will help you reflect on your workplace experiences.
When you successfully complete this course you will be awarded a Foundation Degree in Counselling that is accredited by the University of Sunderland.
Please contact East Durham College to apply for this course.
During your first year, you will be required to undertake some form of voluntary work so that you can practise the skills that you are learning on the course.
In the second year, you will undertake a placement with a counselling agency, and we will support you as you arrange it.
This is a highly practical course, which combines academic study and work-based learning.
The elements of the course which are taught in the college include lectures, discussions, case studies and workshops.
Your progress will be assessed with evaluations of work experience, reports and presentations.
This module provides a detailed overview of a core model for counselling, exploring its historical background and current relevance.
How does this model apply in practice, and what interventions does it offer?
You’ll gain an understanding of its theoretical and practical foundations, while learning how it’s used in real-world counselling scenarios.
The exact content of the module may vary depending on the institution's chosen core model, shaped by the expertise of the teaching staff.
Professional bodies recommend that all counselling students master a core model as it forms a strong base for exploring other approaches.
This module explores the personal and professional skills required to practice as a counsellor.
What are the ethical, legal, and practical issues that you need to understand before embarking on a clinical placement?
Through lectures, seminars, and tutor-facilitated reflective groups, you’ll prepare for your future clinical practice.
You will develop self-awareness and learn how to assess your developmental needs by using a personal journal, tracking your growth throughout the year.
Each week, reflective group discussions will dive into different aspects of counselling, helping you to connect personal and professional insights as you start your clinical practice journey.
This module combines teaching practical counselling methods with hands-on experience.
You’ll engage in exercises, demonstrations, and roleplays in triads, taking turns as the client, counsellor, and observer.
Recording your sessions will help you reflect, learn from your practice, and create material for assessment.
You’ll also get written feedback from both peers and tutors to support your development.
Throughout, you’ll track your progress in a personal journal, preparing for your final assessment.
Which role are you most excited to try: client, counsellor, or observer?
This module covers key issues in counselling theory, practice, and evidence, focusing on real world challenges.
You’ll explore topics like the regulation of psychological professions, how limits in counselling practice are set, and other important areas include the impact of a counsellor’s personal beliefs, working with mental health, addiction, trauma, and diverse client populations, as well as the role of supervision.
You’ll also examine emerging issues like working with perpetrators of crime, climate anxiety, and the risks of new technologies, such as AI and chatbots in counselling.
You’ll explore the similarities and differences between these approaches and reassess the theories behind your first-year core model.
The module also focuses on counselling integration, looking at the benefits, challenges, and potential downsides in practice.
How can you apply different counselling approaches to your work?
In this module, you’ll evaluate new methods, understand their ethical issues, and reflect on how they fit into your practice.
Use your developing skills to practise counselling in a real-world setting.
Undertake supervised counselling practice in a placement setting with support from staff and peers to enhance your skills.
Share your experiences of counselling practice while drawing on your personal journal and anonymised casework material recorded in practice.
How can your personal experiences shape your professional practice?
In this experimental module, you’ll explore the connection between personal development and counselling skills, gaining a deeper understanding of both.
You’ll have the chance to explore your own self-awareness and gain deeper insights through meaningful discussions with your peers in a Personal Development Group led by a group facilitator.
The focus is on how your personal and professional selves as a counsellor develop in relationship with others.
Throughout the module, you’ll keep a personal journal to track your growth and reflect on your development, which will also help you with your assessments.
Learn about specific issues of theory, evidence, and practice pertinent to working with certain problems and types of clients in a counselling context.
Examples may include mental health problems, working with diversity to become culturally competent, grief and loss, family therapy techniques, relationship problems, and victims of abuse.
Consider the role of advocacy, mediation, non-managerial supervision, and other roles outside the normal counselling role.
Discuss areas of controversy and debate in counselling.
How can you apply your counselling skills in a professional setting?
In this module, you’ll find a clinical placement to complete 100 hours of supervised counselling practice.
During this time, you’ll work with an experienced counsellor who will provide clinical supervision, helping you apply the skills and knowledge you’ve learned during your FdA Counselling course in a real-world setting.
Throughout your placement, you’ll gain experience managing the therapeutic process, using supervision effectively, and understanding the policies and procedures of a counselling organisation.
You’ll also develop essential professional skills and learn about clinical governance to ensure good counselling practice.
This placement is a professional requirement for becoming a qualified counsellor, and completing it will help you meet that standard.
The typical entry requirement is a Level 3 Certificate in Counselling.
Students would normally be in voluntary or paid work as a Counsellor or undertaking (or about to undertake) paid or voluntary work in a setting which will allow you to practice counselling skills.
You may be required to attend an interview.
Please contact East Durham College for more information at 0191 518 2000 or email: Dr Joanna Naxton: joanna.naxton@eastdurham.ac.uk Sarah Anderson: sarah.anderson@eastdurham.ac.uk If English is not your first language, please see our English language requirements .
Dr Joanna Naxton: joanna.naxton@eastdurham.ac.uk Sarah Anderson: sarah.anderson@eastdurham.ac.uk If English is not your first language, please see our English language requirements .
Sarah Anderson: sarah.anderson@eastdurham.ac.uk If English is not your first language, please see our English language requirements .
The tuition fees for this course are £5,665 per 120 credits if you are from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
There is a course requirement stipulating that all students need to acquire student membership of the BACP at own cost prior to beginning counselling practice in a placement.
Prospective students are advised to consult the BACP for the latest information on student membership which currently stands at £82.
Possible additional costs:
In the second year of the course, students must undertake a placement with a counselling agency.
If the counselling placement provider cannot supply an appropriate supervisor, it is the responsibility of the student to identify a suitable supervisor and also pay for any fees charged for this service.
A Foundation Degree equips you to move into a broad range of careers or to pursue an honours degree with one more year of study.
There is a natural progression from this Foundation Degree to the Counselling (Top-Up) course at the University of Sunderland for a full BA (Hons) Counselling.
There is a growing demand for counsellors to work in the health sector, voluntary and community sector and in private practice.
This is because of better awareness of the benefits of talking therapies by policymakers, health professionals and the general public.
Counselling careers include educational counselling (where you help deal with difficulties in learning and social adjustment), forensic counselling (where you become an expert in psychological issues associated with criminal behaviours), and clinical counselling (where you deal with mental and physical health problems).
In addition, skills in counselling are useful in many different careers including personnel, social work, public services, marketing and advertising.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/children-young-people-nursing:
Learn the requirements of becoming a registered children's nurse through modules in professional practice and nursing practice.
Develop skills to communicate with children, young people, and their families.
Graduate with the qualifications needed to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council as a registered children's nurse.
Are you passionate about helping young people?
Do you want to develop your clinical skills and embark on a thriving career in children's nursing?
Our BSc (Hons) Children's and Young People's Nursing Practice degree could be for you.
This children's nursing course will allow you to learn how to care for children and young people in community, acute, and critical settings, and develop confidence through practical application of your learning.
You'll be taught by expert practitioners with first-hand experience of nursing and you'll gain competence in the care of children who require assistance to meet their health needs, including how to deliver support to patients with long-term health issues.
You'll appreciate the theoretical aspects that are essential to children's nursing and also develop the personal skills to communicate with children, young people, and their families.
Clinical placements will make up 50% of your time on this children's nursing course and we work closely with local healthcare providers to organise placements which allow you to put theory into practice, including the Great North Children's Hospital in Newcastle, one of the best in the UK.
You'll also have the chance to benefit from our on-campus facilities, including our interactive mock hospital wards with child and baby manikins, and work alongside our Patient, Carer and Public Involvement (PCPI) participants.
On successful completion of the Children's and Young People's Nursing course, you'll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered children's nurse.
During your first year of the BSc (Hons) Children's and Young People's Nursing Practice degree, you'll be introduced to the requirements of becoming a registered children's nurse through studying and completing modules in nursing practice and critical enquiry.
50% of your time over the duration of the course will be in clinical practice under the supervision of registered practitioners, in a range of clinical settings in and out of hospital.
A key aspect of our course is patient involvement and patient centred care, and you'll have regular contact with our PCPI members throughout this children's nursing course, who all have experience as patients or carers.
As a nurse, you'll need to demonstrate compassionate and caring approaches to patients and interprofessional working in the healthcare workforce.
This children's nursing degree provides you with opportunities to learn and work alongside other students and staff from a range of disciplines.
Develop the required skills for evidence-based practice in children's nursing.
Explore the core skills of children's nursing and take a holistic view of the individual focusing on health promotion, comprehensive assessment and the application of evidence-based practice.
Use a range of teaching and learning strategies to explore the impact of these changes and define the implications for children's nursing practice.
Develop knowledge and the application of children's nursing practice interventions to provide evidence-based, safe, and compassionate physical and psychological care.
Effectively assess, plan and implement care and demonstrate a range of children's nursing interventions.
Explore the evidence base of children's nursing practice and the range and hierarchy of evidence for particular healthcare issues.
Select a particular area in your field of children's nursing and develop your ability to make informed use of published research and other sources of evidence to apply findings to enhance your practice.
Develop your knowledge and application of children's nursing to practice within a range of clinical settings.
Learn more about children's nursing
You must show evidence of recent academic study within the last five years at entry level.
Please note, we don't accept General Studies AS or A Level.
Please note, we're unable to accept international applicants.
Children's nurses can look forward to a rewarding and challenging key worker career.
They make a difference to the lives of children and young people in need of healthcare every day.
The completion of this course will lead to registration as a children's nurse.
Children's nurses are responsive to the needs of children, young people, and their families and deliver care within a variety of settings, including hospitals, health centres, children’s centres, GP practices and the family home.
Paediatric nurses are key members of the multidisciplinary team involved in the delivery of care to children and young people with healthcare needs.
Start your children's nursing career at the University of Sunderland working in the local healthcare organisations and develop lifelong nursing skills in a collaborative and supportive environment.
Many career opportunities are available post-qualification and with additional qualifications, children's nurses have the potential of earning an even higher salary.
At all levels of this children's nursing course, you'll undertake unpaid clinical placements in hospitals and the community.
Placements can take place at any of our partner Trusts: South Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust, The Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (including Great North Children's Hospital), North Tees and Hartlepool Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust, Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust and Harrogate, and District NHS Foundation Trust.
During your children's nursing placements, you'll be assigned Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who'll directly assess and supervise you, as well as act as a means of support and guidance.
Interviews start in late November.
Placements are limited, so you'll be expected to travel to ensure you gain experience in a wide range of areas.
This will allow you to enhance your clinical experience and develop into a children's nurse with the knowledge and skills needed to be a safe and effective practitioner
Shifts can be anywhere between 7-12 hours and the pattern can vary between Trusts.
It is not possible to fit placements around school hours and holidays.
Page last updated:  30 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/business-management-stage-3-top-up:
If you are applying for this course for Stage 3 - January, click apply now.
Develop strong skills and knowledge in all areas of business.
Study specialist modules that cover marketing strategy, human resources and management accounting.
Join our well-established undergraduate Business and Management course at Stage 3 (final year) and top-up your existing qualification to a full degree in just one year of study.
BA (Hons) Business and Management is our most popular undergraduate business degree, and will give you a broad foundation in management, marketing, finance, operations, and the world economy.
Please note that you'll be joining our BA (Hons) Business and Management degree at Stage 3, final year entry.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, group work, and e-learning, and your progress will be assessed by written exams, case studies, assignments, and reports.
Compared to HND level, you'll be expected to work more independently and take greater responsibility for your own learning.
You’ll be based at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s on the banks of the River Wear.
You’ll have access to excellent facilities including specialist collections of books and resources, as well as a brand new 'Student Learning Space'.
The typical entry requirement is successful completion of an HND or its equivalent as follows: BTEC HND in Business and Management or in a related area IBAM Advanced Diploma in Business Administration ABE Advanced Diploma in Business Administration 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant subject.
When you graduate from this course, you'll have excellent skills and knowledge in all areas of business and management.
You'll be ready to step into a leadership or management role in a wide variety of industries across the world.
Some of the sectors which employ our graduates include technology (Microsoft, IBM), consumer goods (P&G, Nike, Adidas), banking (Lloyds TSB), hospitality (Marriott Hotels, Starbucks), and government departments and agencies.
Visiting speakers help you relate academic learning to the real experience of people who've already progressed in their careers.
It’s all part of broadening your learning so that you’re prepared not just for exams, but for life.
Page last updated:  22 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-accounting-financial-management-tp:
If you are applying from within the UK, click apply now.
If you are applying for this course from outside the UK, click apply now.
Integrate the key areas of accounting and financial management within a business context.
Develop fresh approaches to solving problems at work and integrate knowledge from a variety of topics.
The BA (Hons) Accounting and Financial Management (Top-Up) degree is designed for people who want to gain a full undergraduate degree.
The course takes a minimum of nine months and a maximum of three years.
You can study full-time or part-time to fit around existing commitments.
You'll also qualify for our MAPS (Making Achievement Possible at Sunderland) programmes.
These integrate support for study skills and future employability and are provided by our team of full-time Student Academic Advisors.
A typical week for you will include a mix of lectures, seminars, and ‘surgeries’.
You’ll spend significant amounts of time in independent preparation and assignments.
Your progress will be assessed by written exams, case studies, assignments, and reports.
Explore key strategic decisions in a variety of business finance areas and theories in a digital world.
Develop a critical understanding of how large organizations structure their finance.
Understand the management of debt and equity to increase the efficiency of the organization and foster sustainability.
Consider a range of strategic management accounting tools.
Explore the concept of financial decision making within a firm with a view of maximising profits and ensuring a sustainable future for the organisation in a digital world.
Focus on IFRS Standards and how firms implement them in their decision-making.
Research current developments of IFRS Standards and their influence on practice of transnational accounting entities, different jurisdictions, and countries.
Develop your research skills, critical analysis, ability to synthesise information from a wide range of sources, and cover the regulatory framework, preparation, and presentation of financial statements.
Study corporate governance as a discipline from a national perspective.
Consider corporate governance in the context of a digital world.
Examine the impact of weaknesses and failures of corporate governance on companies and on society.
The typical entry requirement is successful completion of an HND or its equivalent as follows: BTEC HND in Finance BTEC HND in Business and Management BTEC Higher National Diploma in Business or related area ABE Advanced Diploma in Business Administration IBAM Advanced Diploma in Business Administration 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant finance, business, or management related discipline If English isn't your first language, please see our English language requirements .
A degree in accounting and financial management is highly relevant to the needs of organisations of all sizes.
As well as opening doors to a rewarding job, it also helps you climb the ladder once you’re inside.
Enhance your personal development and knowledge base through the ‘Contemporary Developments in Business and Management’ module.
Examples of companies that have recruited students from Sunderland include leading names in IT (Microsoft, IBM), consumer goods (P&G, Nike, Adidas), banking (Lloyds Bank), hospitality (Marriott Hotels, Starbucks), and the public sector (NHS).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/nn82-international-tourism--hospitality-top-up:
Indulge in your love of travel.
Explore destinations throughout the world.
Graduate and embark on an exciting career.
This course is for people who want to top-up a Foundation degree in International Tourism and Hospitality Management (or equivalent) to a full honours degree.
It covers both academic theory and practical skills.
We have set modules for top up rather than optional modules.
The students study the following modules; International Hospitality Management, Urban Tourism, Digital Technologies in the Visitor Economy, Strategic Planning for Tourism, Service Quality and Leadership and Management for the Service Sector.
You'll be taught by passionate academics who produce world-leading and internationally excellent research, and throughout your degree you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
You'll also have opportunities to present ideas and information to other students and also develop concepts and analyses within groups.
Gain insight into the characteristics of urban tourism.
The typical entry requirement is successful completion of one of the following: Foundation degree in travel and tourism or a Foundation degree related to international tourism and hospitality management BTEC HND in a subject related to tourism/hospitality 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant subject.
The course content on the BSc (Hons) International Tourism and Hospitality Management (Top-Up) degree reflects our close links with employers.
When you graduate from this course, you’ll be ready to take on a managerial position within the tourism and hospitality industry throughout the world.
Many of our graduates go on to work in managerial roles such as Hotel Manager, Tourism Development Officer, or Resort Office Manager.
Employers include hotels, airlines, travel agencies, events organisers, heritage attractions, Local Authorities, and other public sector bodies.
You’ll have the opportunity to visit a range of tourism and hospitality venues and initiatives.
These visits include the North East, other areas of the UK, and international to destinations such as Dublin, Prague, Barcelona, and New York.
contact the student helpline for further information about studying at the university of sunderland:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/postgraduate-sustainable-tourism:
With the UK and other governments around the world declaring a climate emergency back in 2019, tourism organisations are diversifying their actions to create sustainable growth within their industry.
As such, environmental and regenerative issues will feature heavily within future practices.
This course will enable you to better understand how to protect and exploit fragile socio-economic resources.
You’ll examine international best practice and learn how to shape new sustainable futures.
You'll cover key issues such as ecotourism, challenges to implementing sustainable practices in tourism, and slow tourism with a focus on rural, wellbeing and wellness travel.
The sustainability agenda and change management will also be explored, and the course will develop your theoretical knowledge of models and concepts applicable to real world scenarios.
The main teaching and learning methods employed on the MSc Sustainable Tourism course are a combination of lectures, online lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, fieldwork, laboratory-based work, library-based work, case studies, and most critically, independent study.
This course will incorporate extensive use of the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
Module guides, lecture presentations, guidance notes, glossaries, discussion boards, and other related materials will be available on the VLE.
Your assignments will be submitted online and feedback is normally provided electronically.
Enhance your understanding of how to shape new sustainable futures.
Evaluate some of the key challenges to implementing sustainable practices in tourism.
Develop your theoretical knowledge of models and concepts that are applicable to real world scenarios.
Undertake an extensive research project in an area of interest to you.
Critically apply the knowledge and skills you have gained throughout your course to your project.
Advance your research and methodology skills.
The MSc Sustainable Tourism course is designed to build on the core and transferable skills necessary for future work.
Practical experiences and activities are embedded into the curriculum in order to develop and contribute to your ongoing personal and professional development.
The University Careers Service and regional and national employers are frequently invited to promote employability measures and inform students about work experiences or opportunities.
We have strong links with the local community and modules are informed by the industry and regional and national employers.
Through work experiences and placements, the course offers regional and global business community, public organisations, and others, access to highly motivated and skilled undergraduates dedicated to the industry.
You study a range modules that build on the tourism knowledge, insights and skills required to become successful within the industry.
The course reflects contemporary areas within the tourism industry where you can specialise in your area of interest within your dissertation and tailor this to where you see your future career.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-sustainable-design-manufacture:
MSc Sustainable Design for Manufacture will prepare you for the growing need to minimise waste, reduce environmental impact, conserve energy, and reduce reliance on natural resources when creating products or services.
You’ll develop a well-rounded set of advanced engineering skills that focus on sustainable design and management.
Throughout the course you’ll improve on your existing skills and awareness of mechanisms, such as cradle to grave, upcycling, recycling, life cycle and material flow analysis, material structure, and performance and sustainability relationships.
This course focuses on two key areas, design and management.
You’ll strengthen your knowledge of sustainability in design techniques, as well as the impact that poor design has on the manufacturer, the environment, and society as a whole.
You’ll learn more about leadership and innovation, globalisation, market boundaries, measuring performance, promoting growth through technology, and promoting entrepreneurship for the successful implementation of sustainable design techniques and strategies.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, group work, research, discussion groups, seminars, tutorials, and practical laboratory sessions.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this master's requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment methods include coursework, practical reports, critical reviews of real-world case studies, presentations, viva, and the master's project.
International students may need to apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate to study this course in the UK.
You must apply for this before we can issue you a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) which you will need when applying for a visa.
Read more about the ATAS scheme and find out if you need to apply on the gov.uk website .
This course equips you for a wide range of roles throughout the engineering and manufacturing sector.
This course will prepare you for higher levels of responsibility and leadership in the workplace, society, and beyond.
You'll develop transferrable skills and become adaptable to change.
All of our modules combine teaching and application of innovative problem-solving skills that can be applied in the workplace.
You'll study real-world case studies, which will help you to develop skills that can be applied throughout your career.
Our recent engineering graduates have gone on to work for companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors, Jaguar, Perkins Engines, GSK, Northumbrian Water, Hitachi, and Parametrics Technology.
Other graduates conduct research with major automotive manufacturers such as Ford, Vauxhall, and Nissan.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-advanced-engineering-design:
Develop your knowledge of modern technologies in industrial engineering with our MSc Advanced Engineering Design course.
This course will help you to enhance your existing skills for digital design and smart manufacturing applications.
Using advanced technologies, you’ll look at different ways of reaching solutions before a system or product is developed.
You’ll learn about a range of technical topics, applying your existing knowledge and skills to enhance the efficiency and productivity of manufacturing organisations.
You’ll practice successful implementation of solutions, considering design, development, and testing phases within a project.
In addition to engineering skills, you'll also develop your management and societal awareness skills, focusing on managing the development of modern solutions that address society’s needs.
This course will help you develop into an independent, creative, problem-solving, engineering professional.
Assessment methods include coursework, practical reports, critical reviews of real-world case studies, presentations, viva, and the Masters project.
This course will prepare you for higher levels of responsibility and leadership in the workplace, society and beyond.
You'll study real-world case studies, which will help you to develop problem solving skills that can be applied throughout your career.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/postgraduate-media-production:
Focus on practical skills in media production.
Improve your knowledge and build your CV.
Get involved with high-quality media content, with technical skills that are in demand across the TV and film industries.
MA Media Production will give you the skills, knowledge, experience, and confidence to be employable in the film, TV, and media industry, either in one or multiple professional roles.
The course is made up of four core practical modules and it's been awarded the ScreenSkills Select accreditation.
The course aims to stretch your creativity and maximise your sense of personal fulfilment.
Throughout the course, you'll work on a range of projects and develop your practical production skills in areas including screenwriting, camera, sound, editing, lighting, colour grading, producing, and directing.
Your learning experience will be greatly enhanced by our lecturing team who are experts in their areas of specialism and by our first-class equipment including specialised cameras, sound recording equipment, movement rigs, and professional editing software packages such as Avid Media Composer.
You'll work on group production projects supported by workshops, studio sessions, and tutorials, as well as masterclasses led by industry professionals.
You'll also have the option to learn editing and sustainable production alongside other industry-facing opportunities.
The aim of the course is that you further develop your understanding of film and television production, but at the heart of it is employability.
We want you to work as closely as possible to the production process and techniques you would find in industry.
This combination of creative practice, research, and reflection will enable you to approach things with an open and critical mind, as well as the ability to communicate your ideas in a variety of forms.
Assessment methods include your practical work with supporting reports that place the work in its academic context.
This module will allow you to spend time studying camera, moving camera, lighting, sound, editing, colour grading, and script writing.
You’ll work in small production groups to produce four production assignments.
You and you group will generate the concept, storyboards, script, sound design, and shooting schedule for all productions.
You’ll book production and post-production facilities to achieve these targets.
Working within a production team and having established the nature and purpose of your project, you’ll attend a series of production progress meetings and workshops to formulate an agreed schedule of events to help you effectively complete your identified project.
The production management part of this module is designed to heighten your understanding and skills in the role of production manager.
The online content creation part of the module will allow you to explore how digital convergence changed the way in which we consume and produce video content.
In this module, you’ll produce a major piece of media work, which may be fictional, factual, or a blend of the two.
You’ll be encouraged to work on multi-platform elements of the same project.
You’ll develop the theoretical and practical skills and knowledge gained at the certificate stage, plus the further competencies acquired at the diploma stage.
You’ll also develop an effective, commercially focused concept and production file that relates to marketing and distribution strategies.
We usually require applicants to hold an honours degree in a related discipline.
We may ask you to undertake a short course that covers essential skills and knowledge before you join the main master's course.
Your portfolio We'll ask you to prepare a portfolio of work you've completed so far.
We're not looking for perfection, and we appreciate you may still be developing work.
We would like to see: Completed projects: A variety of work, ideally fully completed film or TV projects.
This could include your module work, freelance commissions, personal work, or competition briefs.
Please provide a video link and description of your role in the production.
Other work: If you've produced any 2D or 3D work, please provide video or photograph links to the work.
If you have a performance background, please include links to any relevant performances you've taken part in.
Proposal: A brief proposal of what you might want to do on this course.
We'll ask you to prepare a portfolio of work you've completed so far.
Previous students on the course have graduated and entered the industry in various roles.
Our alumni are working as directors, producers, camera operators, editors, and videographers.
Some graduates enter the industry as freelancers, others are employed by media companies, and some students set up their own media companies.
MA Media Production is accredited by ScreenSkills who awards the quality mark of the Tick to practice-based degree courses that most effectively provide students with the skills and knowledge required by employers in the screen industries.
View the Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/postgraduate-tourism-hospitality:
Fast-track your career in the tourism and hospitality sectors.
Progress rapidly in one of the world’s largest industries.
In one year, you'll develop the skills and knowledge to advance rapidly in tourism and hospitality management.
This master's course takes a social science approach to tourism and hospitality and combines it with practical skills for the workplace.
You’ll complete theoretical modules ‘Tourism Concepts and Issues’ and ‘Critical Theories and Methods for Tourism, Hospitality and Events’, and in the final phase of the course, you’ll complete a major project personal to your interests and career aspirations.
You’ll be taught by passionate academics who produce world-leading research.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, study visits, and group work.
Your progress will be assessed by essays, presentations, portfolios of evidence, and a dissertation.
Part-time students can expect around three hours of contact time a week.
Gain a solid introduction to hospitality as a global industry, covering key issues such as the complex structure of the industry in terms of ownership and employment practices.
Address the industry’s impacts in terms of triple bottom line indicators (economic, socio-cultural, and environmental).
Explore operational functions of hospitality such as food and beverage.
Focus on an area of tourism or hospitality management of your choice and design and implement a research proposal.
We require you to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) is the name given to the process of gaining credit towards a qualification because of something you've learned in the past.
This master's course equips you with the skills and understanding to progress rapidly in tourism and hospitality management, and potential employment opportunities include hotel and resort management, attractions and museums, destination marketing agencies, tourism companies, restaurant and bar management, and catering management.
Page last updated:  20 March 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/postgraduate-tourism-aviation:
Develop the skills and knowledge to advance rapidly in tourism and hospitality management.
Undertake international field visits and study abroad opportunities.
Start your career in this exciting and growing sector.
In addition to gaining in-depth theoretical knowledge, the specialist focus provided by the Aviation Management Studies module and Tourism and Aviation major project will prepare you for a career in this exciting and growing sector.
We organise a number of field trips and company visits to put your learning into a real-world context.
You’ll be taught by passionate academics who produce world-leading research, and throughout your degree, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
Gain an understanding of aviation as a global industry, including developing and emerging economies.
Cover key issues such as the complex structure of the industry, ownership, employment practices, and operational functions of aviation including airport communications and crisis management.
Explore characteristics of aviation production and consumption such as branding and consumer behaviour.
Investigate the industry’s impact in terms of triple bottom line indicators (economic, socio-cultural, and environmental).
Focus on an area of tourism or aviation management of your choice and design and implement a research proposal.
Please note that part-time study is not available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
This master's course equips you with the skills and understanding to progress rapidly in tourism and hospitality management, and potential employers include attractions and museums, airports, tourism companies, and major airlines.
Previous field trip opportunities have included North East, national throughout the UK, and international including destinations such as Dublin, Prague, Barcelona, and New York.
Contact the Student Helpline for further information about studying at the University of Sunderland

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-computing:
Make the transition to a career in computer science, where salaries in the sector are over a third higher than the national average.
Develop the necessary skills to undertake a Masters-level project and gain expert understanding of the processes and knowledge that are needed to design, implement and support an IT system.
Do you want to work in the IT sector, but don’t have the formal qualifications to make the transition?
This conversion course is designed for those whose first degree is not related to computing, but who now want to move into the industry.
It is designed to fit the current needs of employers with topics that include software development, networks, database systems and web development.
You'll explore the fundamentals of computer science as well as the basic architecture of a modern-day computer system.
Learning alongside other graduates in non-computing disciplines, you'll rapidly extend your knowledge and experience of fundamental computing concepts which are applicable to your future career.
By the end of the course, you'll have an expert understanding of the processes and knowledge that are needed to design, implement and support an IT system.
You'll also be able to make a significant contribution to IT research activities as well as to team-based IT projects.
Methods include individual written reports and research papers, practical assignments and the Masters project.
Study the formal methods of logic, deduction and reasoning which provide the foundations on which the field of computer science was built.
Starting with the birth of counting systems in the pre-Christian era and transitioning through to the present day, explore several key themes including number theory, algorithms, Boolean algebra, logic, state machines, sets, functions, graphs and trees.
Explore current research themes, including an understanding of social, ethical and legal issues in computing and develop your research skills for critical understanding and writing.
Gain significant skills in building complex object oriented software artefacts while using a range of software engineering methodologies.
Define common programming paradigms and the role that software plays in a computer system.
Use an industry standard language and development environment (Python).
Understand how to design, build and develop computer software.
Examine a range of appropriate conceptual design tools in order to effectively specify, visualise and document your software.
Examine the basic architectures of a modern day computer system.
Study the various functions and operations of all the key principle hardware and software elements as well as looking at the many different types of computer systems available.
Get inside real computers and see how the various components and subsystems operate.
Examine the fundamentals and concepts behind computer communications including networking hardware (routers, switches, servers, firewall devices, network physical and logical addressing, network topologies, network structured design, configuration and troubleshooting, protocols, local and wide area network technologies.
Learn the fundamentals of securing networks.
Learn basic web design principals and emerging trends in web development.
Use a variety of web mark-up languages to create pages containing formatted text, hyperlinks, images, lists and tables.
Study web page design and the use of CSS to control type and layout of pages.
Explore the use of multimedia to add animation, video and sound.
Design and develop both traditional and web-based information systems using relational and advanced database technology.
Cover fundamental topics of databases including data models, database selection, database design, security, integrity, transaction management, database performance, client-server and web-based database architectures, and advanced database topics such as database security, Big Data systems, data warehousing, NoSQL systems.
Sunderland’s outstanding IT facilities include the David Goldman Technology Centre, which has hundreds of computers so it’s easy to find a free workstation with the software you need.
We are also an accredited Cisco Academy and have two laboratories packed with Cisco networking equipment.
This course is for applicants who do not have an undergraduate degree in a discipline related to computing.
We usually require at least a 2:2 honours degree in any discipline.
We will also consider applicants with other backgrounds and experience.
We expect you to have basic IT skills.
This course features relevant work experience that will enhance your skills, build up a valuable network of contacts and boost your employability.
On completing this course you will be equipped as a skilled professional with essential up-to-date knowledge in computer networking and mobile communication technologies.
You will also have advanced knowledge of systems development, including web-based and database systems development.
Our graduates have gone on to work in roles such as PHP Web Developer, Solutions Developer and JavaScript Developer, while others have continued their studies and undertaken PhDs and other research degrees.
Potential employment includes roles in:
As part of the course, you will undertake a project solving a real world problem.
Page last updated:  19 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/public-allied-health/postgraduate-public-health:
To apply for the full time course starting in January 2025 click apply now.
Improve the lives of others by preventing and managing health problems.
Make a real difference to people’s health and help them to live longer, healthier and more fulfilling lives.
Focus on areas that match your interests and skills.
This course mixes taught elements with independent projects.
We support you with guidance and inspiration, and you will negotiate a final project that matches your personal interests.
You will analyse the global and national policy, and its practical implications, and have an opportunity to study an area of healthcare in depth.
Public health covers three key domains: Health improvement, which includes monitoring specific diseases, risk factors and inequalities; Improving services, which includes audit, evaluation, service planning and efficiency; and Health protection, which includes responses to infectious diseases and environmental hazards.
Places are available to study this course in April at our London campus.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, workshops, tutorials, self-directed learning and e-learning.
Assessment methods include coursework, projects, poster and oral presentations, timed tests and exams.
Sunderland has excellent facilities that have been boosted by multi-million pound redevelopments.
At the same time, the University is fully plugged into relevant health care and industry organisations, with strong links and an exchange of ideas and people.
We require an undergraduate degree with a classification of 2:2 or above, in a health-related subject such as Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy or Dentistry.
We will also consider a degree in one of the following areas alongside work experience: Microbiology, Chemistry, Veterinary Science, Social Work, Psychology, Botanical Sciences and Agriculture.
The work experience must be in a healthcare role and can include health promotion, and public health advice.
You must upload your CV and include your personal statement as part of your application.
Please note that part-time study is not available to international students who require a Student visa to study in the UK.
The increased emphasis on wellness is leading to new types of employment in helping people live longer, healthier and more fulfilling lives.
On completing this course, you will be equipped with the skills and knowledge to work at an advanced level in line with current health legislation and policy.
Public Health professionals work in a range of community health areas such as primary health care teams, public health units, drug and alcohol settings, and health and social care settings.
There are also opportunities in epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental health, health administration, health education and health policy.
Potential roles include becoming a manager in the NHS, local authorities and non-statutory sectors.
For example, at the top end of the scale, there are roles as Director of Public Health.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences/undergraduate-foundation-sports-coaching:
Combine academic study with work-based learning in this two year Sports Coaching Foundation Degree.
Study at a local partner college, undertake work-based learning opportunities in both years and have the option to ‘top-up’ to a full bachelors degree with a third year of study at the University of Sunderland.
You can then 'top-up' to a full honours degree at the University of Sunderland.
Foundation Degrees differ from honours degrees because they are designed with the help of employers to reflect the needs of industry and commerce.
They usually take two years to complete, compared to the three or four years of most honours degrees.
Foundation degrees combine academic study with work-based learning and you have the opportunity to learn in the workplace as well as the classroom.
Teaching methods include practical sessions, lectures, discussions, case studies and workshops.
Our offer of a place will take into account any relevant employment experience.
Applicants without formal qualifications may qualify for entry through relevant work-based experience.
The annual fee for this course is £7,777 if you are from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
Our courses are continually updated so that they are relevant to employers' needs.
This helps make sure you are ready for a new role or promotion.
There is a natural progression from this Foundation Degree to the final year of BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education at the University of Sunderland.
If you decide to follow this route, you can gain an honours degree with just one more year of full-time study.
Potential employers include sports and exercise clubs, recreation services, local authorities, and schools and colleges.
You will have the opportunity to undertake work-based learning opportunities in both years of the course either at the college or with a local employer.
They're great opportunities to make connections with potential employers and build up your CV.
Page last updated:  10 February 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/customised-awards-scheme:
Customise your degree to fit your personal career aims.
Explore a unique selection of subjects to enhance your academic knowledge.
Gain a qualification that closely matches your particular needs.
The Customised Awards Scheme (CAS) is an innovative scheme which allows you to design your own degree to suit your career aspirations or personal interests.
It's available at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels and allows you to specialise in a subject or a combination of subjects where a named single honours doesn't exist.
Each course of study is individually constructed to ensure that it has academic integrity and coherence.
The title of the award can be individually negotiated or you can be awarded a general degree in Customised Studies.
Teaching and assessment will be defined by the range of subjects undertaken and presented in your subject specifications.
Depending upon the range of modules taken, you'll be exposed to a variety of teaching, learning, and assessment methods as determined by the individual module descriptors.
Core and optional modules are negotiated for each individual subject.
For undergraduate students taking a degree course at Stage 1, there's a CAS core module – Skills for Success in CSP/CAS, or subject specific equivalent.
Where students are required to take this module, this is delivered by a combination of class taught sessions, use of the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), email correspondence, and face-to-face sessions to allow students to assess their personal, academic, and career goals and to facilitate the achievement of those goals.
This is a pass/fail module and the assessment consists of a portfolio of formative and summative work produced during the module.
The Scheme will include the following in full-time and part-time modes:
The location of your course and the facilities available to you will depend on the subjects and modules you choose.
For more information, see the course pages of the subjects/modules you're interested in.
Due to the nature of the Scheme, the admissions requirements are flexible and negotiable.
However, degree routes will normally request the minimum qualifications for entry which are at least a grade C at GCSE in English and mathematics or Level 3 key skills qualifications, with 102 UCAS Tariff points or equivalent.
Subject specific admission requirements will be defined by the Director of Study.
Students with non-traditional qualifications and work experience are welcome to discuss entry with the Scheme leader.
For other routes within the Scheme, students will be admitted at the discretion of the Scheme leader.
The tuition fees for this course will vary depending on whether you wish to take an undergraduate degree, a postgraduate degree, or individual modules.
Typically, annual, full-time fees are:
Contact the Programme Leader to discuss your personal circumstances nik.clarke@sunderland.ac.uk .
CAS graduates are well placed to enter a wide range of careers, having had the opportunity to develop a range of transferable skills and qualities that employers value.
Contact the Programme Leader for further information about studying this course:
nik.clarke@sunderland.ac.uk
View Programme Specifications for the Faculty of Education and Society

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/computer-systems-engineering-sc:
ISMT - Biratnagar
Stage 1
Course starts: 06 October 2025 Apply now
ISMT - Chitwan
ISMT - Kathmandu
ISMT - Pokhara
ISMT - Butwal
Gain the essential skills and knowledge needed to success in the exciting field of computer science and benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of computing in your own country.
This course will equip you with the essential skills and knowledge needed to succeed in the exciting field of computer science.
You'll start by diving into the fundamentals, covering programming, software engineering, computer architecture, and networks.
This solid foundation will prepare you for the exciting specialisations you'll explore in the later stages.
You will then delve deeper into specialised areas like database systems, agile development, cybersecurity, and secure networks.
You'll have the chance to work on real-world scenarios, building your practical skills and collaborating with your peers, in a group project.
Finally, you'll explore cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence, advanced cybersecurity, data technologies, and mobile development.
This will give you a competitive edge and prepare you for a wide range of rewarding career paths in the computer science industry.
Our courses delivered at study centres share the same ethos, material, and approach as those delivered at Sunderland itself.
So this course is a way to gain the benefits of an education from our University without having to move to Sunderland.
Like all courses from the University of Sunderland, this one-year course develops a blend of theory and practice.
It will ‘top-up’ your existing knowledge and skills to the level of an honours degree.
Please contact your Study Centre for the duration and mode of this course.
Teaching methods include lectures, tutorials, seminars, and group work.
Teaching on this part-time course takes place on evenings and at weekends.
The full-time course is taught during the day.
Please contact International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) for information on facilities:
International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) +977 1 4485278 / +977 1 4485279 info@ismt.edu.np
Kathmandu Campus Tinkune Gairigaun Kathmandu Nepal
Please contact the Study Centre directly for information on facilities.
Their contact details can be found by clicking the tabs on the left.
Please contact the study centre for more information on their specific requirements and equivalent qualifications from outside the UK.
Please contact the Study Centre for details of the fees for this course.
Salaries in computing can be very attractive and our course is directly relevant to the needs of employers.
At the end of the course, you can apply for further study such as MSc Information Technology Management via Study Centres .
Page last updated:  19 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/registered-nurse-degree-apprenticeship:
Learn from a team with a wealth of experience in nursing practice, research and scholarship and learning and teaching.
Demonstrate Nursing and Midwifery Council standards of proficiency.
Develop the skills and knowledge needed to deliver compassionate and competent person-centred care.
There are three different strands to the apprenticeship which are Adult, Mental Health, and Learning Disability.
The programme will enable demonstration of achievement of proficiency against the NMC seven platforms and two annexes:
This apprenticeship curriculum is based on the definition of work-based learning as activities that occur in workplaces (clinical practice environments) and that involve an employer assigning a worker or an apprentice meaningful job tasks to develop his or her skills, knowledge, and readiness for work and to support entry or advancement in a particular career field.
In this instance, this is to NMC Registered Nurse status.
Work-based learning (WBL) extends into the workplace through on-the-job education and training, mentoring, and other supports for a continuum of lifelong learning and skill development.
These activities will support the attainment of academic and PSR requirements.
Apprentices are assessed through multiple means to demonstrate practical skills, underpinning theory and knowledge.
This includes Simulated Clinical exams, timed written exams, coursework, essays and the assessment of competency in practice.
There are three different routes to the apprenticeship which are Adult, Mental Health, and Learning Disability.
The modules for each strand are as follows:
Gain the fundamental skills and knowledge required for professional practice when working with patients and their families and carers.
Develop evidence-based practice and acknowledge the need for self-awareness in relation to others, considering the impact of individual contribution to the delivery of care.
Explore topics based around the principles of nursing practice adopted by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) which directly inform levels of expectation of the registered nurse.
Focus on the concepts of responsibility in nursing practice such as dignity in care, risk management, teamwork, and leadership.
Explore the nature of knowledge and debate the ethical issues underpinning nursing and healthcare practice, including consent and risk management.
Examine a range of research methods and learn how to integrate this research into practice, understanding the importance and relevance of service user and care involvement in the design, delivery, and evaluation of research in healthcare.
Enhance your knowledge and the application of nursing practice interventions, enabling the provision of safe and compassionate evidence-based physical and psychological care.
Learn to effectively assess, plan, and implement care, demonstrating a range of nursing interventions.
Develop your skills and knowledge to formulate a nursing plan of care and undertake observations and clinical interventions with less direct supervision.
Use practice learning safely and effectively, facilitated through your understanding and use of reflection, clinical supervision, and feedback.
Develop your understanding of inter-professional working, enhancing your leadership knowledge and skills when working with and within diverse professional teams.
Consider the roles and responsibilities of all professionals within the context of your own field of nursing practice, alongside the values of teamwork in inter-professional care.
Explore carer and user perspectives in inter-professional care settings to illuminate personal experiences.
Examine ethical issues in the context of inter-professional working to gain insight into challenges faced from a variety of professional viewpoints.
Study the impact of information technology and healthcare issues in transcultural healthcare provision.
Undertake a systems-based approach to anatomy, physiology, psychology, and microbiology using patient journeys as illustrations.
Gain the ability to communicate complex medical terminology to patients in an understandable manner.
Develop your understanding of the physiological and psychological processes and anatomical and cognitive structures of the human body.
Learn how to apply a working knowledge of these elements to clinical scenarios in nursing practice.
Explore models of reflective practice together with an overview of inter-professional working and the need for capacity building, acquiring insight into lived patient experience.
Gain an appreciation of the historical context of nursing and the future vision of the discipline, recognising the professional identity of the nurse and their contribution to safe and effective provision as advocated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Learn how to define the key features of person-centred care and gain a fundamental understanding of the need for self-awareness.
Become numerically competent, aware of the need to evidence-base all decision making in health, and a capable and compassionate communicator.
Build on your knowledge and application of nursing to practise in a range of clinical settings, incorporating experience of care provision across the lifespan.
Biological, psychological, and sociological theory in the context of person-centred care will be embedded into your learning.
Focus on individuals with complex needs with a specific emphasis on the concept of comorbidity and the implications for care this entails.
Explore pharmacological principles in detail, bringing issues from current practice to critically analyse the pathological, social, and political factors affecting healthcare.
Identify and examine skills for rehabilitation and acute care, critically considering the evidence base to support their practice.
Demonstrate your problem-solving and decision-making in discipline-based enquiry by engaging in the production of an independent, negotiated project that analyses an aspect of your discipline.
Explore the evidence base of nursing practice, the range and hierarchy of evidence, and that which is appropriate for healthcare issues.
Develop your ability to make informed use of published research and other sources of evidence and information to apply findings to enhance practice.
This course uses the full range of facilities available at the University to enhance student learning and simulate practice where necessary.
For programmes delivered off site we use the facilities offered by our partners.
The entry requirements for the apprenticeship programme are non-standard.
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) which outlines the prior healthcare experience and academic study will be considered at the point of application.
It may be possible to step onto the programme at different points from year 1 to year 4 dependent on qualifications and prior care experience.
As an example, for admission to the five-year pathway, the following is required:
This is an apprenticeship.
The tuition fees are included in the overall fee which is arranged via the employer and the University.
The opportunities to apply ‘classroom/theoretical’ learning in real-world situations through work-based learning, will be encountered with support from allocated Apprentice Educational Supervisors in Practice (AESiP) which re-enforces knowledge gained in the classroom and enables you to build your skills.
Simone Bedford (Principal Lecturer, University of Sunderland) "I knew I wanted to be a nurse from a very early age, but it ended up being a second career for me and I have never looked back.
People say nursing is rewarding, but what does that actually mean?
It means that you can make a difference to someone’s life, to make them comfortable, to help them get better, to offer sound advice, to be there in their time of need."
For any employers or staff interested in finding out more about our nursing apprenticeship programme, please contact:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/higher-doctorate:
If you are applying for Glass and Ceramics, click apply now.
Course starts: 01 October 2025 Apply now
If you are applying for Media and Communications, click apply now.
If you are applying for Nursing and Health, click apply now.
If you are applying for Pharmacy, click apply now.
If you are applying for Tourism, click apply now.
A Higher Doctorate is awarded for published work of the highest quality.
We ask candidates to submit a collection of their published work and a commentary that demonstrates its impact on the subject.
Your application should be supported by a professor from the University of Sunderland.
There is a high level of scrutiny for all applications.
The Higher Doctorate Panel includes the University’s Vice–Chancellor, and the examiners will be leading authorities in your field of study.
The University of Sunderland awards four Higher Doctorates:
Doctor of Letters (DLitt) Doctor of Science (DSc) Doctor of Technology (DTech) Doctor of Laws (LLD)
Higher Doctorates are rarely awarded and they are elite qualifications that will mark you out as an outstanding contributor to your field.
Applicants will typically be full-time members of the research staff of the University, or Visiting Professors, with at least three years of service.
Applicants can also be people from outside the University who are leading authorities in their field.
In this case, you should have a sponsor who is a professor on the full-time teaching staff of the University of Sunderland.
You should have completed a Masters degree at least four years ago, or an honours degree at least seven years ago.
We ask applicants to write a statement of no more than 1,000 words that outlines the significance of your contribution to knowledge and the impact within your chosen area.
If you are applying for a student loan to finance part-time study, the loan must be taken over the maximum permitted time of six years.
If you are applying for a student loan to finance full-time study, the loan must be taken over the maximum permitted time of four years.
For more information please contact the Graduate School at graduate.school@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  15 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/phd-published-work:
If you are applying for Art and Design, click apply now.
If you are applying for Business and Management, click apply now.
If you are applying for Computing, click apply now.
If you are applying for Culture, click apply now.
If you are applying for Engineering, click apply now.
If you are applying for Education, click apply now.
If you are applying for Law, click apply now.
If you are applying for Media and Communication, click apply now.
If you are applying for Social Science, click apply now.
A PhD by Published or Creative Work is designed for individuals with an existing portfolio of published work addressing a central research question.
This degree will be awarded to a candidate who has critically investigated an approved topic and demonstrated an understanding of research methods appropriate to the chosen field.
A submission for PhD by Published or Creative Work may comprise academic papers, chapters, monographs, scholarly editions of texts, creative practice, artefacts, or curatorial production.
A submission for PhD by Published or Creative Works may be awarded on the basis of existing published work or creative output that shows evidence of originality and independent critical judgment at the level appropriate for the award.
All work should normally have been published in the last ten years and be traceable in publicly available databases such as catalogues and must be accessible to scholars or other interested persons.
The work submitted must have been subjected to peer review by the relevant academic community.
There is no defined number of publications but candidates need to ensure that the range of publications demonstrates that their work forms a coherent and significant contribution to knowledge.
This should be of an acceptable national, or preferably international, standing.
For a substantial proportion of all the publications submitted, the candidate must be the sole or senior author.
If your application is successful, you will be assigned one or more supervisors who will advise on which of your publications should form your final submission to be examined and how your commentary should be written.
The commentary (usually between 10,000 and 20,000 words) describes the aims of the research you have undertaken to produce your publications, incorporates a critical discussion of the impact of your work and will be examined through an oral defence.
All candidates should hold at least an honours degree (first or upper second class), or equivalent.
To apply, please complete the online application form (see the Apply Now button), together with the following documents to be uploaded through the application portal, see below: Details of Published or Creative works Statement of Authorship - This statement is made by collaborating researcher(s) confirming the contribution you have made to the research.
This statement is only required if all or parts of the work are the result of collaborative research.
Please arrange for the collaborators to complete the pro-forma if this applies to your work Qualification certificates Birth certificate or personal details page of the passport Curriculum Vitae Without all of the above documents, we will not be able make you an offer on this programme.
In addition, in the ‘personal statement’ section of the online application form, please provide a statement of no more than 1000 words outlining: How and in what respect the work has made a significant and coherent contribution of knowledge.
The impact within its discipline The methodologies used An appropriate contextualisation of the research Clear indication of any parts of the work which may have been carried out in collaboration with other parties/authors Duration of programme: Minimum period of registration is six months and maximum two years.
The intake dates are 1 October, 1 February and 1 May each academic year.
Without all of the above documents, we will not be able make you an offer on this programme.
Duration of programme: Minimum period of registration is six months and maximum two years.
Fees are £8,000.
There is pressure on teaching staff at universities to demonstrate that they have higher qualifications than those whom they are teaching.
A PhD is often required for academic posts in research-intensive institutions.
A doctorate is becoming an increasingly common requirement for recruitment and promotion in university teaching roles.
A PhD also adds credibility in applications for research funding.
Doctorates are now held by at least eight out of ten full-time teaching staff in top institutions, based on data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency.
The PhD by Existing Published or Creative Work is a fast track for you to gain doctorate-level recognition for work that you have already done.
It is therefore well suited to academic staff who would like to develop their careers.
More broadly, the achievement of a doctorate demonstrates your ability to make a major contribution to the development of new ideas, techniques and approaches.
There is a strong association between successful postgraduate study and professional employment, according to the Higher Education Policy Institute.
Page last updated:  10 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/doctor-philosophy-phd:
Course starts: 01 February 2026 Apply now
If you are applying for Medicine, click apply now.
If you are applying for Psychology, click apply now.
If you are applying for Sciences, click apply now.
If you are applying for Sport, click apply now.
A PhD is “probably the most internationally transferable qualification” according to the Higher Education Policy Institute.
You will critically investigate your chosen topic in great depth, with support, guidance and encouragement from our supervisory team.
Crucially, your investigation should result in the creation and interpretation of knowledge which extends the forefront of your discipline.
It should make an original contribution to knowledge.
Increasingly, a doctorate is an essential requirement for recruitment and promotion in university teaching roles.
More broadly, a PhD is a life-changing programme that trains you to think at a deep level while you become an expert on a particular topic.
It is quite possible that you will end up knowing more about that topic than almost anyone else in the country.
The normal entry requirement for a research degree is a UK honours degree (first or upper second class), a UK master's degree, or a qualification that is regarded as equivalent.
We will consider candidates with other qualifications, looking at evidence of academic ability such as published work.
If English is not your first language, you will need a British Council International English Language Testing System (IELTS) overall score of 6.5, with at least 6.0 in each component: reading, writing, listening, and speaking (or equivalent).
Research proposal You will be asked to write a 2-3 page research proposal that specifies the: Aims of your research Rationale for the research question(s) Proposed methodology and techniques for analysis Provisional time plan for the research Any pre-application and application enquiries should be made to Student Admin at admissions.graduateschool@sunderland.ac.uk .
You will be asked to write a 2-3 page research proposal that specifies the: Aims of your research Rationale for the research question(s) Proposed methodology and techniques for analysis Provisional time plan for the research Any pre-application and application enquiries should be made to Student Admin at admissions.graduateschool@sunderland.ac.uk .
Any pre-application and application enquiries should be made to Student Admin at admissions.graduateschool@sunderland.ac.uk .
We charge the following annual fees while you are studying and researching for your degree.
If you are from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled:
International candidates:
Tier 1 £4,700 Home/£14,500 International per year.
This applies to the vast majority of research students who do not require specialist equipment.
Tier 2 £5,200 Home/£15,000 International per year.
This applies to research students where there will be some additional expenses and the use of equipment.
Tier 3 £6,200 Home/£17,000 International per year.
This applies to laboratory and clinical research students i.e.
in sciences where there are consumables.
International scholarship
All full-time, on campus international research candidates at postgraduate level are awarded a £900 scholarship per year of study.
You do not have to apply for this scholarship; it is automatically applied to reduce the annual fees specified above.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/master-philosophy-mphil:
If you are applying for Sport and Exercise Science, click apply now.
During your MPhil, we will train you in rigorous research methodologies that are transferable to many different careers.
Our Postgraduate Research Development programme allows you to learn alongside other candidates, building up a network of potential collaborators in research projects.
There is no doubt that research degrees require persistence and dedication.
At the same time, they are excellent opportunities to develop your critical skills and high-level thinking.
Most important of all, they allow you to focus on what you find interesting and to follow your personal research interests.
The normal entry requirement for a research degree is a UK honours degree (first or upper second class) or a UK master's degree or a qualification which is regarded as equivalent.
If English is not your first language, you will need a British Council International English Language Testing System (IELTS) overall score of 6.5, with at least 6.0 in each component: reading, writing, listening and speaking (or equivalent).
Research proposal You will be asked to write a 2-3 page research proposal that specifies the: Aims of your research Rationale for the research question(s) Proposed methodology and techniques for analysis Provisional time plan for the research Is your qualification not displaying here?
You will be asked to write a 2-3 page research proposal that specifies the: Aims of your research Rationale for the research question(s) Proposed methodology and techniques for analysis Provisional time plan for the research Is your qualification not displaying here?
We charge annual fees while you are studying and researching for your degree.
All full-time, on-campus international research candidates at postgraduate level are awarded a £900 scholarship per year of study.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/performing-arts/postgraduate-modern-music-industries:
Develop skills while building a portfolio to become an entrepreneur in the music industry.
Discover how to network, communicate, and lead others in musical projects.
Delve into a chosen area of study that will prepare you to carry out research in a professional capacity.
On our MA Modern Music Industries course, you’ll develop your skills in the music industry to a level where you’re ready to interact with professional companies and industry experts, outside of an educational setting.
Learn how to build a portfolio career as an entrepreneur within the sector to a master's level, and discover how to network, communicate, and lead others in musical projects.
You’ll research a chosen area of the music industry that you’re invested in, which will not only give you a deep critical understanding of your practice, but a grounding in research, that can prepare you to carry out research in a professional capacity.
Turn your practice into a set of transferrable skills, by developing your self-efficacy which will allow you to deliver masterclasses, teach others, and work with respected and established enterprises in the music and culture industry.
This course allows you to lead on your artistic progression by focusing on your vocational interests in the field.
You'll be taught in small group lectures and seminars but will also receive 1-1 mentoring in your chosen area of practice.
There'll be industry liaison guest lectures and guidance to prepare you to work as a self-employed entrepreneur for music-related companies.
Assessment will be mostly practical, requiring submissions of recordings and products, supplemented with evaluations of your work.
The course requires a professional standard of practical engagement in the music industry, as you'll set, plan, and create your product, events, and collaborations.
You'll be assessed on your ability to pitch, present, and critically think about music industry practice.
This will be assessed to an industry standard.
An introduction to research methodologies and how research informs practice and vice versa.
This module will teach you the underpinning principles behind carrying out research, such as types of research and research ethics.
Plan, deliver, and evaluate a one-hour masterclass on your chosen discipline with programme notes that can be consumed both by experts and the public.
You'll develop the ability to earn money by demonstrating your knowledge and critical understanding of your chosen practice.
Host an event to market a musical product with evidence of collaboration with industry professionals or community and social groups, such as film and television companies, charities, social enterprises, labels, agents, pluggers or other musicians.
This can be an entirely commercial venture, can be a social collaboration with a choir, or a community brief from a council or group.
Create your own music and develop a method of communicating musical direction to a group of musicians that will perform your music, led by you.
Develop compositional techniques and a composition of 20 minutes of music performance or a recording with clear notation, lead sheets, or classical music notation.
A research project that identifies a gap in the market for a modern music industry entrepreneur.
Inform the creation of a commercially consumable product and research presentation, or report addressing the theory behind and market forces involved in producing and monetizing the product.
You can use your research to create a commissioned or funded product, that could be funded, and addresses a social function such as community or social betterment.
Entry will require a 2:1 undergraduate degree in a relevant music, media, or arts degree, plus approval of a research avenue by the course leader and directors.
A 2:2 will be considered on the condition of an outstanding professional portfolio or research proposal.
You’ll need to attend an interview and have a research proposal outline.
Please note, this course is not open to international students.
You'll build a portfolio of work throughout this course which can be used to attract employment, not just in the music industry but in the other sectors that are increasingly valuing creativity and innovation.
The industry research will encourage you to identify alternative revenue streams such as funding, teaching, working as a technician, or in other areas of the industry that may have been ignored.
We have a full programme of visiting professionals that give masterclasses to our students.
We're also involved in the curation of stages at various festivals and events in the region and across the country that our students can become involved in.
Our network of music industry contacts can also be used for placements and visits to events and experiences.
Page last updated:  28 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-applied-project-management:
Take your first step to becoming a project management professional and join one of the world’s fastest growing professions.
Develop a well-rounded set of project and general management skills.
Undertake a professional placement and put your new skills into practice.
This MSc Project Management course is designed to teach people from any discipline or degree background, unlike other project management courses.
The taught modules ensure you develop a well-rounded set of project and general management skills.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to undertake a professional placement (subject to availability), to develop a professional practice project, working alongside industry.
This will allow you to put your skills into practice, enhancing your employability.
You'll also have the opportunity to undertake a placement and develop your professional skills, working on a real-world project or in a commercial, professional or industrial environment.
The professional practice/placement element will be assessed by a portfolio of evidence gathered during your work, regular logs of your progress and a final presentation or video.
Explore how organisations and systems can be understood to help facilitate their design, change and management.
Investigate various methods of organisational analysis and modelling, including both hard and soft-system modelling.
Work on real-world problems in industry, academia, or our Digital Incubator, developing technical, research, and professional skills.
Over 15 weeks, you'll gain experience, enhance your employability, and produce a master's project proposal.
Applicants will need to secure a placement that will be supported by the School of Engineering, Employability and Enterprise Hub, and placement support colleagues.
Where placements cannot be sourced you will either undertake a professional practice placement or transfer to MSc Project Management .
Professional practice placement
By studying MSc Applied Project Management you will benefit from undertaking a professional practice placement.
This opportunity will provide you with experience of working in a real-world context where you can apply the academic knowledge and skills you have acquired on the course and develop the abilities, skills and behaviours associated with work at this level.
You'll be supported to secure a placement by the School of Engineering, Sunderland Futures and Placement Support colleagues, subject to availability.
If a placement cannot be sourced, you'll have the option to transfer to MSc Project Management or to develop professional practice projects, working alongside our industry links.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-applied-data-science:
Join this fast-growing area of computer science.
Study the fundamentals of data science, data mining and machine learning.
Undertake a placement and put your new skills into practice.
In addition, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a placement (subject to availability) and put your skills into practice, enhancing your employability.
You can find your own placements or develop professional practice projects, working in our Digital Incubator or research-based projects with one of our academic research teams.
Placements
The MSc in Applied Data Science provides an opportunity to undertake a placement related to data science and helping students develop their skills, turning theory into practice.
Read more about what this means in our .
Tackle real-world problems within an organisation.
Develop an enterprising solution to a problem, either of your own devising or to answer a business need through the Digital Incubator.
Alternatively, work on a research project with an academic colleague.
Underpin the project with a literature review that is a conceptual framework of your study – a systematic synthesis of concepts, assumptions, expectations, beliefs, and theories that supports and informs your research.
We usually require applicants to hold an honours degree (2:2 or above) or equivalent in a computing or related non-computing discipline (mathematics, statistics, engineering) or an honours degree (2:1 or above) in relevant non-computing or related degree (degree which has numeracy included and/or application of big data as a significant theme).
Students who have five years relevant business or industry experience will also be considered.
This course provides you with the opportunity to undertake professional practice by either undertaking a placement in an industry organisation (subject to availability) or undertaking professional or relevant, research-based practice work.
The placement will allow you to develop your research, knowledge and technical skills, and will improve your interpersonal, team working and project management skills, boosting your academic performance and future employability prospects.
We cannot guarantee external placements for all students but will support you in securing these and will offer professional or research-based practice projects if an industrial placement is not possible.
Page last updated:  16 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-applied-cybersecurity:
Study topics such as network security and cybersecurity in organisations.
In addition to the taught modules, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a placement (subject to availability) and put your skills into practice, enhancing your employability.
Assessment is 100% coursework-based with no exams, with methods including written reports and research papers, practical assignments and the Masters project.
The placement element of the course will be assessed by a portfolio of evidence gathered during your work, regular logs of your progress, progress reviews and a final presentation or video.
There is a high demand for cybersecurity professionals.
On completion of this course, you’ll progress in some of the most attractive fields and industries as we prepare you for a range of cyber security jobs.
Advance your career in a wide range of roles, including information security manager, security analyst, security architect, security administrator, incident responder, security engineer, security auditor, security software developer and vulnerability assessor.
Graduates studying Cybersecurity have gone on to secure employment with a range of companies and organisations including: GCHQ, (ISC)2, Accenture, HPE, BT, PWC, SAGE, Sunderland City Council, Northumbria Police, Durham Constabulary, and the Cybersecurity Workforce Alliance.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-applied-computing:
Make the transition to a career in computer science.
Explore the fundamentals of computer science as well as the basic architecture of a modern-day computer system.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-placement:
Take advantage of a 12-month taught course followed by a 12-month work placement, facilitated by the University.
The MBA (Professional Practice) is a taught course which incorporates a 12-month work placement.
Securing a work placement is a competitive process and we'll help you with the selection process from application to interview.
We'll support you with securing a placement, but should you be unsuccessful in the selection process, we'll arrange a transfer to the generic MBA course to study a Postgraduate Certificate in Human Resource Management or a Postgraduate Certificate in Digital Marketing and Analytics as an additional qualification at no cost, completing both courses within the two-year period.*
Our dedicated faculty placements team is well-connected with regional and national employers and, each year, assists students in applying for roles in areas including marketing, human resources, finance, operations, and supply-chain positions.
The University will support your efforts in securing a placement or work experience.
Our students have secured placements with companies including Nissan, Caterpillar, Fujitsu, Network Rail, and White Lodging Services, as well as small entrepreneurial firms in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors.
*The modules completed in furtherance of this Certificate won't contribute to the assessment of the MBA and you may only complete the certificate as well as the MBA over the two-year period that was the expected duration of the course on which you were originally.
We require a relevant degree or equivalent professional qualification.
You'll be required to attend a short Skype interview as part of the application process.
MBA with 12-month placement (24-month overall duration).
We provide a robust personal tutoring system, setting academic goals and working with you to keep this on track.
We pride ourselves on Sunderland being a friendly and sociable place to study – many long-lasting friendships and networks are formed within our Sunderland MBA cohorts

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/marketing-placement:
Study a course accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Take advantage of a 12-month taught course which incorporates a work placement facilitated by the University.
MA Marketing (Professional Practice) is a taught course which incorporates a 12-month work placement facilitated by the University, enabling you to utilise and demonstrate your skills and knowledge in a work environment.
Our dedicated faculty placements team is well-connected with regional and national employers and every year, assists students in applying for roles in areas including marketing, human resources, finance, operations, and supply-chain positions.
Securing a work placement is a competitive process and the University will support your efforts in securing a placement or work experience.
The MA Marketing (Professional Practice) course is 240 credits to reflect the additional work experience you'll undertake prior to the completion of your final project.
The teaching methods used on the course include lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops, class discussions, and case study exercises.
You'll have a Peer Learning Support Group (PLSG) where you'll be able to work with other students, and support each other.
Your progress will be assessed with written assignments, presentations, portfolios of evidence, and time-constrained assignments.
The assessment for the professional practice module is the completion of a professional placement project that includes a reflective report on your personal development.
As part of the course, you'll undertake a 40-week work placement during which time you'll work on a placement project, as well as a reflective statement and the personal portfolio.
Following the placement, a period of time is incorporated to enable you to formulate and edit the project work.
You'll obtain a placement either through your own endeavours (subject to the approval of the module leader) or by successfully acquiring one of the opportunities sourced by the Faculty’s placement team.
Students who don't obtain a suitable placement will be required to transfer to the generic MA Marketing course and study a Postgraduate Certificate in Management Studies as an additional qualification at no extra cost and complete both courses within the two-year period.
Undertake a practical case study whereby a digital marketing consultant role is adopted.
Engage critically with current controversies and debates in consumer behaviour.
Explore key issues that have resulted in the transformation of consumers, leading to altered behaviours within a digital and sustainability aware environment.
Select a topic from your chosen specialist marketing field and conduct in-depth research on the current issues affecting consumers.
Enhance your understanding of global marketing, including the selling and distribution of products and services in countries around the world.
Develop the skills to identify, research and evaluate consumer data and make application to contemporary models that assist marketers with the segmentation and targeting of digital consumers.
Design appropriate and creative communications with the aim of being heard and understood in a crowded marketplace.
Enhance your skills in creating content and copy suited to the campaign tools, media, and audience.
On graduating, you’ll be ready to step into a senior marketing role in a wide range of industries.
As a marketing professional, you could work in-house for an organisation, or find a role in a specialist marketing agency.
Our graduates have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter and Gamble, Merck and Co, Barclays, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterCoopers, and Adidas.
Our guest speaker programme enables you to learn from business professionals, which can be very useful if you’re not sure what career to pursue when you graduate.
Past guest speakers include Divine Chocolate’s Head of Sales and Marketing and Sunderland Football Club’s CEO.
In addition, you'll have the opportunity to compete against students at other universities at the annual Greggs Marketing challenge competition and get practical marketing experience working with live client briefs at Sunderland Marketing Hub , a facility that brings together students, businesses, and marketing academics at the University to work on real marketing projects.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/med-health-professions:
If you are applying for this course from within the UK/EU, click apply now
Develop your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional.
Study topics relevant to educating tomorrow’s health professionals.
Gain employment in Higher Education institutions or clinical teaching settings.
Later modules cover leading course provision and dealing with student success, retention, attainment and managing complex issues including fitness to practise.
By undertaking this master's degree, you'll examine an aspect of pedagogical practice in detail using educational research methods.
This part-time course uses a mix of lectures, group-based seminars and interactive workshop activities, and action learning sets.
Online quizzes and self-directed learning will also support your student learning experience.
You'll be assessed using multiple methods reflecting the underpinning principles of universal design for learning, including essay format, a spoken individual presentation, written module document and verbal defence, reflective account, presentation, written research proposal, and an independent project report.
Explore academic practice and gain an overview of learning theories, practical classroom teaching and learning approaches, while also covering a range of pedagogical approaches.
Identify both why you are taking an approach as well as having the ability to implement, adapt and evaluate contemporary approaches to health professions education.
Gain an insight into the theory behind the utilisation of signature pedagogies and approaches to learning and teaching such as problem, case or team-based learning and develop skills and confidence in delivering learning using these methods.
Explore the principles and practice of conducting educational research, including research design; research paradigms; data collection, management and analysis; use of ICT tools and resources; conducting literature surveys, writing for the academic research community; the politics and ethics of educational research; epistemological and theoretical perspectives; and current debates relating to research.
You will be provided with the opportunity to generate and evaluate your own research tools, and to search for and engage in depth with relevant critical literature.
Focus on the leadership and management of health professions education and explore approaches to student retention, attain and progression.
Learn the issues around managing student fitness to practise and the development of professionalism and examine approaches to structuring learning and teaching in the clinical setting.
The assessment aims to prepare you for your role as a health educator within higher education, allowing you to experience writing research papers and presentations at a conference.
You'll therefore have the opportunity to develop your knowledge of health education research, develop your research writing skills and your presentation and conference skills.
This course is based in the Sciences Complex at our City Campus, which has benefitted from multi-million pound investment, with state-of-the-art resources for learning.
Teaching may take place across both City Campus and the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, subject to room availability.
We require applicants to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree.
Applicants must be in a role that includes a full range of academic responsibilities in line with the UK Professional Standards Framework dimensions and includes at least 100 hours of face-to-face scheduled teaching each year.
This course is suitable for applicants to enter with advanced standing (e.g.
APL).
APL is permitted for up to 30% of the course (60 credits).
APL will normally be applied against the modules in the Postgraduate Certificate, usually because the applicant holds a Postgraduate Certificate of equivalence.
Normal University processes of mapping learning outcomes will be applied.
We advise all potential applicants to have a discussion with the course leader before applying to ensure that the course learning outcomes can be achieved and that the route is suitable for you.
Please email mark.widdowfield@sunderland.ac.uk to arrange this.
The tuition fee for this course is £4,250 per year if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
This part-time course isn't available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
On completion of this course, you can expect to find employment at Higher Education institutions, or clinical teaching roles in the public and private sector (subject to meeting the role specification requirements).
This course is aimed at registered health professionals working to the relevant regulators Standards of Performance Conduct and Ethics.
You'll have secured employment in Higher Education or be seeking to work in supporting health professions education in the university or clinical setting.
The course is designed to develop your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and as such, be able to offer student centred teaching and learning experiences.
Page last updated:  09 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-education-send-dl:
MA Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion (DL)
Become a specialist in SEND Education.
Focus your studying around your own areas of interest within Special Education.
Pursue your SEND career through a clear progression route.
The MA in Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion (DL) degree is suitable for teachers or other educational professionals around the world who want to progress their career with a highly specialised postgraduate qualification in SEND Education.
This course will allow you to focus on studying the issues around SEND that interest you most.
Many of the modules have the flexibility to allow you to focus on areas that will be of use to your professional practice, providing a clear progression route into a career where you can help attain better outcomes for children and young people with SEND.
Throughout the degree, you will enhance your research skills at master's level, as well as collaborate with others to develop your own knowledge of Special Educational Needs whilst benefitting from the global perspectives our diverse cohorts bring.
The content of the MA SEND (DL) is delivered entirely through distance learning, providing a flexible way to achieve a master's qualification, whether you're studying in the UK or overseas.
Find out more about the benefits of distance learning .
Your progress on the MA SEND (DL) course will be assessed through written assignments, including a 15,000 word Practitioner Enquiry project (or similar), and oral and written presentations.
Throughout the degree, you will have one-to-one support from your Personal Academic Tutor.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that a master's degree requires a higher level of independent working, which will be supported by group discussions, micro-lectures and support from a team of highly qualified staff.
As this SEND course is delivered via distance learning, you can study it from anywhere in the world that has good internet access, as learning materials will be e-books, online journal papers and other online resources.
Explore the principles and practice of conducting educational research, including research design, research paradigms, data collection, management and analysis, as well as the politics and ethics involved in educational research.
Develop your own research knowledge and ability, through engaging with a variety of relevant critical literature.
Consider a range of approaches to educational research through case studies of current and recent research projects.
Grow your knowledge of critical thinking and explore the importance of this in the broader context of education.
Develop skills in self-assessment, mental flexibility, creativity, interpretation and argument.
Draw on various theoretical approaches that can then be applied to very different educational contexts.
Complete a substantial piece of research within your chosen field of study or professional practice, with the support of an allocated supervisor.
Gain an in-depth understanding of your specialist area by answering a research question, the proposal for which will have been examined in the Research Methods in Education module.
Consider the breadth of approaches to learning available to pupils with special and/or additional needs.
Examine behaviourist and child-centred approaches, communication and learning.
Focus not only on the issues of learning for those traditionally identified as having special needs, but also on those who have additional needs, for example, EAL, Gifted and Talented, and Looked After Children.
Examine the diverse physical, psychological, intellectual, social and emotional difficulties which may be encountered by children and young people.
Explore a variety of difficulties ranging from behavioural issues, sensory/physical impairment, language development and communication difficulties.
Consider the different levels of analysis from within-individual to systemic and the close relationship between conceptualisation and forms of intervention.
Investigate, in depth, the issues surrounding the practical application of a differentiated scheme of work designed to address the learning needs of a child/adult with an identified area of difficulty that presents as a barrier to effective learning.
Explore the concept of gender diversity in relation to inclusive and representative education for all pupils- including transgender and cisgender children.
Learn about gender diversity and develop the reflective and analytical ability to be adaptive and flexible in response to a dynamic and fast evolving field.
Develop contemporary knowledge of the topic, as well as the skills to foster an inclusive, representative and supportive pedagogical approach and learning environment for all students.
Critically explore the cause of the barriers to learning that SEND needs can engender, including the impact of Government policy, adverse childhood experiences and day-to-day practice within a range of health, education and care contexts.
Examine the impact of evidence-based staff knowledge, understanding and skills and the importance of prompt identification and assessment of SEND.
Consider the importance of co-production with caregivers, learners with SEND and professional organisations to improve participation and outcomes across the life-course.
Consider the breadth of approaches to learning available for pupils with special and/or additional needs.
Focus on behaviourist and child-centred approaches, communication and learning.
Explore the issues of learning for those who are traditionally identified as having special needs, but also for those who have additional needs, for example EAL, Gifted and Talented and Looked After Children.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a Second Class Honours degree (usually a 2:1) or equivalent.
We also expect you to have experience of working in education; this may be as a teacher or in another capacity in the field of education.
A recognised teaching qualification is desirable, but not essential.
Applicants whose first language is not English must achieve a minimum IELTS band score of 6.5, with 6.5 in writing, and no less than 6 in Reading, Speaking and Listening.
The fee for this course is £8,500.
The MA SEND (DL) degree is ideal for teachers and people working in educational management who want to quickly progress their careers in a wide variety of occupations in educational settings.
If you are already working in a relevant field, you will graduate with enhanced potential for progression professionally.
The knowledge and skills you develop will also transfer to many other sectors, particularly education policy and government.
Some of the industries you may be able to go into with this degree include teaching and education, local government, the charity sector, family liaison, advocacy, inclusion support, and teaching assistance.
Please note that this course does not qualify you as a teacher.
Page last updated:  03 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/children-educational-needs-idl:
Independent Distance Learning
Be a professional guide and leader.
Explore the impact on the learning and development of children such as teacher knowledge and confidence, mental health and specific learning difficulties.
This SEND course is for practitioners in the education and care sectors who wish to develop their knowledge and understanding of effective provision and practice for children with special educational needs and/or disabilities.
The degree reflects the differing contexts of practitioners across the globe with an interest in working with children and young people with SEND and is designed to provide weekly opportunities to put learning into practice and evaluate impact.
This postgraduate SEND course is for professionals who have an interest in meeting the needs of children and young people with special educational needs and/or disabilities.
The degree has been designed to fit around work commitments and is taught via distance learning under the guidance and support of the Programme Leader and Module Leaders.
Investigate, critically evaluate, and reflect on inclusive education and the impact on pupil participation and outcomes.
Analyse evidence about learning and teaching in relation to a range of specific needs in order to positively improve practice.
Examine how a range of special educational needs and/or disabilities affect pupils’ participation and learning, including social, emotional, and mental health needs.
Critically discuss planning for pupils with specific learning difficulties and autism spectrum disorders, as well as explore strategies for removing barriers.
Develop effective leadership skills and critically reflect on the generic attributes of leadership, and how they impact on provision and practice for children with SEND.
Learn how to make decisions in challenging situations and communicate effectively with colleagues in school, other professionals, and parents and carers.
Self-evaluate your own leadership, including strengths and areas for development.
Explore the role of leadership and professional challenges in supporting and promoting a culture of professional learning to improve outcomes for pupils.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a second class honours degree (usually a 2:1) or equivalent.
Qualifications gained outside the UK will be equivalency checked.
You'll also be currently working with children or young people with special educational needs and/or disabilities.
Applicants whose first language isn't English must achieve a minimum IELTS band score of 6.5, with 6.5 in writing, and no less than 6 in Reading, Speaking and Listening.
Please note, along with your application form, you must upload the following documents: Degree and or PGCE certificate Support letter from your education or care setting stating they're in agreement with you undertaking the course.
The fee is £2,600.
We offer high quality teaching that is evidence-based and relevant to your future career.
On successful completion of this course you can progress onto the MA Education or MA International Education which are also available via distance learning.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/postgraduate-advancing-counselling-practice:
Advance your current undergraduate training and experience to offer effective and professional practice in a modern, mental health landscape.
If you are a qualified counselling practitioner, MA Advancing Counselling Practice offers a focused programme of study designed to deepen and extend your professional knowledge and advance your professional practice.
You will apply contemporary evidence and theory to develop your core model whilst cultivating a wider understanding of alternatives to your current approach to practice.
Your learning is grounded in the context of a contemporary mental health landscape and you will develop approaches to working with specific client groups and issues through research and case-focused study.
Teaching will be influenced both by counselling theory and the expertise of mental health professionals from outside the field of counselling.
Specialist routes mean you can advance your standing as practitioners working with adults or with children and young people, resulting in an exit award title of MA Advancing Counselling Practice (Adult) or MA Advancing Counselling Practice (CYP).
Learn about the diverse approaches that can be applied to research in counselling including the role of researcher reflexivity and ethics.
Draw upon the techniques and approaches covered in the module to develop a research proposal to select an appropriate methodology that can be applied to a specific need for research that you’ve identified.
Undertake a critical review of your current core model to identify areas in which you can strengthen and deepen your knowledge and expertise to be more effective in practice.
Develop skills and perspectives to inform the enhancement of your practice by drawing upon contemporary literature that reflects the current evidence base and theory relevant to your core model.
Evolve a conceptualisation of your core model with consideration of potential issues and implications for its use in practice.
Explore the emotional relationship between mental and physical health and the implications for counselling practice.
Examine psycho-dynamically informed concepts of bodily transference and countertransference, as well as their potential to influence the space between client and counsellor.
Consider the use of self in relation to the physical presence of the counsellor.
Explore areas such as psychosomatic expression and the carrying of trauma within the body.
Take a holistic approach to mental health, focusing on the client’s own interpretation of their mental health and the alignment with their diagnosis.
Explore how different counselling modes can best support those experiencing mental health difficulties.
Engage in debates around boundaries and definitions of mental health which are pertinent in the context of contemporary challenges at a personal and global level.
Examine the role of counsellors in multidisciplinary team working and become familiar with the fundamentals of assessment.
Inform your approach to clinical work by covering a range of theories and perspectives that offer insight.
Learn how life stages and events may influence the client and help explain their presenting issue.
Gain an understanding of a trauma-informed approach to counselling practice and a deeper appreciation of the potential impact and significance that life events and patterns in attachments can have.
Explore the concept of professionalisation, specialisation, and expertise in counselling, including how different schools and orientations may view these concepts.
Consider various ways of being a counselling practitioner through a collaborative learning process with your peers.
Formulate your own view on these concepts and share with your group.
Critically reflect on the evolving nature of counselling and its relationship to other care-orientated professions.
Examine the perceptions and misconceptions of counselling that may be held by non-counselling colleagues.
Explore the roles of specific professionals such as psychiatrists and social workers and why there’s a need for a plethora of professionals.
Consider the limitations of counselling and when it may not be the best approach for a client.
Discuss the development of psychological problems within individual personality theories.
Gain an introduction to approaches which place difficulties within the wider social context.
Explore ideas from systemic theory, narrative therapy, and psychoanalytic theory, as well as sociological and political perspectives to examine how taking a view beyond the individual may offer previously unconsidered ways of supporting clients with their difficulties.
Prepare a project action plan that addresses feedback on your original proposal by detailing changes you would like to make in response.
Using feedback from your supervisor, put your project into action and produce a final report for assessment.
Disseminate your findings to professionals in the field to help shape future practice.
Consider a specific aspect of your case work experience where you’re developing specialist knowledge, relating to a clinical placement, client group, or a client presenting difficulty.
Showcase your understanding of your work as a counselling practitioner through the integration of counselling theory, current research evidence, and an understanding of professional guidelines, competencies, and professional ethics.
Drawing on current evidence bases, research, and professional guidelines, evaluate your training and personal and professional development to establish the extent to which you meet current best practice guidelines and develop an action plan to address any gaps.
A 2:2 degree classification in counselling/psychotherapy This must be a practitioner qualification recognised by British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP), National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS), or the United Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP) as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
Or, both of the following: A 2:2 degree classification in a related subject (e.g.
health or care) and a satisfactory personal statement A level 5 practitioner qualification in counselling recognised by BACP, NCPS, or the UKCP as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
APEL Holders of PgCert/PgDip in Counselling would be eligible to join the course however their PgCert/Dip in Counselling must be a practitioner qualification recognised by BACP, NCPS, or the UKCP as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
The student would need to have passed their practitioner qualification element of training and be registered with a professional body as a ‘registered’ member as a minimum.
This must be a practitioner qualification recognised by British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP), National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS), or the United Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP) as meeting the requirements to be eligible for registered membership.
By achieving a masters-level qualification in counselling, you will have an advantage over undergraduates in the field.
Specialist areas of study undertaken will afford you higher skills levels and greater levels of competence if you wish to work in private practice.
The course will support graduates in progressing through the SCoPEd educational framework and register as a more advanced level of practitioner.
It is also a route to entry for study for a PhD.
The MA in Advancing Counselling Practice award is unique in providing specialist recognition for practitioners working with Children and Young People.
Page last updated:  02 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-primary-education:
Train to be a primary school teacher and graduate with Qualified Teacher Status.
Share your love of learning and inspire young people.
Ensure every child gets access to a quality education.
The PGCE Primary Education with QTS will qualify you to teach at primary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This PGCE teaching course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
You'll attend placements in various school settings to gain a broad understanding of being a primary school teacher.
A part-time version of the course is available, mostly via distance learning with some focused on-campus sessions, making this option more flexible for anyone studying around existing commitments.
Please ensure you use the correct DfE code when applying:
PGCE Primary Education with QTS full-time (DfE code G381) PGCE Primary Education with QTS part-time (DfE code Z067)
Teaching placements are an important part of the PGCE Primary Education course, where you'll benefit from practical learning and be supported by mentors in school, University tutors, and your peers.
By the end of the PGCE, you'll have knowledge and experience of working in primary schools.
Your progress will be assessed with written assignments, case studies, and assessments of your teaching practice.
Your subject knowledge will also be monitored with audits to identify your strengths and areas of development, working with your subject specialist tutors to improve.
The PGCE Primary Education is a mixture of University-based learning and in-school training.
You'll spend at least 120 days on placement in at least two educational settings.
As well as placements, we provide you with additional theory linked practice days in schools, which will enable you to research and experience practice in important aspects of education introduced in University sessions.
These include the Early Years Foundation Stage, KS3/4, experience of diversity and inclusion in school, English as an additional language (EAL), and Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND).
The part-time course is taught through online and distance learning methods, face to face lectures and workshops, and online forums with personal tutors.
You'll also engage in work-based training through bespoke teaching placements.
Assessment is through a range of methods including electronic assignment submissions, case studies, observations, presentations and production, and evaluation of learning resources.
You'll be expected to study approximately 16 hours a week and will spend two weekends on campus, one in year 1 and one in year 2.
To be eligible for the award of PGCE with QTS, you must also spend a minimum of 120 days in school.
Although you can complete your teaching placement in the school you currently work in as part of your assessed placement, you'll be required to complete six weeks in a different school setting during your second year.
You'll need to be able to negotiate time away from your current employer.
Prior to starting this primary education degree, you may wish to carry out a five-day placement, assisting and observing in a primary school of your choice, with a focus on your elected route.
This ensures that you have recent and relevant experience in school settings, which will subsequently be built upon during lectures and in the teaching practice that follows.
During this placement, you'll complete a pre-placement handbook, which is used as a record of the tasks carried out and a starting point for discussion with your personal tutor.
This module will give you the chance to develop purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge, taught both in university sessions and in practical experiences in educational settings.
You’ll begin to develop an understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher.
In this module, you’ll continue to develop purposeful integration between subject knowledge, pedagogical, and theoretical knowledge, taught both in university sessions and in practical experiences in educational settings.
The module builds on the experiences undertaken in the Emerging Professional Practice module, and you’ll continue to gain an understanding of the role, responsibilities, and requirements of the professional teacher, allowing you to put this into practice.
This module will introduce you to the content of subject areas taught within the Early Years Foundation Stage and the primary national curriculum.
You’ll have the opportunity to structure and undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your professional development based around a resource for use in school.
This will encourage you to engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue through a process of action research.
You’ll develop both general and specific knowledge and skills, which will vary according to your chosen area of study.
You’ll also begin to identify and develop an understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
In this module, you’ll continue to develop your understanding of the content of subject areas taught within the Early Years Foundation Stage and the primary national curriculum.
You’ll collate a portfolio of evidence to support your development of subject specific knowledge and create an action plan outlining proposed actions to improve this, reflecting on your success.
You’ll also continue to identify, refine, and develop an understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
For the part-time course, you must have access to a computer with internet access.
The two on-campus weekends will be taught in lecture theatres and teaching classrooms, also at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
You'll usually need a 2:2 (or above) honours degree from a UK Higher Education institution or an equivalent qualification and be deemed suitable to train to teach by the University of Sunderland.
In addition to academic qualifications, you must also: Have an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check Complete a medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92) If English isn't your first language, obtain International English Language Testing System (IELTS) at a score of 6.5, with at least 6.5 in writing, and no section below 6.0.
You may have work experience in a mainstream primary school to gain knowledge of Key Stage 1 and 2, but this isn't essential.
Interviews start early November, so we recommend that you apply as soon as DfE opens in October.
Please note, applicants with a foundation degree will need to supplement this qualification with at least 60 credits at level 6 (HE level 3) in order to attain an equivalent single qualification.
PGCE Primary Education with QTS (Part-time) FAQs Is your qualification not displaying here?
Full-time fees are:
Part-time fees are £4,768.
Please note, part-time study is not available to international students.
Tuition fees for this course are eligible for funding through the Student Loans Company (SLC).
Please apply through the SLC’s website, or contact our Student Financial Guidance team.
The PGCE Primary Education awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate, you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained primary school in England.
Most graduates from this course go on to become a primary school teacher.
Good teachers area always in high demand.
The University has partnerships with over 650 schools, colleges and other educational establishments across the North East and beyond.
We’ll work with you to try and find you the perfect teaching placement – schools that can nurture and support your aspirations and interests, and help you become the best primary school teacher you can be.
Page last updated:  21 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-school-based:
Train as a teacher in practical school settings.
Share your love of learning in primary education.
Qualify to teach in any school in England.
The PGCE Primary Education (School Based) means if you have a degree, you can choose to train as a teacher at a school supported by the University.
You’ll graduate with a Post Graduate Certificate of Education (PGCE) and Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), specialising in primary level teaching.
The training you receive on the PGCE School Based course will take place at both your school and the University.
You'll usually spend one day a week at the University during non-assessed weeks, plus induction days, intensive training and practice (ITAP) days, and review days.
You'll be taught via lectures, seminars, tutorials, group work, and independent study.
Work-based learning will be based in your school.
You'll have a school mentor and a University mentor who support you during placements and assess your progress.
As part of the four modules, you'll be assessed via written work and assessment of your teaching practice where you'll collect evidence from school experiences and have this reviewed by your Personal Academic Tutor.
This PGCE School Based degree awards you Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which you need to teach in any state-maintained school in England.
Please contact us to enquire if your chosen school is currently in partnership with us for the PGCE School Based.
We currently have active partnerships with schools in Newbottle, Durham, Darlington, Springwell Village, Washington, and more.
We welcome enquiries from applicants based at any primary school in the region.
Please contact Nicola Welsh for more information:
0191 515 2590 nicola.welsh@sunderland.ac.uk
This course will mostly be based in the school that employs you, supported by time spent in a second school to develop your teaching and allow you to experience a diverse range of teaching opportunities.
You’ll be supported by Sunderland’s experienced trainers, as well as having a school-based subject and a generic trainer.
Your school will be able to give you more information about the specific support that they will provide for you.
School Based tuition route: You must have: An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check A completed medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
You must have: An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check A completed medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
The fee for this route is:
This course is not open to international students.
This course awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained school in England.
One of the benefits to schools taking part in this initiative is that they can develop their own teaching and leadership talent.
As a result, the majority of graduates go on to work at the school they partnered with on the course.
The PGCE School Based provides you with the opportunity to work closely with schools in order to gain your teaching qualification.
We work in partnership with approximately 24 schools on our School Based course, across primary settings.
Each of these schools is part of a School Based Alliance, which is led by a lead school.
You will apply to a School Based Alliance and following a successful interview, you'll be placed in one of their ‘host schools’.
Page last updated:  21 November 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-history:
This PGCE Secondary Education in History degree qualifies you to teach history at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
The course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience, to develop confident and innovative history teachers who will make this vital subject accessible to all learners.
You will attend placements in a variety of educational settings, to build a rich understanding of the realities of secondary level teaching.
In addition to the development of effective and engaging teaching styles, you will also be prepared to meet the requirements of history within the National Curriculum and GCSE/A Level specifications.
Placements are an important part of this PGCE History course.
During this time, you will benefit from practical learning and be supported by school-based trainers and University-based tutors.
Your progress will be assessed through written assignments, case studies and assessments of your teaching practice.
This course is a mixture of University-based learning and in-school training.
The course is designed to enable you to spend 120 days in a school or other educational institution.
This module will allow you to begin experiencing life in teaching institutions to help you gain professional knowledge around teaching and learning and start to make judgements about the routines, skills, and strategies that support effective teaching.
You'll investigate the key content of subject areas taught within the curriculum, considering a variety of approaches to teaching your subject specialism and identifying common misconceptions.
In this module, you'll continue to build on your knowledge around teaching and learning, gaining a variety of experience in a work-based learning environment to meet professional standards identified in government legislation.
You'll continue to investigate the content of subject areas taught within the curriculum, considering the different approaches to teaching your own subject specialism.
You'll also formulate skillful questioning to reveal levels of pupil understanding, encouraging pupils to take responsibility for their own academic progress.
This module will help you identify, refine, and develop knowledge and understanding of pedagogical approaches, adaptive teaching, planning, and assessment strategies.
You'll reflect on pedagogical approaches by linking theory to practice in a reflective journal and present on your developed understanding of professional learning.
This module will give you the opportunity to undertake a piece of independent academic study related to your subject specialism and engage in intellectual challenge and dialogue.
You'll usually need to hold a 2:2 (or above) honours degree from a UK Higher Education institution or an equivalent qualification and be deemed suitable to train to teach by the University of Sunderland.
If English isn't your first language, you'll also need International English Language Testing System (IELTS) at a score of 6.5, with at least 6.5 in writing, and no section below 6.0.
Although not compulsory to be accepted onto the course, time working or volunteering in school would be advantageous.
This degree awards Qualified Teacher Status, which means that when you graduate you’ll be qualified to teach in any state-maintained secondary school in England.
Most graduates from this course go on to become a secondary school teacher.
The University of Sunderland has partnerships with over 650 schools, colleges and other educational establishments across the North East and beyond.
We’ll work with you to try and find you the perfect teaching placement – schools that can nurture and support your aspirations and interests, and help you become the best secondary school teacher you can be.
When you’re ready to start searching for a teaching job, you will already have valuable first-hand teaching experience, as well as a wide network of professional contacts who can help you find the right career opportunities.
Individual Learning Plans are an integral part of the PGCE History course and are used to track your academic and professional journey.
They track progress with academic study, detailing how you aim to address any areas of development highlighted within assessment feedback from academics.
You will use this document to track your progress against the Teachers’ Standards.
The Individual Learning Plan will be discussed regularly with your Personal Tutors and will be used to assess your progress and set relevant targets to further your development.
These documents form part of the assessment process for teaching practice.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-computer-science:
Teach the people who will build the technology of tomorrow.
Inspire a new generation of software engineers.
Become a computer science teacher in secondary education.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Computer Science degree will qualify you to teach computer science at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year PGCE Computer Science course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
You will attend placements in a variety of educational settings, to gain a broad understanding of the realities of secondary level teaching.
Through the teachers' student loan reimbursement scheme, all eligible teachers will be able to apply for a reimbursement on their student loan payments.
Read more about the eligibility criteria .
Placements are an important part of this PGCE Computer Science course.
During that time, you will benefit from practical learning and be supported by school-based trainers and University-based tutors.
Your progress will be assessed with written assignments, case studies and assessments of your teaching practice.
Being able to support yourself while taking the time to complete your teacher training course is an important consideration when it comes to making the decision to apply.
In this article, we look at the different options available when it comes to teacher training funding.
Learn more about what teacher training funding is available
Computer science teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced training bursaries of £29,000 and scholarships of £31,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.
See the Get into Teaching website for more details.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-science-physics:
Inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers.
Share your love for science.
Become a physics teacher in secondary education.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Science with Physics degree will qualify you to teach physics at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year PGCE Physics course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
Through the teachers' student loan reimbursement scheme, all eligible physics teachers will be able to apply for a reimbursement on their student loan payments made in the first ten years of their careers.
Placements are an important part of this PGCE Physics course.
We've got two well-equipped Science Labs at Wearside View where students studying for our Science Education courses can put their teaching skills into practice.
Physics teachers are in short supply nationally.
See the Get into Teaching website for more details.
Most graduates from this course go on to become secondary school teachers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-science-chemistry:
Share your love for chemistry.
Inspire a new generation of scientists.
Become a chemistry teacher in secondary education.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Science with Chemistry degree will qualify you to teach chemistry at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year PGCE Chemistry course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
You will attend placements in a variety of educational settings to gain a broad understanding of the realities of secondary level teaching.
Through the teachers' student loan reimbursement scheme, all eligible chemistry teachers will be able to apply for a reimbursement on their student loan payments made in the first ten years of their careers.
Placements are an important part of this PGCE Chemistry course.
Chemistry teachers are in short supply nationally.
You’ll spend at least 120 days on placement.
We’ll work with you to find you the perfect teaching placement – schools that can nurture and support your aspirations and interests, and help you become the best secondary school teacher you can be.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-science-biology:
Become a biology teacher in secondary education.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Science with Biology degree will qualify you to teach biology at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year PGCE Biology course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
Through the teachers' student loan reimbursement scheme, all eligible biology teachers will be able to apply for a reimbursement on their student loan payments made in the first ten years of their careers.
Placements are an important part of this PGCE Biology course.
Biology teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced bursaries of £26,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-english:
Encourage new generations to discover the beauty of literature.
Teach young people how to use language to express themselves.
Become a secondary school English teacher.
The PGCE Secondary Education in English degree will qualify you to teach English at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year PGCE English course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
You will attend placements in a variety of educational settings, to gain a broad understanding of the realities of teaching English in a secondary school.
Placements are an important part of the PGCE English course.
English teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced training bursaries of £5,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.
Most graduates from this course go on to become a secondary school teacher

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-mathematics:
Empower young people with mathematics.
Help them access new ways of thinking and new career paths.
Become a maths teacher and teach secondary education.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Mathematics degree will qualify you to teach mathematics at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
Placements are an important part of the PGCE Mathematics course.
Mathematics teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced bursaries of £29,000 and scholarships of £31,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.
We’ll work with you to try and find you the perfect teaching placement – schools that can nurture and support your aspirations and interests and help you become the best secondary school teacher you can be.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-chinese:
The Masters of Business Administration (MBA) is the flagship course in the School of Business and Management.
Our modules have been developed in partnership with employers, making our course about much more than just what is in the textbook.
Through inspiring guest speakers, group challenges, regular social events, and opportunities to impact local industries, you will become a member of a diverse community of aspiring leaders able to face the challenges of 21st-century business.
The course is delivered online, taught (in Putonghua), and assessed in Chinese.
Appropriate contextualisation will ensure learning aligns with local markets and environments.
You will study four modules and complete an individual research project in a year.
Each module is fully supported by an online learning environment, where you will access all the materials you need.
You will attend weekly seminars where you come together to explore the module topics with fellow aspiring leaders and real industry practitioners.
This course will be taught online by staff from the University of Sunderland in Hong Kong.
You'll need a good internet connection to use our Virtual Learning Environment, where you will access specially designed learning materials, e-books, e-journals, relevant websites, and multimedia.
Please see our English requirements if English isn't your first language .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-geography:
Share your passion for human geography, physical geography and the environment.
Guide generations of young people.
Become a geography teacher in secondary education.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Geography degree will qualify you to teach geography at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one year PGCE Geography course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
Placements are an important part of this PGCE Geography course.
All successful applicants will be invited to an interview.
Interviews start early November, so we recommend that you apply as soon as UCAS opens.
Geography teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced training bursaries of £26,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.
Page last updated:  19 November 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-further-education-skills:
Share your love of learning.
Use your specialist subject knowledge every day.
Help people discover new interests and careers.
The PGCE Further Education and Skills (FES) (formerly the PGCE PCET) is a professional teacher education course that will qualify you to teach in the Further Education and Skills sector.
The PGCE FES course is designed for graduates with degrees from a wide range of subjects, including those not widely taught in secondary schools (such as sports science, health and social care, psychology, performing arts, and law).
It'll equip you with the necessary tools to teach young people from 16+ years old and adults, and allow you to share your knowledge in a way that helps others fulfil their potential.
Contact time for the PGCE Further Education and Skills is eight hours per week in an encouraging and productive learning environment.
The course provides trainee teachers with opportunities, time, and space to develop their theory knowledge.
Trainee teachers refine their teaching practice throughout the year alongside highly experienced and research-active practitioners.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including interactive teaching, lectures, seminars, practical teaching workshops, tutorials, directed learning, and group work.
You'll also be expected to successfully complete a minimum of 150 hours of teaching practice, 100 hours of professional practice, and ten observations during the course.
Assessment methods include essays and reflections, presentations, dialogic conversations, micro-teaches, and formative and summative observations of teaching practice.
This course is for people who don’t have previous experience of teaching.
This module will allow you to explore the wider context of curriculum design including intent, implementation, and impact of teaching, learning, and assessment strategies, plus developments in digital technologies, fluencies, and literacy.
You’ll learn how to conduct research in a way that will allow you to judge the effectiveness of your teaching and take informed steps to implement a curriculum intervention you’ve developed.
This module will introduce you to the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education and Skills sector and explore appropriate teaching and learning approaches in English Language.
You’ll gain a sound understanding of teaching English Language in a sustainable manner including resource development, assessment strategies, and ways to support your learners’ progress.
This module will introduce you to the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education and Skills sector and explore appropriate teaching and learning approaches in SEND pedagogy.
You’ll gain a sound understanding of teaching SEND learners in a sustainable manner including resource development, assessment strategies, and ways to support your learners’ progress.
This module will introduce you to the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education and Skills sector and explore appropriate teaching and learning approaches in mathematics.
You’ll gain a sound understanding of teaching maths in a sustainable manner including resource development, assessment strategies, and ways to support your learners’ progress.
This module will introduce you to the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education and Skills sector and explore appropriate teaching and learning approaches in computing.
You’ll gain a sound understanding of teaching computing in a sustainable manner including resource development, assessment strategies, and ways to support your learners’ progress.
This module will introduce you to the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education and Skills sector and explore appropriate teaching and learning approaches in science.
You’ll gain a sound understanding of teaching science in a sustainable manner including resource development, assessment strategies, and ways to support your learners’ progress.
You'll usually need a 2:2 (or above) honours degree from a UK higher education institution or an equivalent qualification and be deemed suitable to train to teach by the University of Sunderland.
You must also have: An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check A completed medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
If you're invited for an interview, you'll be asked to complete a pre-interview written task, participate in a group activity, and complete a short in-house literacy and numeracy assessment.
Applicants with a Foundation Degree will need to supplement this qualification with at least 60 credits at level 6 (HE level 3) in order to attain an equivalent single qualification.
Technical requirements for studying this course There may be times when physical face-to-face classes are unable to be held.
There's also the potential for remote or online classes to be held in the future.
We suggest the following to make the most of your PGCE FES learning experience: You'll need access to a stable internet connection (min.
1MB/s) The Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) that you'll need to access to study runs on Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, and Android, or any other device with a modern web browser.
Please note that you can't access the Virtual Learning Environment on Internet Explorer.
You'll need access to Microsoft Teams to access classes and Microsoft Word/PowerPoint, or equivalent software, to complete your assignments.
Access to the suite of Microsoft applications will coincide with your enrolment on the course.
There may be times when physical face-to-face classes are unable to be held.
A limited number of Teacher Training Subject Specialist support bursaries awarded by the Department for Education (DfE) may be available for those studying English Language, Science, Computing, Maths, or SEND, ranging from £15,000 to £30,000.
Your eligibility for these bursaries will be discussed with you in your interview.
Terms and conditions apply.
When you complete the Further Education and Skills course, you'll have a PGCE that will qualify you to teach in the sector.
Previous graduates of this course have gone on to employment within Further Education colleges, sixth form colleges, training organisations, charities, universities, prison education, and community and adult organisations.
After completing this ITE course, you can progress towards Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status which is recommended for teaching in the Further Education and Skills sector.
QTLS has legal equivalence to QTS and is recognised by some head teachers in schools.
Visit the SET website for further information on QTLS and to check your eligibility.
Teaching placements are an essential part of the PGCE Further Education and Skills degree.
We'll help to arrange a minimum of 150 hours of teaching practice across two placements in the Further Education and Skills sector over the one-year course.
Your teaching practice placement will provide you with valuable opportunities to work alongside experienced teachers and to learn how to design, deliver, assess, and evaluate teaching and learning in the sector.
You'll be supported and guided by a subject specialist mentor who'll be allocated to you through the University of Sunderland’s Placement Office.
Please note that you'll be expected to pay for your own travel to and from placement.
When you’re ready to start searching for a teaching job, you'll already have a wide network of professional contacts who can help you find the right opportunities.
The Enhanced Mentoring pathway is a bespoke Initial Teacher Training option accredited by the University of Sunderland.
Training as part of this pathway gives you the opportunity to learn on the job from the very beginning.
You'll benefit from working and learning every day in a Further Education environment, gaining immediate insight into what teaching involves.
The Enhanced Mentoring option as part of the PGCE Further Education and Skills is a fee-paying route into teaching, delivered in-house at Durham Sixth Form or Hartlepool Sixth Form College , accredited by and in collaboration with the team at the University of Sunderland.
This pathway option is delivered by qualified in-house staff who possess a high level of expertise.
It allows you as a trainee teacher to immerse yourself in post-16 education.
You'll benefit from this vast knowledge and experience, demonstrated through the academic programme that's been devised to cover a broad range of training areas.
These areas include an introduction to teaching and learning, embedding effective assessment, enrichment, and developing action research skills.
Teaching will be supported by contemporary academic writing and educational research to ensure you're provided with a thorough knowledge of current educational policy and practice.
Page last updated:  24 March 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/psychology/undergraduate-counselling-tu:
Gain a full Bachelor of Arts with Honours degree by topping up your existing Foundation Degree or equivalent.
Enhance your practice and reflect on your professional development.
Balance study with ongoing practice or other work and personal commitments.
Counselling is increasingly becoming professionalised and practitioners are expected to evaluate the effectiveness of their own practice, apply research findings and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in their field.
This course has been designed to enable you to succeed in this changing environment.
Teaching is carried out in an interactive way with a combination of lectures, seminars and workshops.
Group work, discussion and presentations are just some of the approaches used in teaching sessions.
Assessment is by a literature based dissertation, a variety of essays and a research activity.
Teaching is one full day a week (currently a Monday) and there may be additional times when you need to attend personal tutorials or dissertation meetings with your supervisor.
This module gives you the chance to further develop your counselling skills in a supportive environment.
You’ll work with qualified counselling practitioners who will help you evaluate your progress and try out different interventions in simulated practice sessions with your peers, ensuring a safe and constructive learning experience.
How can you apply your developing skills to real-world counselling situations?
You’ll focus on both refining your techniques and exploring how to effectively use them in practice.
How can you develop a deep understanding of the therapeutic relationship and the factors that influence it?
In this module, you’ll explore the key elements of this relationship while focusing on your personal and professional growth.
As you refine your own unique counselling style and approach, you’ll also critically assess the strengths and weaknesses of integrative practice, applying these insights to your own work.
Through the use of a personal journal, you’ll engage in reflective learning, helping you to explore and deepen your understanding of the therapeutic process.
How can you shape your future career with a counselling degree?
This module offers workshops and seminars in various fields where your counselling skills could lead you.
You’ll choose an area of interest and, through critical reflection, plan and carry out activities that will expand your knowledge and expertise, boosting your graduate prospects.
In this module, you’ll explore different views on mental health, from medical to social and spiritual perspectives.
What does mental health really mean, and how do we define illness?
You’ll dive into important debates, like the validity of psychiatric diagnoses, and learn how these theories affect treatment.
You’ll also discover how to work in mental health teams, assess risks, and understand the service user movement.
Finally, you’ll reflect on your role in mental health and its latest developments.
All applicants must be qualified counsellors who have either a Foundation Degree in Counselling or professional level Diploma in Counselling.
Past students have gone on to find employment in a range of counselling fields, such as the voluntary sector charitable organisations, public sectors such as NHS and educational institutions, specialist fields such as substance misuse, sexual abuse, bereavement and self-employment (private practice).
There are also opportunities to use counselling skills within your existing profession (such as teaching or welfare work).
By having added responsibility for counselling and pastoral work you can become a more valuable employee.
Many employers will be interested in the transferable skills that you gain through a counselling degree.
Most of our graduates apply their skills in counselling or similar helping professional roles.
While you are at Sunderland, our counselling careers tutor provides advice, resources and guidance for enhancing your employability so that you begin your future career in exactly the right way.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-mechanical-engineering-top-up:
Top up your existing qualification.
Gain the skills and knowledge required by professional engineers.
Secure employment within major companies such as GSK, Northumbrian Water, Hitachi and Parametrics Technology.
Teaching methods on this course includes lectures, seminars, group work and practical laboratory work.
You will also complete virtual work via engineering specific software.
This course can be studied full-time and part-time.
If you study full-time, you will be on campus two to three days a week.
If you study across two years, part-time, you will be on campus one day per week.
Undertake a unique engineering project that builds on one or more of the topics you've studied throughout your course.
Conduct research and resolve an engineering problem in an area of practice that is interesting to you.
Enhance your time management and research skills.
Discover a range of tools that can be applied within a manufacturing context to analyse existing performance and aid the development of models and systems which achieve an enhanced level of productivity.
Develop your knowledge of modern measurement and control tools.
Explore some of the soft skills outlined in the UK-SPEC which are pre-requisites to chartered status.
Develop your communication and interpersonal skills alongside the design and development of processes and systems.
Discover more about project management, and some of the techniques associated with it.
Gain advanced knowledge of the principles underlying a range of engineering applications of engineering dynamics and thermofluids systems.
Design from first principles a range of psychrometric and heat transfer systems.
Evaluate the dynamic characteristics of rotating systems and predict instability.
Enhance your understanding of the materials needed in a wider engineering context and the interdependency of design, manufacture, economics, and environmental considerations.
Undertake a design exercise based upon a real engineering problem and select the appropriate materials from which specified components or assemblies would be made.
Synthesise solutions to engineering problems using the knowledge and techniques you’ve gained throughout your studies.
The typical entry requirement is successful completion of one of the following: There are a range of qualifications that would satisfy the entry requirements and we will consider each application individually.
There are a range of qualifications that would satisfy the entry requirements and we will consider each application individually.
Graduates from this course can go on to jobs in the automotive, materials, food, chemical and pharmaceutical industries, among many others.
More generally, you will be equipped to take up a wide range of roles throughout the engineering and manufacturing sectors.
Sunderland has a good reputation with employers.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors, Jaguar, Perkins Engines, GSK, Northumbrian Water, Hitachi and Parametrics Technology.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-automotive-engineering-top-up:
Gain the skills required to be an accomplished Automotive Engineer.
Graduate ready to work at Automotive Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), in motorsport and in a range of other sectors.
Curious about electric cars and how vehicles stay safe and fast?
Discover how cars are built, powered and controlled.
Explore electric and hybrid tech, smart materials, steering, suspension, and how air flows around a car.
You’ll also see how sensors and microcontrollers work together to control motion, balance, and speed.
Using real industry tools and simulations, you’ll test ideas and design systems, getting ready to help build the cars of tomorrow.
Students qualifying from this course are highly sought after in the local and global industrial companies ranging across many sectors.
Page last updated:  04 June 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/electronic-electrical-engineering-top-up:
Top-up your foundation degree and complement your existing knowledge with expert level skills in electrical power, electronic systems design, manufacturing systems design and engineering management techniques.
Undertake a major project related in an area of electrical engineering of your choice.
On this course you'll complete a major project related to your selected topic of electrical engineering.
The project needs to demonstrate the skills expected of degree-level students, including a clear argument, rigorous data, critical analysis and solid conclusions.
Teaching is enriched by our research into areas such as automotive mechatronics, control engineering, materials and structural analysis, manufacturing systems and advanced maintenance.
Sunderland has excellent facilities including laboratories for electronics, robotics and programmable logic controllers.
We also have workshops and advanced modelling software that is the latest industry standard.
If you study the one-year top-up, full-time, you will be on campus two to three days a week.
Full and part-time Level 2 top-up options are also available which are likely to include teaching over three days a week.
Enhance your time-management and research skills.
Expand your knowledge of the practical applications and performance characteristics of DC machines, AC motors, and generators, their operation, performance, and control.
Design, model and analyse the behavior of electrical machines under normal and abnormal conditions.
Critically analyse the stability requirements, the load flow and fault capabilities of a power network, including protection interruption requirements.
Consider the design of complex multivariable combinational and sequential logic circuits.
Directly apply digital design principles to practical problems.
Appraise circuit designs and formulate designs to improve them.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-engineering-technologies-top-up:
Study a wide range of engineering topics.
Benefit from strong industry links and work with specialist, industry-standard facilities.
Graduate and embark on a wide range of careers throughout the engineering and manufacturing sectors.
You'll be introduced to a wide range of engineering systems and concepts.
This course has been carefully constructed to prepare you to work effectively in the modern world of engineering and gain a deeper understanding of this fascinating discipline.
Discover more about a selection of analytical and management techniques, and the tools to apply these techniques in accordance with the recognised ethical requirements expected of, and by, professional engineers.
Teaching methods on this course includes lectures, seminars, group work and e-learning.
If you study the one-year top-up course, full-time, you'll be on campus two to three days a week.
If you study across two years, part-time, you'll be on campus one day per week.
Gain an appreciation and understanding of the practical and professional considerations involved in introducing digital technologies to a manufacturing process or facility.
Increase your knowledge and understanding of modern maintenance practices.
Study the applied theory of maintenance strategies, data management, the use of emerging technologies as well as increase your awareness of the importance of human factors.
Identify and apply the key characteristics of maintenance techniques that contribute to the success of modern manufacturing organisations.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/undergraduate-network-systems-top-up:
Master the knowledge needed to become a web programmer or software developer.
Immerse yourself in Cisco systems and topics such as project management and ethical hacking.
Graduate with the skills to work in a range of careers in an ever-evolving and increasingly important sector.
BSc (Hons) Network Systems allows you to top-up your existing qualification in just one year.
You will have full access to the University’s outstanding IT facilities, which include specialist computer forensics laboratories.
We are also an accredited Cisco Academy and have two laboratories packed with Cisco networking equipment including routers, switches, terminals and specialist equipment for simulating frame relay and ISDN links.
Topics include project management, telecommunications, product development and advanced routing.
A typical week for you will include lectures, tutorials, seminars and laboratory sessions.
The module begins with a detailed study of the current exterior gateway protocol that manages the routing of IP traffic over the Internet.
You will learn how service providers and other multi-homed organisations use this protocol to support their routing policies.
This module moves from analogue principles to digital telephony, VOIP, packetized voice, GSM and converged networks.
You will have an opportunity to build a fully converged modern telecommunications system.
Develop knowledge and understanding of delivering maximum value to a business in its use of IT and IT processes.
The top type of job gained by our graduates is ‘information and communication technology professional’.
Our graduates have become web programmers, IT managers, information analysts and software developers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-banking-finance:
Build on your existing skills gained through a diploma, or equivalent, in an area related to banking, finance, or business.
Study subjects such as financial markets and international banking.
Graduate with a wealth of experience to advance your career.
This BA (Hons) Banking and Finance (Top-Up) course is designed for you if you want to top-up your existing qualification to a full undergraduate degree.
You'll benefit from studying on a course that's internationally recognised and respected because of its excellent career prospects.
You’ll develop the intellectual tools and knowledge to tackle real-world issues within the banking and finance sector or financial departments of organisations and we aim to enhance your opportunities for success in carrying out challenging management roles with strong career progression.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, group work, and e-learning.
Assessment methods include written coursework, projects, presentations, and exams.
Gain an understanding of money banking and finance.
Examine the theories necessary to understand the determination of rates of return, the pricing of assets and the behaviour of asset markets.
Please contact the Banking Academy for more information on facilities and location:
12 Chua Boc St Dong Da Dist Hanoi Vietnam
84 43 572 6384 info@hvnh.edu.vn
This course is based on the banks of the River Wear at The Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s.
You’ll have access to extensive library resources and comprehensive facilities.
You're also able to study this course with an education partner, Banking Academy, Vietnam.
The typical entry requirement is the successful completion of an HND or its equivalent as follows: BTEC HND in Finance BTEC HND in Business and Management BTEC Higher National Diploma in Business or related area ABE Advanced Diploma in Business Administration IBAM Advanced Diploma in Business Administration 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant finance, business, or management-related discipline.
If English isn't your first language, please see our English language requirements .
Read more about EU fees and funding in ou r Help and Advice article .
Gaining an undergraduate degree will boost your career prospects and allow you to progress faster.
Salaries in banking and finance are also very attractive and our course is directly relevant to the needs of employers in these sectors.
This banking and finance top-up course aims to challenge you and support you to develop a range of graduate attributes that enhance graduate authenticity, and enable you to achieve a greater degree of power and control concerning your career.
By completing the course, you'll be adding value to your employability and attractiveness as a professional.
The guest speaker programme sees influential business leaders come to the University to share their knowledge with students.
You'll have access to careers and employability support which is available to current students and graduates for up to three years after completion of your course.
It provides you with a comprehensive range of help and career resources for employability development, such as Career EDGE.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/business-marketing-management-top-up:
Prepare for roles in marketing management, marketing analysis and marketing communications.
Join our well-established undergraduate Business and Marketing Management course at Stage 3 (final year) and top-up your existing qualification to a full degree in just one year of study.
Compared to the core Business Management course, it has a greater focus on skills and knowledge related to marketing.
Modules studied include marketing strategy, strategic integrated marketing communications, consumer psychology, managing projects, strategic management, and e-marketing strategy.
Please note that you'll be joining our BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management degree at Stage 3, final year entry.
Teaching methods include a mix of lectures, seminars and ‘surgeries’.
You'll spend significant amounts of time in independent preparation and assignments.
Your progress will be assessed by individual assessments such as case studies, blogs/vlogs, and written reports.
Read more about what this means in our Help and Advice article.
The typical entry requirement is successful completion of an HND or its equivalent as follows: BTEC HND in Marketing BTEC HND in Business and Management IBAM Advanced Diploma in Business Administration ABE Advanced Diploma in Business Administration 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant subject.
We'll consider applications from applicants who don't hold one of the qualifications listed above but do hold an equivalent professional qualification at Level 5.
Please email the Student Administration Team for further details at studentadmin@sunderland.ac.uk .
As a graduate from this course, you'll have excellent skills and knowledge in marketing strategy and project and strategic management.
You’ll be ready to step into a marketing role in a wide variety of industries across the world.
Some of the companies which employ our graduates include Procter & Gamble, Nike, Adidas, Microsoft, IBM, Marriott Hotels, Starbucks, and the public sector.
Recent speakers include Mike Johnson, CEO of Castrol and Executive Vice President of BP; James Ramsbotham, CEO of the North East Chamber of Commerce; Bernie Callaghan, shareholder and former CEO of Leighton Group; Louise Hunter, Director of Corporate Affairs at Northumbria Water; as well as other representatives from a number of our region’s largest employers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/childhood-society-studies:
Progress in your career.
Develop your skills in analysis, research, and communication.
Discover what you’re capable of.
The BA (Hons) Childhood and Society Studies (Top-Up) course is designed for people who want to gain a full undergraduate Childhood Studies degree and are working with children and/or young people.
You'll develop a broader understanding of a number of childhood-related topics and use this to analyse your own practice and the practice of others in childhood settings.
If you have existing experience in early years, you can take the optional pathway in Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies and graduate with a highly-desirable degree with the title BA (Hons) Childhood and Society Studies with Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies, enhancing your employability.
When you apply for the BA (Hons) Childhood and Society Studies (Top-Up) degree, you can choose to enrol on a part-time basis over two years or on a full-time basis over one year.
Semester one runs from September to December and semester two runs from January to May.
During your first semester of your first year, you'll be required to choose one module from four options that you would potentially like to study.
Using a choice ranking system, we run preferred modules that meet the required threshold of student numbers.
Optional modules are then complemented by core modules.
If you choose to study the Childhood and Society Studies course part-time, you'll have the unique option to study the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies pathway, which is beneficial for career progression in many ways.
This route incurs additional face-to-face contact time with our specialist Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies lead.
Currently, all students engage with learning and materials via a blend of online learning and face-to-face contact time.
Whether you choose part-time or full-time study, the scheduled face-to-face learning for each semester takes place up to two evenings per week between 5-9pm.
Develop your understanding of the strengths and limitations of approaches of research methods and methodologies, including those you will choose for your work based topic.
Gain a specialist understanding of an issue by carrying out an independent research project with the support and guidance of a research supervisor.
Investigate critical literature relating to your chosen area and implement an investigation strategy to gather research data, then reflect on and analyse the project outcomes, pulling everything together in one conclusion that may make recommendations for further study and/or practice.
Unpack and discuss a wide range of issues in relation to equality and diversity in contemporary society, such as race, class, culture, religion, language, gender, sexuality, disability, mental health, income and education.
Discuss, debate and critique why forms and possible causes of inequality manifest, by considering a variety of influential factors.
Explore personal, practical, political and ethical dimensions of prejudice, discrimination, and equality in a range of contexts.
Strengthen your professional practice and your ability to critique societal responses, legislation and other provisions that are aimed at driving equality now and in the future.
Explore leadership theory and how it relates to work within children and young people settings, exploring and making connections between theories and styles of leadership, working collaboratively in teams and multi-agency contexts, leading change and dealing with conflict, quality assurance, reflective practice and continued professional development, as well as leading yourself.
Place theory into practice and practice into theory by utilising and connecting the lecture material and readings to recorded leadership conversations with professionals across the childhood and youth sector, case studies, and, where appropriate, your own practice within the childhood and youth sector.
Gain an understanding of the relationship between education and society and explore some of the key ideas and concepts of education, learning and teaching to understand how they have been shaped by historical, sociological, anthropological and philosophical perspectives.
Examine the processes and structures in different educational contexts to determine the impact these have on learners in social contexts.
Explore how globalisation is impacting upon education and teaching and learning.
Develop your innovation in teaching across all stages of learning, covering a range of groups of children, from large groups to the individual child.
Explore and consider all areas of the curriculum and make links to both core and foundation subjects.
Strengthen your ability to develop creative teaching support strategies and activities.
Examine current political ideology, policy and rhetoric in terms of developing a curriculum that engages all pupils of differentiated ability.
Consider the nature of ‘nurturing care’ and learning practices that support health, nutrition, responsive caregiving, safety and security, and early learning.
Think about some of the early intervention strategies used in the UK and abroad that aim to support families whose children are in the foundation years of childhood and that provide optimal environments for learning.
Examine care giving/learning practices across the foundation stage years including attachment, interaction, early intervention and the importance of routines.
Learn about the theoretical approaches that underpin care of practice and learning with children across the foundation stage of childhood.
Directed at educators at all levels of education, from early childhood to higher and adult education, develop a common understanding of the digital competence needs of educators.
Explore a wide range of content, strategies, techniques and approaches that personalise learning and facilitates students to achieve and realise their potential in practice.
Learn how this allows for an emergent competency framework, enabling the identification, evaluation, and development of competencies within an organisation or profession, as well as collaborative learning and digital citizenship.
Reflect upon and gather evidence in practice on nine Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies from birth to eight years.
*To select this optional module, you must be on the part-time route, be employment-based and/or have 25 days placement opportunities depending on currency and timely experiences across the age range 0-8 years.
Please note that options are dependent on a suitable number of students taking them, as well as staff availability, and so some options may not run.
Teaching will take place at the Reg Vardy Centre, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
To apply for this course you usually need one of the following: Foundation Degree in a relevant subject (such as Education and Care) 240 credits (or equivalent) of a recognised UK undergraduate award, in a relevant subject to Level 5.
You must also have all of the following: Is your qualification not displaying here?
Gaining an undergraduate degree in Childhood Studies will boost your career prospects and allow you to progress faster.
You'll also be eligible to apply for a range of master's courses (level 7), such as MA Childhood and Youth Studies , Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) courses, MSc Inequality and Society , and MA Social Work .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/undergraduate-education-studies-pt:
Enhance your career.
Explore the world of education through blended learning.
Gain a degree level qualification in two years.
This part-time, in-service Education Studies course is ideal for people who are already working or have worked in a relevant educational context such as teaching assistants, vocational teachers, trainers in public and third sector, lecturers, curriculum designers and policy makers.
Applicants fitting this criteria can apply to enter the part-time course at level 5 and can complete the degree in two years.
Our BA (Hons) Education Studies (In-service) course will give you a broad and detailed understanding of the principles of education, and its systems and structures.
You will critically explore all phases of education, from a range of historical, economic, philosophical, sociological, and psychological perspectives.
As a part-time student, you will attend core lectures on evenings or weekends, supplemented by self-study.
This route, designed for practitioners already working in the field, requires you to study the modules listed in years two and three.
This in-service Education Studies course is taught via small group work, workshops, lectures, tutorials, computer-based learning, presentations and independent learning.
There is also full-time version of this course available, which is more suitable for traditional undergraduate applicants with no prior work experience.
Applicants must be practitioners already working in the field with at least two years of work experience in the education sector.
The following qualifications are also accepted for this course: If you don’t have the necessary academic qualifications, but have relevant work experience or qualifications, you may still be eligible.
Please get in touch with the Programme Leader to discuss: kate.duffy@sunderland.ac.uk .
Typical applicants include: A teaching assistant/learning support or cover supervisor with at least two years' experience who has completed a higher-level teaching assistant award alongside their professional development A teacher in Further Education with at least two years' experience who has completed a Diploma in Education and Training or Cert Ed PCET.
You must have a Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) check before starting this course.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) If you feel you already know some of the topics covered in this course, either due to previous learning or from work experience, then you may not need to study all of the course.
If you don’t have the necessary academic qualifications, but have relevant work experience or qualifications, you may still be eligible.
If you feel you already know some of the topics covered in this course, either due to previous learning or from work experience, then you may not need to study all of the course.
The fee for this course is £7,145 per 90 credits if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
You'll study 80 credits per year.
This BA (Hons) Education Studies (In-service) course prepares you for a career in many different aspects of the education system.
However, if you do decide to become a teacher, you will be guaranteed an interview for a PGCE degree at the University of Sunderland.
Read more about reasons to study Education Studies
Page last updated:  22 May 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/crime-policing-investigation/policing-studies-top-up:
Gain an undergraduate degree in one year of study.
Our BSc (Hons) Policing Studies (Top-Up) course has been developed in conjunction with feedback from regional police units and colleges.
Our curriculum complements the national agenda for professionalising the police force and allows students to gain a BSc qualification in one year of study.
This police course will examine the most important issues facing modern policing and will provide a professional and academic basis for policing practice.
Throughout the BSc (Hons) Policing Studies (Top-Up) course, you'll learn directly from a teaching team who are active researchers with direct links to policing practice.
The learning environment supports academic and practitioner skills and will develop creativity and critical thinking, and will therefore produce skilled practitioners who will be enabled to have a positive impact upon local and national policing practice in their careers.
This police course will be delivered in teaching blocks in order to accommodate students who are in-service.
You will also benefit from support through your own personal tutor – an academic who provides advice and mentoring throughout the course.
Your assessments will be a mixture of a presentation, portfolio and written assignment.
Critically examine evidence-based policing and its application across the UK.
Examine the professional concept, definition, and rationale for evidence-based policing.
Consider the importance of identifying and differentiating between types of evidence for best practice.
Critically analyse a range of contemporary issues in policing.
Gain an understanding of the historical, political, and social events that lead to critical policing issues.
Evaluate the impacts and implications for society, for policing, and social and criminal justice.
Police officers are frequently required to make critical decisions in often challenging circumstances.
Learn about the importance of defensible decision-making and how reflexivity can drive improvement in the quality of professional practice.
Gain an understanding of the National Decision Model and using case studies, demonstrate how it can serve to professionalise police decision-making.
Learn about the concept of Policing by Consent and why it has allowed the British model of policing to gain a worldwide reputation for fairness and legitimacy.
Explore this theory and seek to determine whether it remains relevant in the modern world.
This course is for serving or previous police officers with a minimum of two years of service and successful completion of their probationary period.
Applicants who hold an HE Diploma/FdA or equivalent in a relevant subject will also be considered.
The BSc (Hons) Policing Studies (Top-Up) degree has been designed and will be taught by our staff with significant experience in the police force.
Your tutors will be able to provide you with academic advice and career mentoring to help you have a positive impact on your chosen career in the police.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/performing-arts/undergraduate-music-top-up:
Grasp new opportunities for creative music exploration and expression.
Improve your performance and presentation skills, your depth of subject knowledge and application, and your critical analysis and research skills.
This top-up course is designed to build on HND or Foundation Degree qualifications in music.
It combines degree-level theoretical studies with further training in musical performance, musicology, creative sound, and participatory practice.
The result is a mix of academic rigour and practical skills that makes our music course a stimulating journey of discovery, reflection, and achievement.
Teaching and learning methods encourage you to engage with theory and practice.
Feedback on performance and projects is supported by lectures, seminars, and workshop discussions.
Assessment methods include public performances, presentations, essays, and critical evaluations.
In this module, you’ll explore how music expresses ideas like identity, emotion, power and culture.
You’ll study real examples from songs and scores to videos and live shows, and ask how music communicates without words.
You’ll learn key tools to understand music, such as rhythm, melody, harmony and texture.
You’ll also apply these ideas through creative work, discussion and personal research.
Do you love singing or playing an instrument?
Want to perform live as part of a group?
This module helps you build your performance skills and confidence on stage.
In this module, you'll grow as a performer by developing your vocal or instrumental skills, learning to express emotion through music, and understanding what makes a performance connect with an audience.
You'll also explore how music can be experienced differently depending on the setting, and work as a group to create and deliver a live show.
What can sound do beyond music?
How can we use everyday noises to tell stories, build emotions, or challenge ideas?
In this module, you’ll explore sound as a creative tool.
You’ll learn how artists and composers use sound in exciting ways, from sound art and experimental music to sound design and field recordings.
You’ll discover new ways of listening and start thinking about sound as more than just something you hear.
What does it really take to work in the creative industries?
Explore real jobs in the creative world like media and design, music, art and fashion.
Uncover how the industry is changing, learn from experts, and discover what skills employers are looking for.
You'll be given a brief for a real-world project, with support from your tutor and experts in the industry.
Explore a potential job path and learn how to plan and deliver work professionally.
You'll also create an online portfolio or digital CV to show off your best work and help promote yourself as a creative professional.
Facilities for music and performing arts include:
The typical entry requirement is the successful completion of one of the following: BTEC HND in a subject related to music Foundation Degree in a subject related to music 240 credits or equivalent of a recognised UK undergraduate award in a relevant subject.
This course prepares you for roles in music-related areas of the creative industries, participatory arts, and arts management, as well as for entrepreneurship in the creative sector.
You could also undertake further training to become a music teacher.
The ‘Live Project’ module allows you to build up experience that attracts potential employers.
It could consist of touring new work, collaborating with youth organisations, or working with professional musicians.
The University has strong links with arts organisations throughout the North East.
These links are valuable in ensuring the relevance of our courses and in opening up opportunities for projects and placements.
The University of Sunderland is committed to ensuring that every student has an impressive range of opportunities to enhance their CV and gain valuable experience through:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-media-culture-comms:
Gain unique insight into cultural theory, mass communication, films, TV genres, and more.
Get skilled in critical analysis and build your independent judgement.
Build a foundation to launch your career in the media.
This course explores and explains the diverse patterns of media and offers a comprehensive understanding of media power, media use, and the increasing significance of media in contemporary culture and society.
Engage with a mix of critical approaches including cultural studies, communication studies, film studies, and media studies.
You'll also study a wide range of related topics including everyday life, popular culture, digital media cultures, cultural representation, and gender and ethnic identities and sexualities.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be guided and supported by our experts .
You’ll work with academics at the Centre for Research in Media and Cultural Studies and study alongside scriptwriters, filmmakers, radio producers, and independent film producers.
Many of the key books you'll learn from have been written by lecturers.
Gain a range of transferable skills including presentation skills, critical analysis, independent thinking, written and research skills, and the ability to work in groups and on your own.
In your final year, you'll put your skills and knowledge into practice in a major independent research project.
Please note,  we are only accepting applications for direct entry to Year 3.
Assessment methods include essays, reports, written coursework, projects, and presentations.
How do cultural industries shape what we watch, read, and listen to?
This module explores the power of film, music, fashion and more, by exploring how they influence society and respond to change.
You'll examine their role in social movements, shifting audiences, and the rise of niche markets to understand how culture and commerce work together, and why it matters.
This module introduces key media terms and concepts, helping you understand how media is made, funded, and controlled.
You’ll explore how global forces shape media companies, content creators, and audiences alike.
Who really holds the power in today’s media industries?
You’ll gain the tools to find out, and the confidence to talk about it clearly.
This module looks at what it takes to create professional content across journalism, PR, advertising, and more.
You’ll respond to real client briefs, plan strategically, and produce media for both niche and broad audiences.
What makes content truly effective?
You’ll learn to craft work that delivers creatively and professionally.
How do we tell powerful stories through images and video?
This module teaches you how to create striking photos and short films, working both on your own and in a team.
You’ll learn key skills in visual storytelling, such as planning, shooting, editing, and analysing your work.
By the end, you’ll understand how to craft strong visual messages and collaborate like a real production crew.
This module explores the power of fact based media across platforms from TV and radio to online news and social media.
You’ll analyse how media shapes public understanding, impacts democracy, and reflects key issues in today’s world.
How do facts become powerful stories?
You’ll learn to question, create, and communicate with purpose.
What does it take to create content that connects?
In this module, you’ll explore content creation strategies while making media across audio, video, and livestream platforms.
Through guided workshops, you’ll build technical skills in design, branding, and production.
You’ll follow real industry workflows and leave with a portfolio that shows both your creativity and your critical understanding of how content works.
How can we look deeper at the culture around us?
This module encourages you to question mainstream ideas and explore how culture reflects power and inequality.
You’ll use approaches from British Cultural Studies, like Marxism, feminism, and postmodernism, to analyse texts and everyday practices.
You’ll build the skills to create sharp, critical commentary on both popular and underground culture.
How does media shape our lives today?
This module explores the history and development of media research, focusing on its relevance in today’s rapidly changing technological landscape.
You’ll gain practical research skills through detailed case studies and have the option to complete a hands-on project or a placement.
By the end, you’ll have a solid understanding of how everyday media use influences identities, beliefs, and practices, along with useful research and problem-solving skills to apply in real-world scenarios.
What challenges does today’s media face?
This module covers the complexities of modern media from content creation to consumption.
You’ll explore how emerging practices are influenced by issues like regulation, ethics, and diversity, and examine how different platforms shape the work of both creators and consumers.
You’ll enhance your creative skills by applying your knowledge of trends, audience engagement, and digital workflows to produce content that fits your chosen industry.
This module explores cult media through genres like science fiction, horror, and fantasy, covering platforms such as TV, cinema, games, novels, and online media.
You’ll examine how cult status is achieved, the role of fan communities, and the cultural, political, and technological contexts that influence these works.
What makes certain media "cult" and why are they so appealing?
You’ll critically engage with key texts, case studies, and theoretical frameworks, gaining an advanced understanding of their aesthetics, reception, and legacy.
This module prepares you for a career in the media and communications industries by developing advanced skills in media production, project management, and critical analysis.
You’ll gain real-world experience through independent and team projects, as well as professional practices such as networking, teamwork, and client based work.
How can you make the transition from student to professional?
You’ll finish with a professional portfolio that demonstrates both industry level work and academic excellence, while reflecting on the ethical and legal considerations in media production.
This module allows you to carry out an independent research project, applying the theoretical knowledge and skills you’ve developed throughout your degree.
You’ll explore a topic of your choice in depth while honing critical thinking, project management, and academic writing skills.
How do you turn research into compelling, well structured work?
You’ll gain the ability to present your findings both in writing and through oral presentations, refining your approach to complex ideas and clear communication.
This degree provides an excellent foundation for a wide range of careers in the media.
Possible sectors include TV, radio, new media, journalism, marketing, PR, organisational communications, and advertising.
Our students have gained placements or graduate roles with employers such as BBC Radio 1, Capital FM, Channel 4, Heart FM, Metro Radio, Sky TV, BBC Sport, MTV, ITV Studios (Coronation Street), Talk Sport, The Guardian, Jamie Oliver Productions, Lime Pictures, Absolute Radio, BBC Radio 6 Music, I Daniel Blake, BBC World Service, regional newspapers, and PR companies.
You could choose to continue your studies on one of our master's degrees such as MA Radio, Audio and Podcasting or MA Public Relations .
We actively encourage students to gain relevant work experience while at university.
In Year 2, there's a work placement opportunity with a media organisation such as the BBC, Tyne Tees Television or one of the region’s production companies.
You can also choose to undertake a number of practice modules that involve practical projects.
All students studying on-campus undergraduate media courses can take up a CV-enhancing work placement, a University-led industry initiative, or a professional and business development boot camp.
Many students get involved in Spark Sunderland , a community radio station based at the University.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-glass-ceramics:
If you are applying for this course, click apply now.
Please note that we are only accepting applications for year 3 of this programme.
This exciting course embraces the possibilities of making for both art and design.
Glass and Ceramics are a focus, but you can work in other materials too, for example, wood, metal, plastic, and digital media.
You'll work in excellent individual student workspaces, bringing you into contact with professionals in the field, and will be able to take advantage of opportunities such as external competitions and exhibitions.
Please note, we are only accepting applications for direct entry to Year 3.
Your first year will introduce you to a range of traditional and contemporary craft skills, through staff led demonstrations and seminars as well as hands-on making.
You'll learn making skills, ideas development and about key subject themes – all of which will prepare you for self-negotiated projects in your second year where you'll learn about making for particular contexts as well as for exhibition.
You'll start to identify your own voice through your work as well as considering debates in the subject and professional practice.
The final year is significantly about developing your degree show work, reflecting on your practice, critically positioning your work and importantly planning for your future career.
While building the core skills of being an artist, designer or maker, this course also offers the chance for you to develop a broader range of skills and attitudes that can allow you to work in other areas.
These include: creative thinking, team working, presentation skills, writing skills, research skills, digital skills, and time management.
Throughout the course, you’ll be assessed through a range of studio practice, visual research – sketchbooks, technical notebooks, and contextual files, your professional development portfolio, written assignments and presentations to fellow students and staff.
Focus on skill acquisition to introduce a broad base of techniques:
Explore a variety of processes in glassmaking, ceramics, wood, metal and digital fabrication.
Experience the value of team-work in shared studio spaces.
Organise schedules for different making processes and accomplish new tasks to deadline.
Learn traditional making techniques, as well as more recent developments such as waterjet cutting, 3D printing and laser cutting.
Enhance your knowledge by researching technical processes used by other artists, designers and makers.
Gain the ability to use 3D design software and traditional drawing as tools to develop, research and design ideas.
Explore the basic aspects of both traditional and digital drawing.
Investigate processes of model making, testing of materials, and thinking skills to generate two bodies of work in response to a project brief.
Gain a greater understanding of what different material processes have to offer you and advance your technical and manipulative skills.
Develop your knowledge and understanding of the historical and contemporary contexts of art, design and making.
Explore the work of significant key practitioners - artists, designers and makers.
Understand the development of Modernism, Abstraction and Post Modernism and their relationship to movements in contemporary art, craft and design.
Learn how to communicate your understanding and build your confidence in research skills, writing and presentations.
Focus on development of professional transferable skills, understanding of contexts of practice and broader cultural issues, and of independent study and skills acquisition:
Develop a project that investigates space, place, context and audience.
Explore different modes of practice including socially engaged, site-specific and site-sensitive and working to commission for clients.
Identify and use appropriate skills and techniques in the manipulation of materials for a particular place, space, or context.
Learn analogue and digital (Rhino) model-making skills and develop testing methodologies to explore your ideas at smaller scale.
Develop confidence to pitch your ideas to intended audience and potential clients and learn how to use analogue and digital skills (Illustrator) to create a design board that charts your ideas visually.
Exhibit your work in a professional gallery (either online or in the gallery).
Explore your creative potential and extend your technical abilities through the creation of a body of work.
Develop, implement and reflect upon your own work, and exhibit as part of a group show hosted by Shipley Art Gallery and Museum in Gateshead.
Expand your knowledge of project management through helping to organise and curate the exhibition.
Develop your academic skills, including researching, reading and writing.
Build on your writing skills and plan a written argument.
Hear from professional artists through the weekly 'Creative Lives' programme.
Gain a unique insight into professional artists' practice and possible career pathways.
Alternatively, work with fellow students from across our different Arts disciplines to create a group negotiated creative outcome.
The final year is geared towards the presentation of a professional body of work for public exhibition at your degree show.
Experiment with a range of materials and processes.
Make a body of test pieces while developing a specialised understanding of your materials and the technologies required to develop your ideas into an object.
Record your research and experimentation in a testing folder to provide a solid reference for future work.
Explore how to realise your ideas in two dimensions through drawing and other image-making processes, and computer-aided modelling.
Produce a professionally presented portfolio of images and design proposals to display a clear narrative on the development of your ideas.
Present a prototype artwork or object.
Explore your creative potential and extend your technical abilities to a professional level.
Create work with a high degree of sophistication and conceptual rigour for online exhibitions.
Plan a scheme of work and manage your personal project.
Set and achieve goals, culminating in the production of a body of work with a personal creative identity.
Research and write a dissertation of 3500-4500 words that relates to themes and issues relevant to your studio practice or your career ambitions.
Demonstrate coherent specialist knowledge and understanding of the historical and contemporary themes/practices relevant to artists, designers and makers and how these relate to your independent work.
Evaluate the creative context in which you hope to work in the future and develop your understanding of the professional world in which you hope to work.
Develop a career planning portfolio that will help you launch your professional career on graduating.
Understand where your practice is placed within the creative industries and prepare yourself to enter your chosen sector.
Research the requirements and principles of self-employment and graduate employment.
Explore methods of recording and promoting your work and understand the principles of how to cost work realistically.
Learn how to produce a range of presentation and communication materials appropriate to present your practice in a professional manner to your intended audience.
Students also have access to facilities within FabLab on campus, which includes laser cutters, routers, milling machines, vinyl cutters and 3D printers.
You'll work in excellently equipped studios, giving you access to many events and exhibitions as well as visiting professionals (including artists, designers and makers).
You’ll be allocated your own workspace, in our open plan working areas which facilitates the learning community and allows students to learn and share knowledge freely.
If you are studying a HND or Foundation Degree you may be able to enter onto the final year of our degree courses.
Interview/portfolio requirements We’ll invite you to an informal interview to talk about your work, where we would like to see evidence of your creative potential.
Previous experience in glass, ceramics, or making is not essential.
We are not looking for perfection as we appreciate you are still developing work.
Your portfolio should be simply mounted and include: Art and design work completed in or outside of your studies A variety of art and design work – we want to see a range of styles and techniques Ideas that didn’t work Research: for example sketchbooks, scrapbooks of things that inspire you, or design sheets Photographs of 3D, and large 2D, work are acceptable A USB stick or online link with any digital and screen-based work Uncompleted or work in progress is also useful to see If you are an international applicant, please send a link to your online portfolio.
We’ll invite you to an informal interview to talk about your work, where we would like to see evidence of your creative potential.
We aim to develop you as a graduate who has the skills to work in diverse art, design and making contexts.
You are likely to develop a ‘portfolio career’ that might involve a mix of working as an artist for gallery exhibitions, a designer making work to commission for specific contexts, and a maker who can fabricate work for yourself or others.
Professional ‘real-world’ experience is central to this course.
This could include the chance to show your work in public exhibitions, undertake internships, work on real commissions, and competitions – all of which will help you to build a professional CV.
Our modules mirror the approach that professional artists will need to take in their careers.
These aspects of the course will present you with challenges through which you can build experience and confidence for your dynamic career in the creative industries.
Our links with the arts and creative industries are key to giving you the real world experience that will help your future career.
Our current links include Sunderland Arts Studio, British Ceramics Biennial, Arts Council England, Centre of Ceramic Art (CoCA), National Association for Ceramics in Higher Education (NACHE), Equal Arts, Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art (NGCA), Nissan, and the National Trust.
Our students have progressed from our Glass and Ceramics studios to work with London Glassblowing, Wanganui Glass School New Zealand, Devereux and Huskie Glassworks, GLASSTORM UK/Danish Studios, Angels' Share Glass, Cumbria Crystal, English Antique Glass, Antony Gormley Studio, Crafts Council, Sorrel Foundation, British Ceramics Biennale, and Hepworth Museum.
We encourage students to take part in competitions and they’ve had considerable success:
View Programme for Specifications for the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/healthcare-science-associate:
This apprenticeship has been developed through employer consultation, ensuring that the design and delivery meets the needs of employers and apprentices.
Delivered using a blended learning format that offers the flexibility for learners to study around occupational requirements.
The successful completion of this two-year apprenticeship will lead to the award of a Level 4 Diploma in Healthcare Science.
Delivered as part of the level 4 apprenticeship standard for Healthcare Science Associates this apprenticeship will provide the development of skills and knowledge required of a band 4 Healthcare Science Associate.
The successful completion of this programme also provide the opportunity to progress studies onto the level 6 Healthcare Science Practice Degree Apprenticeship , supporting professional development into a band 5 Healthcare Science Practitioner or Biomedical Scientist role.
The Healthcare Science (HCS) Associate workforce supports the work of colleagues in performing high quality, safe diagnostic, therapeutic, technical investigations and scientific procedures to support patient care.
Healthcare scientists can work directly in patient care and other indirect roles, either providing information for, or being part of multi professional teams.
This programme is embedded in clinical practice and promotes the development of competency in the relevant role specific specialisms.
This programme is currently designed for Pathology laboratory staff working in life science specialist areas.
Modules will be delivered using a blended learning format which we have developed to provide maximum flexibility for learners to study around the operational requirements of their job roles.
Most of the teaching will be delivered asynchronously via the virtual learning environment (Canvas).
This material will consist of recorded lectures by subject experts, slide packs prepared by University staff, and directed materials for self-study including targeted reading from websites, textbooks, and journal articles.
Learning will be arranged into two-week blocks and each will feature around:
Learners can complete this work at any time but will be supported by a one-hour live online tutorial every two weeks to explain the correct answers to the quiz.
This session will also allow the apprentices to discuss the material with other learners and ask any questions.
Practical scientific and analytical skills will be delivered through on-campus teaching blocks comprising workshops and laboratory classes.
These will run in blocks, with one in the first year and two blocks in the second year.
A range of assessment methods will be used to evidence the knowledge, skills, and behaviours required in the apprenticeship standard.
These include a professional portfolio of work-based learning, MCQ exam, patient information leaflet, and laboratory report.
Gain the fundamental and professional skills required of a healthcare scientist.
Work with real patients and develop an understanding of the patient journey and aspects of their care.
Undertake investigations in your own self-awareness and equip yourself with tools for personal development to promote employability, while developing your knowledge and understanding in the field of healthcare science relevant for today's NHS.
Develop the clinical skills required of a healthcare scientist associate by working in an NHS environment relevant to your discipline.
You will begin to develop professional knowledge, technical skills and attitudes, values and behaviours required for good scientific practice.
You will also become aware of the importance of quality assurance, teamwork, communication and multi-disciplinary working to meet service need and provide high quality patient-centred care.
Develop your understanding of the key biological process which underpin life.
You will learn how molecular composition dictates the biological function of organic molecules.
You will examine the relationship of cell organelles and their functions with the human genome and how the genetic code is expressed resulting in changes in cell signalling, division, differentiation and death.
From this you will develop a basic understanding of the main human physiological systems, and how they interact on a holistic level in order to maintain normal body function.
Changes in these systems in response to disease and infection will be introduced, as will an understanding of how the patient’s reaction to illness can be measured by a healthcare scientist
Further your development of clinical skills required of a healthcare scientist associate.
You will work in an NHS environment relevant to your discipline to develop more advanced professional knowledge and technical required by the NHS.
You will deepen your understanding of importance of quality assurance, teamwork, communication, and multi-disciplinary working to meet service need and provide high quality patient-centred care.
Employed by a supporting NHS Trust or Private organisation for a minimum of 30 hours a week as an HCS Associate apprentice, or equivalent position Have a designated work-based learning supervisor who will support the applicant for the duration of the programme Hold at least 5 GCSEs at grades 4-9 or above Applicants must hold Maths and English GCSE at a minimum of Grade C or numerical grade 4 to 9 (or equivalent) Is your qualification not displaying here?
On-campus workshops and laboratory practical classes will be delivered in three blocks of four days across the programme; one in year 1 and two in year 2.
The programme team recommends that learners from outside the north-east region may need to seek nearby hotel accommodation for nine nights with an approximate cost of £450.
This course maps to the key skills, knowledge and behaviours of the Healthcare Science Associate level 4 apprenticeship standard.
There is an opportunity to progress studies to a level 6 Healthcare Science Practice Degree Apprenticeship, entering onto the second year of study.
Completion of the Level 6 degree apprenticeship can lead to band 5 roles as a Healthcare Science Practitioner or Biomedical Scientist.
Page last updated:  03 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/enhanced-clinical-practitioner:
The Enhanced Clinical Practitioner (ECP) programme allows you to develop ECP competencies aligned to the knowledge, skills and behaviours identified in the apprenticeship occupational standards, within your scope of practice.
The programme aims to equip you with the skills and knowledge needed to elevate your skills and knowledge to an enhanced level of practice within a multi-disciplinary team.
The development of this programme is driven by national and local NHS strategic workforce development and in response to the availability of a new apprenticeship standard for this role within health and social care.
This includes non-NHS settings such as forensic, social, and prison services.
The apprenticeship standard is not profession specific and is generic in nature, reflecting the diverse requirement of enhanced practice.
You will normally already be employed within a particular area of clinical practice, and this course aims to equip you with enhanced skills to effectively contribute to a discrete part of the patient’s journey.
ECP’s will work across a range of specialisms and the competency framework employed in the programme allows the apprentice, the university, and the employer to set appropriate work-based competencies that will mirror the enhanced role within the practice environment, and to provide a sound knowledge base on which to do this.
The course covers aspects that are particular to all ECP (such as service improvement and health literacy) and aspects that are specific to a particular clinical role such as clinical risk management.
The course content includes:
Assessment during the programme consists of ongoing (or continuous) assessment in skill development in clinical practice, developing a learning plan for other staff, and a knowledge portfolio.
This apprenticeship will run for 13 months with an additional three months allocated for the completion of an End-point Assessment.
There will be a range of learning strategies employed throughout the modules, which will include flipped classroom, keynote lectures, seminars, problem-based/case-based learning, simulation, involvement of Patient, Carer and Public partnerships within the programme providing the learner with opportunities for engagement and success.
There is a range of assessments that include a portfolio, work-based competency assessment and professional development plan .
These directly feed into your final End-Point Assessment as required by the apprenticeship occupational standard.
The programme consists of three modules, each of 20 credits.
The overall award is a Post-graduate certificate made up of 60 credits, at level 7.
There are no optional modules within this programme.
This module has been designed to help you develop key transferable skills required as an enhanced clinical practitioner.
You’ll engage with the evidence base that underpins your clinical practice, educational, and leadership roles in your clinical area.
You’ll have the opportunity to enhance your writing skills to the level required of postgraduate study and you’ll begin to engage with the evidence base required for enhanced practice within your scope of practice.
Develop your leadership and educational skills which are essential to the role of an enhanced clinical practitioner.
This will be achieved through critically engaging with the evidence base underpinning your role in your clinical area, helping you to be a better leader and clinical educator.
Build on the key skills required of your role as an enhanced clinical practitioner through engaging with the evidence base that will underpin your clinical practice.
You’ll also have the opportunity to put the patient management, educational, and leadership skills developed in earlier modules into practice.
The course will be delivered primarily on-line.
There may be a small number of clinical sessions and these will be delivered at City Campus Sunderland.
You should hold a first degree (e.g., BSc (Hons) or equivalent.
However, applicants without this are welcome to discuss their application with the programme leader.
You should also be registered with the appropriate professional and/or regulatory body (e.g., NMC, HCPC, etc.) and employed within a trainee ECP role.
Your employer should provide a job role/description before enrolment (or develop one in tandem with the programme team), and employers must support the applicant.
This programme is suitable for students to enter with advanced standing (eg APL).
Enhanced Clinical Practice (ECP) will work alongside Advanced Clinical Practice .
It is a destination role in its own right, offering services and patients a consistent level of expertise, working in discrete areas of patient pathways.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences/postgraduate-sport-exercise-science:
Help elite athletes reach their optimum sports performance or improve fitness through exercise referral and community programmes.
Specialise in both those areas through a solid grounding in grounding in data visualisation and interpretation, advanced sport and exercise sciences and contemporary issues in sport.
Build a portfolio of work that will give you a clear advantage when applying for jobs.
The course mixes taught elements with independent research and self-directed study.
There is flexibility to pursue personal interests in considerable depth, with guidance and inspiration from supportive tutors.
By the end of the course, you will have a portfolio of work, feedback from clients/employers, and a record of practical and academic projects.
Compared to undergraduate studies, this Masters has more emphasis on self-directed lab work, data collection and analysis.
We encourage you to undertake real-world internships and build up experience with external clients and sports clubs.
This practical experience will complement the rigorous research elements of the course.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, problem-based learning seminars, web-based resources, small group discussions and debates.
You will develop your practical skills with workshops and laboratory classes.
Assessment methods include essays, case studies, portfolios, oral presentations, scientific reports, practical exams, data analyses, critical reviews, poster presentations and a dissertation.
Sunderland's outstanding facilities include laboratories with the latest fitness state of the art equipment and technology.
We have invested in the latest software and equipment so that you have maximum scope to measure and improve performance.
Our facilities will propel your learning in sport and exercise sciences.
The University recognises the value of professional experience.
Prospective students with appropriate professional experience may claim an exemption for up to 50% of the taught elements through Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning.
Recent Sunderland graduates are now working within the fitness industry, sports development and in Further Education colleges.
Potential employers include national sports associations, sports and leisure companies, recreation services, local authorities, health bodies including the NHS, and schools and colleges.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/msc-pharmaceutical-biopharmaceutical-formulations:
This is one of the few master's courses in the UK that covers biopharmaceuticals as well as pharmaceuticals.
Study innovative ways to improve the health and wellbeing of our society.
Enjoy the flexibility to pursue personal interests in considerable depth.
The course covers drug delivery systems for large molecules such as proteins, genes and anticancer drugs that offer innovative ways to improve the health and wellbeing of our society.
It also covers advanced formulations and delivery of small drug molecules, and there is a focus on nanotechnology, dosage forms, pharmacokinetics and data analysis.
This course is particularly relevant if you plan to undertake a PhD in the area of pharmaceutical sciences, biopharmaceuticals or drug delivery.
It is also suitable if you are considering, or already involved in, a career in pharmaceutical-related industries, hospitals or research institutions.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, problem-based learning, laboratory work, group work and visits to relevant companies.
We also welcome guest speakers from the pharmaceutical industry who deliver guest lectures and seminars.
Assessment methods include written examinations, online tests and coursework, which includes oral and poster presentations.
You'll cover different types of dosage forms, advanced physiology, preformulation, pharmacokinetics and quality control tests.
You will also cover research design and methodology, good manufacturing practice, laboratory safety standards, ethics in research, and organisational and communication skills.
You'll gain an overview of advances in biotechnology, protein purification, gene, protein and vaccine delivery.
You will also gain essential background knowledge for evaluation and advanced analysis of protein formulations.
In this module, you'll cover the formulation of nanoparticles, chemotherapeutics, polymer therapeutics, drug eluting stent development and drug delivery via the nose and inhalation.
It will also cover the skills for writing and presenting posters and managing mini research projects.
You'll study computational and statistical methods used in chemical analysis and quality control.
You'll complete a research project under the supervision of a recognised expert in the relevant field.
You may have the opportunity to complete the project in collaboration with a pharmaceutical company.
Sunderland's exceptional facilities include state-of-the-art equipment for pharmaceutics, synthetic, analytical and medicinal chemistry and pharmacology.
We invite applications from holders of, or those who hope to be awarded at least a second class honours degree in a relevant subject such as pharmacy, chemistry, pharmaceutical sciences, biochemistry, pharmacology, or a related discipline.
We also accept equivalent qualifications from other countries.
Sunderland is well-regarded by employers in the pharmaceutical sector.
We have worked with GSK for over 20 years.
On completing this course you will be equipped with the skills and understanding needed for research and development roles with employers such as:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/msc-drug-discovery-development:
Contribute to the discovery and development of drugs that could potentially improve the health and well-being of millions of people.
Join a field where the UK has long been a leader and study in one of the country’s top locations for pharmaceutical science.
This course is an innovative, industry-orientated taught Masters programme offering a broad coverage of the pharmaceutical sciences with scope for developing a specialisation in pharmaceutics, pharmaceutical analysis or drug design.
In the context of current global pharmaceutical R&D, the course covers advanced pharmaceutics, pharmaceutical analysis, drug design, pharmacology, the biology of disease, proteomics and pharmacogenomics.
You will also cover regulatory processes for medicines, in line with ICH guidelines.
It is a direct response to employers’ search for postgraduates who have the optimum mix of theoretical and practical skills to be able to make an immediate contribution to frontline modern drug development.
The course mixes taught elements in a compact timetable with self-directed research.
The topic of the project or dissertation is designed collaboratively to fit both your personal interests and the expertise of Sunderland's supportive tutors.
It will involve typical industry-style problem solving perhaps even with pharmaceutical company partnership.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, open learning, laboratory work and group work.
The Masters project may involve collaboration with a pharmaceutical or related company.
Previous projects have involved collaborations with the British Pharmacopoeia and companies such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Helena Biosciences, ThermoScientific and Agilent Technologies.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this Masters requires a higher level of independent working and problem solving.
Assessment methods include laboratory reports, oral presentations, case studies, critical reviews, examinations and the Masters project.
You’ll study in depth the concepts of quantitative and qualitative research methods including analysis of qualitative and quantitative data, scientific method, hypothesis testing, experimental design, sampling, ethical issues, techniques of measurement and statistical analysis, interviewing skills, and questionnaire design.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to recognise ethical, theoretical, methodological, and logistical considerations associated with the design of research studies, can perform an in-depth literature search, and the ability to make deductions from scientific and related data and communicate them.
Sunderland's exceptional facilities include state-of-the-art equipment for pharmaceutics, medicinal chemistry and pharmaceutical analysis.
This course is based in The John Dawson Sciences Complex at our City Campus, which boasts multi-disciplinary laboratories and cutting-edge equipment thanks to multi-million pound investments.
Applications are welcome from holders of a good Honours degree (2:2 or above) in one of the following subject areas: pharmacology, pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmacy, biomedical sciences, or a related subject.
Alternative qualifications may be considered if supported by relevant experience.
Previous Sunderland graduates have been employed in companies such as GSK, Eisai, Reckitt Benckiser, Merck, Sharp & Dohme, Covance and Norbrook Laboratories.
Given the breadth of pharmaceutical experience afforded by the course, overseas students have found particular success in regulatory, quality assurance and pharmacovigilance positions on returning to their home country.
It should also be noted that the course has provided an excellent platform for graduates wishing to continue their studies through research towards a PhD.
Graduates from this course can pursue a variety of careers in the following areas: Drug Design, Pharmaceutical Analysis and Research, Pre-clinical Research in Experimental and Biological Studies, Formulation and Product Development, Pharmacogenomics and Proteomics, Clinical Research, Product Registration, Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/msc-cosmetic-science:
Progress from our established BSc (Hons) Cosmetic Science course or a related discipline such as chemical engineering or chemistry.
This course will equip you with the skills needed to work in the cosmetics, personal care and fragrance industries in the UK and around the world, including formulation, quality control, safety and claims substantiation testing, regulatory framework, and business skills.
You will be taught by a wide range of academic staff and selected external experts, allowing you to gain skills and knowledge in a thematically coherent manner via lectures, teamwork, group presentations, new product development exercises, dermatology, and working in skin and hair technology labs.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, group tasks, problem-based learning (PBL) and lab experiments.
Assessment methods include written PBL group presentations, written examinations (both open and closed book), lab reports and a lab-based creative project.
You will take four 30-credit modules in Stages 1 and 2, and a 60-credit Research Project in Stage 3.
Develop a critical understanding of the legal framework and regulatory bodies for advertising cosmetic products and perfumes and how these regulations differ amount countries.
Gain awareness of the updated regulations in relation to animal studies and alternative testing methods.
Expand your evaluative skills on how advertising claims are supported by the appropriate claim substantiation testing of products, based on the statistical analysis of consumer and scientific data.
Gain expertise and initiative to devise a process for the design of a cosmetic product, taking specific regulatory requirements into consideration.
Enhance your knowledge of the formulation principles for skincare and haircare cosmetics, and personal care products, decorative products, and fragrances.
Gain analytical and evaluative skills of the manufacturing principles of cosmetics including lab-scale and industrial-scale manufacture, types of equipment, and techniques involved in quality control testing, amongst others.
Display the ability to make informed decisions on new product development tasks, from raw material selection to critical evaluation of formulation scale-up and manufacturing processes, packaging, and marketing.
Examine the business and marketing framework in the cosmetic industry, as well as the importance of time management, multitasking, and the ability to communicate information accurately to specialist and non-specialist audiences.
Build on the evaluative skills involved in project management, planning, and product development.
Enhance your knowledge of planning and developing the relevant documentation for a new product and demonstrate accountability in executing the marketing of a cosmetic product in different countries.
Learn more about the physiology of healthy and diseased skin, modes of skin aging, the interplay between genetic, hormonal, and environmental factors, the structure of healthy and damaged hair, ethnic differences in hair structure, hair product testing techniques, and other related topics.
Gain evaluative skills in the application of appropriate methods to analyse skin and hair properties for claim substantiation testing and critically assess and interpret the data produced with respect to cosmetic products’ usage.
Display critical awareness of the advances at the forefront of a specific area of the cosmetic science discipline, including an understanding of specialised areas of cosmetic science.
Develop research skills by successfully designing, conducting, and writing up a piece of independent research.
Demonstrate expertise in the defence of the final research output and the ability to disseminate research findings to an expert audience.
The laboratory infrastructure in The John Dawson Sciences Complex supports all of the practical components of the curriculum, including:
We invite applications from holders of or those who hope to be awarded at least a second class honours degree in a relevant subject such as cosmetic science, science, technology, engineering, and maths.
As a Cosmetic Science graduate, you'll have a wide range of employment options in the cosmetic and related pharmaceutical industries.
Sunderland is well-regarded by employers in the pharmaceutical sector and have worked with GSK for over 20 years.
The cosmetics and personal care industry is looking for appropriately trained cosmetic scientists; this is evidenced in wide-ranging vacancies worldwide.
The current BSc Cosmetic Science course utilises a number of specialist speakers drawn from a cross-section of the industry and these contacts have highlighted a need for appropriately qualified graduates at both graduate and postgraduate levels in their specialist areas.
This course has been designed in consultation with our partners to ensure a relevant and contemporary curriculum, enabling you to develop the academic knowledge and practical skills required by companies involved in the regulation, manufacture, safety, marketing and distribution of cosmetic products.
Page last updated:  17 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-terrorism-cyber-warfare:
This Terrorism and Cyber Warfare LLM allows you to develop specialist knowledge in counter-terrorism and cyberterrorism provisions, by examining how they operate within England and Wales.
You'll delve into some of the global challenges that arise when facing threats from terrorism, cyberterrorism and cyber warfare and critically consider the responses that have followed terrorist events.
Throughout your studies, you'll be supported by a teaching team with extensive research experience in terrorism and cyber warfare.
Taught by supportive and passionate staff with years of experience in practice
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include weekly three-hour workshops.
These are interactive and require a high level of preparation.
The research project and dissertation are supervised by your tutor.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this masters course requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment is by written coursework, usually a 5,000 word essay for each taught module.
You’ll be based at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s, on the banks of the River Wear.
The campus is within minutes walking distance from the coast.
You’ll have access to excellent library resources and comprehensive facilities.
We usually require you to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree in a relevant area.
We also welcome applications from students who have experience in a range of disciplines and professional backgrounds.
To discuss your application, please get in touch and the Programme Leader will be able to advise.
This LLM course equips you with advanced skills and knowledge in a specialised area of law.
As a result, you will have an important edge when applying for roles in the Crown Prosecution Service, human rights organisations, international campaigning groups and other areas related to the legal profession.
Salaries of law graduates are among the highest of all graduates.
You’ll also be better equipped for applying for training contracts or pupillages if this is appropriate to your career.
As part of the Faculty of Law, you will be able to join the University of Sunderland Student Law Society which will give you access to law society career events, newsletters, and discounted social events.
You will also be able to attend events put on by our research hub which includes our guest speaker programme, and you will have the opportunity to be involved with our student journal: the Sunderland Journal of Law and Criminology.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-commercial-law-trade:
Develop a framework of detailed commercial legislation.
Understand the legal structures which govern international commerce.
Graduate and embark on a successful career.
This Commercial Law and International Trade course will set you on track for a successful career in law and help you develop valuable skills employers look for, including ‘Advanced Legal Skills’, ‘International Perspectives in Law’ and ‘Commercial Law and International Trade’.
The course mixes taught elements with independent research, and you can negotiate the topic for your dissertation to fit both your personal interests and the supervisory expertise of Sunderland's tutors.
A typical week for you will include weekly three-hour workshops.
You’ll be supervised by your tutor when carrying out your research project and dissertation.
Your progress will be assessed by written coursework, usually a 5,000 word essay for each taught module.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you’ll find that this Masters course requires a higher level of independent working.
As a result you will have an important edge when applying for roles in the Crown Prosecution Service, police, and prison or probation services.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-criminal-law-procedure:
Develop thorough knowledge of criminal law and procedure.
Undertake specialist postgraduate legal training.
Graduate and embark on higher-level roles within the legal profession.
The Law Department at Sunderland is well-respected, and our Master of Laws will add to your credentials in an area in which you already practise or are proposing to work.
On this course, you’ll undertake two core modules: ‘Criminal Law and Justice’ and ‘International Perspectives in Law’.
You will also choose a further two options that match your particular career ambitions and intellectual interests.
You will be taught by passionate academics who produce internationally-excellent research.
A typical week for you will include a wide variety of teaching and learning methods, including weekly three-hour workshops.
We usually require you to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree or equivalent in Law or a related discipline.
Salaries of law graduates are among the highest of all graduates, and this course will give you an important edge when applying for roles in the Crown Prosecution Service, police, and prison or probation services.
You’ll also be better equipped for applying for training contracts or pupillages if this is appropriate to your career stage.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-international-human-rights:
Develop a thorough knowledge of human rights.
Specialise in a specific field of law.
This Law LLM will set you on track for a successful career in law and help you develop valuable skills employers look for, including ‘Advanced Legal Skills’ and ‘International Perspectives in Law’.
The course mixes taught elements with independent research, and you can negotiate the topic of your dissertation project to fit both your personal interests and the supervisory expertise of Sunderland's tutors.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this Masters course requires a higher level of independent working.
Here you’ll have access to excellent library resources and comprehensive facilities.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-law:
Investigate and apply theories, principles and rules of international law.
You’ll also undertake a research project and dissertation which are supervised by your tutor.
You’ll be based at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s on the banks of the River Wear, within walking distance of the coast.
As a result, you’ll have an important edge when applying for roles in the Crown Prosecution Service, police, and prison or probation services.
You’ll also be better equipped for applying for training contracts or pupillages, if this is appropriate to your career stage.
In addition a Masters degree will enhance opportunities in academic roles or further study towards a PhD.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/ma-mbm-msc-extended:
If you wish to apply for MSc International Business Management 15 months - November 2025 intake, click apply now.
Course starts: 03 November 2025 Apply now
If you wish to apply for MSc International Business Management 15 months - July 2026 intake, click apply now.
Course starts: 01 July 2026 Apply now
Fast track your career in business, marketing, or human resource management with this extended course designed to enable third-class degree holders to pursue a postgraduate qualification.
Demonstrate your value to employers.
The course prepares you for senior roles and your aim is to accelerate your progress towards well-paid positions of leadership.
On completion of the first term, you can transfer to a range of postgraduate courses, including:
Please click 'apply now' to see which courses are currently open for application.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, tutorials, group work, directed study, and independent learning and will be conducted in and out of the Centre.
You'll be given guided learning hours, but should note that not all of the hours will be conducted in the classroom setting.
You'll be actively encouraged to research using problem solving and critical thinking skills.
The Extended course normally requires 15 months of full-time study.
However, as well as the final award, there are two interim awards available to those wishing to leave the course having gained 60 master's-level credits (excluding PGBM001) – a postgraduate certificate, or 120 master's-level credits (excluding PGBM001) – a postgraduate diploma.
Undertake a project relevant to your chosen course.
This module will assess your ability to apply your knowledge of the sector, use appropriate analytical skills to investigate a sector-related topic, and solve problems.
The module will provide you with a firm understanding of the methods and methodology used in postgraduate-level research and the study skills necessary to select relevant sources of information, analyse data, and implement research.
60 credits
Ran separately on MA Marketing – 45 credits and 15 credits
You'll be based at ON CAMPUS Sunderland, which is located at City Campus, during term one.
You'll then move to the Reg Vardy Centre at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter’s for the remainder of the course.
To apply for this course, you'll need a Third Class Honours degree, or equivalent.
Overseas applicants must have a score of 6.0 on the British Council Testing Scheme.
The course prepares you for senior roles in business, marketing, human resource management, finance, and more.
Your final award will be MA Marketing , MSc Human Resource Management , or MSc Finance and Management .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-marketing:
Boost your career with a CIM-accredited postgraduate qualification.
Use your new knowledge and skills to make a positive difference to your organisation.
Qualify for more senior marketing positions.
MA Marketing draws on the latest marketing research to provide you with a highly practical postgraduate degree.
You'll study the latest thinking in strategic marketing management and also have the option to study topics such as e-marketing, consumer research, social media, analytics, and digital research.
This degree is ideal for marketers who are ready to take the next step in their careers, or professionals in other fields who want to move into marketing.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards, and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
The University has joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM Accredited Degree partnership.
CIM qualifications are highly sought-after by employers and their content is reflected in our own degrees which ensures we're equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
This course is also offered with an optional 12-month work placement for an additional fee (24-month total course duration).
See MA Marketing (Professional Practice) .
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops, class discussions, and case study exercises.
You'll have a Peer Learning Support Group (PLSG) where you'll be able to work with other students and support each other.
Develop analytical, evaluative, digital, and lifelong learning skills by investigating a pertinent problem in business by exploring a range of relevant literature.
Work autonomously and apply research methods to design an appropriate research project, managing and carrying out the research.
Gain transferable skills which can be directly applied to your future career.
When you graduate from this MA Marketing course, you’ll be ready to step into a senior marketing role in a wide range of industries.
As a marketing professional, you could work in-house for an organisation or find a role in a specialist marketing agency.
Business graduates have secured roles in organisations such as Facebook, Microsoft, Sage, HSBC, IBM, Enterprise, Nissan, Accenture, Procter & Gamble, Merck & Co, Barclays, Marriott Hotels, Viacom 18, PricewaterCoopers, and Adidas.
The optional MA Marketing placement route is a 12-month taught course followed by a 12-month work placement, facilitated by the University.
Following the two semesters of teaching, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a placement to utilise and demonstrate your skills and knowledge in a work environment.
The University will support you in securing a paid placement or work experience.
Our dedicated faculty placements team is well-connected with regional and national employers and, each year, places candidates in roles including marketing, human resources, finance, operations, and supply-chain positions.
Securing a paid work placement is a competitive process and we'll help you with the selection process from application to interview.
In addition, you'll have the opportunity to compete against students at other universities at the annual Greggs Marketing challenge competition and get practical marketing experience working with live client briefs at Sunderland Marketing Hub , a facility that brings students, businesses, and marketing academics at the University together to work on real marketing projects.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/med-higher-education:
Study for an internationally recognised degree in Higher Education.
Learn about teaching, learning, and curriculum design, as well as how to manage complex issues.
Graduate prepared to become a leading contemporary teacher.
This Master of Education (Higher Education) offers you the ability to study a wide range of topics relevant to educating academic staff working in Higher Education.
By undertaking the full master's degree, you'll examine an aspect of pedagogical practice in detail, using educational research methods.
The Master of Education (Higher Education) course uses a mix of lectures, group-based seminars and interactive workshop activities, and action learning sets.
Online quizzes and self-directed learning will also support your learning experience.
You will be assessed using multiple methods reflecting the underpinning principles of universal design for learning, including essay format, a spoken individual presentation, written module document and verbal defence, reflective account, presentation, a written research proposal, and an independent project report.
The course is taught on a part-time basis, on a Thursday from 9am-3pm in year 1, and on a Tuesday from 9am-3pm in year 2.
Be introduced to academic practice with an overview of learning theories, practical classroom teaching and learning approaches, and a range of pedagogical approaches.
Explore key theories in learning and teaching in the context of your own academic practice.
Engage in technology enhanced learning both in use and pedagogy.
Review your progress and plan your development as a teacher and academic in a peer-supportive environment.
Gain insight into the theory behind approaches to learning and teaching within Higher Education, such as gamification, object-based learning and more traditional approaches.
Develop your skills and confidence in delivering learning using these methods.
Learn to meet the needs of a diverse range of learners with a variety of needs and learning preferences.
Develop your applied research capabilities by means of a substantive dissertation project or systematic review of literature surrounding a chosen topic.
You'll be allocated a project supervisor with whom you'll negotiate an appropriate topic relevant to their academic practice.
Focus on your leadership and management skills and explore approaches to student retention, attainment and progression.
Learn how to manage the operational issues of module or course delivery, set against a higher educational landscape of change and policy constraints.
Study change management theory and develop your academic practice to successfully navigate and respond effectively to this context of practice.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a 2:2 honours degree.
Applicants must be in a role which includes a full range of academic responsibilities in line with the UK Professional Standards Framework dimensions and which includes at least 100 hours of face-to-face scheduled teaching each year.
This course is suitable for applicants to enter with advanced standing (eg APL).
Only where all of the course learning outcomes to the level of a particular exit award have been met will APL be permitted.
We advise all potential applicants to have an informal phone or Skype call with the course leader before applying to ensure that the course learning outcomes can be achieved and that the route is suitable for you.
Please email claire.hoy@sunderland.ac.uk to arrange this.
Fees are £4,250.
Please note, part-time courses aren't available to international applicants who require a student visa to study in the UK.
On completion of the Master of Education course, you may look to find employment at Higher Education institutions, teaching across a range of year groups.
This course is aimed at academic staff in Higher Education, working to the relevant regulations and organisational requirements.
It is designed to develop your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and as such, be able to offer student-centred teaching and learning experiences.
Page last updated:  14 November 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-education-dl:
MA Education (DL)
MA Education (Early Years DL)
Become a specialist in Education.
Expand your knowledge.
Broaden your career options.
The content of the MA Education (DL) course is entirely delivered through distance learning, making it a very flexible way to achieve a master's qualification, whether you're studying in the UK or overseas.
The degree will enable you to develop your own professional practice and provide you with the opportunity to acquire advanced research and study skills.
The course will equip you for various roles within teaching and educational management.
This programme is taught using web-based materials.
Many modules have quite open content so that you have the flexibility to pursue your personal interests.
If you're studying for the MA Education (DL) degree, you can learn from anywhere in the world that has good internet access, as learning materials will be e-books, online journal papers and other online resources.
Compared to an undergraduate programme, you will find that a master's degree requires a higher level of independent working.
Assessment methods include written assignments and a 15,000-word master's dissertation.
Develop a critical understanding of how an aspect of your specialist subject can be further enhanced through pedagogical practice and theoretical research.
Critically examine your subject within a professional context and seek to analyse existing provision, improving that provision through theory, research, and practice.
Carry out substantial practitioner research which will be further enhanced by in depth analysis of practice in relation to existing research and critical evaluation.
Examine the issues relating to the human elements within the audit, planning and implementation of organisational change in an educational establishment.
Explore topics such as the complexities of the principles of leadership, leadership roles and responsibilities, when determining the need for change in an educational establishment.
Investigate the issues relating to effective human and material resourcing, the implications of human resistance to change and the influence of motivational skills when attempting to resolve under-performance.
Examine educational assessment theory in relation to the practice which you are involved in your own educational setting.
Consider current assessment theories and trends, as well as the construction and development of assessment policy around these theories and trends.
Design, implement and evaluate specific assessment instruments within your own context.
Gain knowledge of current research around children’s learning and associated modes of teaching.
Reflect upon your own professional practice and consider the potential of introducing alternative teaching and learning experiences.
Consider the nature and contribution of different types of assessment and explore major psychological theories of learning with reference to the social foundations of cognitive development.
We also expect you to have experience of teaching or training, following your graduation from your first degree.
Fees are £8,500.
Please note, if you're a UK student, you can apply for SLC funding if you choose to study the part-time course, on campus, over two years or the full-time course over one year.
On completing the MA Education (DL) course, your skills and understanding will be enhanced for roles in teaching, educational management, and other educational settings.
In the UK, higher salaries are available for those who develop their professionalism and achieve the status of Excellent Teacher or Advanced Skills Teacher.
You will explore how to critically construct an Early Years Curriculum and identify skills that will enhance your ability to transfer learning to further study and to the workplace.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/postgraduate-radio:
Springboard yourself into a career behind the mic or behind the scenes.
Get practical experience in radio production, presentation, and station management.
Graduate with skills that are relevant not only, in radio, audio, and podcasting, but in the growing and developing world of audio production.
Radio and podcast production is still a major growth area in the audio sector and this master's course offers great opportunities to gain the skills required to stand out from the crowd.
The course is integrated with our award-winning radio station, Spark Sunderland , and offers practical experience in radio production, presentation, and station management, alongside opportunities to create your own creative podcasts and podcasts for external clients.
The production modules cover a variety of genres including live studio and feature production, podcasting, multiplatform, and visualisation skills.
You'll learn how to pitch ideas to specific audiences, budgeting, research, advanced interviewing, editing, and creative post-production techniques.
This highly practical vocational coursework will be supported by contextual studies.
The final stage of the course takes the form of research leading to a major practical project or a dissertation with a contextual report and evaluation.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, workshops, and practical demonstrations.
Your active involvement in our on-campus radio station, Spark Sunderland, is integral to your learning experience, as well as a commitment to practical podcast production projects.
Theory and practice will go hand in hand as you plan, undertake, and evaluate projects, podcasts, and programmes.
You'll have high levels of contact with tutors, who give regular feedback and support, and you'll also work in groups to develop skills in communication and teamwork.
Assessment methods include essays, projects, presentations, and a major project/dissertation.
Radio is a resilient medium, constantly reinventing itself, and the industry is evolving fast, creating new opportunities for audio producers in broadcast, online, and podcasting sectors.
You'll be introduced to the contextual history of radio, radio studies, radio management and podcast studies and engage in current debates about radio, audio and podcasting.
You'll develop critical reading and essay writing skills, knowledge and understanding of the different sectors of the UK radio and audio industries.
You'll also develop skills and awareness of key roles in radio, producing and managing content and people, in community radio and other broadcast/online projects in the mediaHUB and our multi-award winning University community radio station, Spark.
The expansion of podcasting means that creative audio skills are more relevant than ever.
Learn the core skills you need to plan and produce creative work for established radio networks and these new digital spaces.
Gain the research and production skills to enable you to develop and produce your own portfolio of audio content, including skills in visualisation.
We will also give experiences to help you navigate the process used to pitch skills to the BBC, where you will get feedback from experienced producers.
The BBC have commissioned programmes pitched to this module including ‘The Egg Dealer’ and ‘A Journey Through English’.
Will your idea be next?
Whether you intend to work in the BBC, in commercial radio, in podcasting or as a freelance creative producer, this module will enable you to develop and realise audio, radio and podcasting projects.
These projects will be supported by visiting industry speakers and workshops that will develop your knowledge and skills of managing programming, broadcast and online content, people, partnerships and resources.
You will also explore business opportunities within the creative audio sector and develop skills to evaluate and critique your work and develop critical management skills for different sectors of the radio, audio and podcasting industries.
Media Law and compliance workshops with direct relevance to broadcast and online will prepare you for identifying potential issues and pitfalls in live and prerecorded work.
This module will teach you the skills to make your podcast stand out amongst the boundless competition; the radio industry may feel like a gated community but we’ll give you the keys to unlock your potential in creative audio production.
You will take your podcast and radio production skills to the next level – producing creative content for Spark and other distribution platforms.
You will create a portfolio of work that challenges the current and established formats in the audio industry and beyond.
In this final module, you will consolidate your experiences into a final project that showcases your skills as a content creator.
It might be that you want to produce creative drama, or explore stories or ideas through documentary.
You might want to show your skills as a live radio producer by creating work on Spark, or even manage projects at the station.
Equally, you could use that great podcast idea you have and produce it as part your first step into the world of freelancing.
But, don’t be limited by our ideas, this is your chance to make your mark and develop your niche!
We are the is the only university in the North of England with a full-time community radio licence.
Spark Sunderland broadcasts from our purpose-built studios.
Volunteer with award winning Spark Sunderland, write for one of our suite of websites or edit Spark Magazine in our MediaHUB.
Applications are welcome from holders of an honours degree in a relevant subject.
All applicants should be able to demonstrate practical, critical, and conceptual skills.
Students requiring the necessary practical skills are encouraged to attend undergraduate modules in radio or the Radio Summer School.
If English isn't your first language, you'll need an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) overall score of 6.5, with at least 5.5 in each component: reading, writing, listening, and speaking (or equivalent).
Postgraduates are highly employable and, on average, earn more than individuals whose highest qualification is an undergraduate degree.
On completing this course, you'll be equipped for roles in the radio industry, and also throughout the broader media industry.
Recent graduates have moved into jobs at a variety of radio stations and companies, including BBC Radio 1, 6Music, 5live, BBC Radio Drama, Sun FM, Metro Radio, and BBC Newcastle.
Our former students are also employed at radio stations in Europe, the USA, and Australia.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr/postgraduate-public-relations:
Study a course professionally accredited by the Chartered Institute of Public Relations.
Prepare yourself to move seamlessly into a job with a PR agency or in-house communications department.
This course is a Masters with a focus on practical and academic skills in Public Relations.
It involves a mix of journalism, marketing, social networking and communication theory, giving you a competitive edge in this fast-moving industry.
As part of the course, you'll develop a major PR project and undertake related research and contextual studies.
Compared to an undergraduate course you'll find that this Masters requires a higher level of independent working.
If you study part-time you can expect around six hours of contact time a week.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, critiques, workshops and practical demonstrations.
You'll also have high levels of contact with tutors who give regular feedback and support.
Gain an understanding of the nature and function of public relations in a variety of organisational settings and contexts.
Develop the practical skills needed to construct and deliver a public relations campaign, including an ability to manage external relations.
Learn how to manage media databases so you can target your messages efficiently and appropriately.
Look at the impact of PR practice on a range of social media platforms and channels from both theoretical and practical perspectives.
Develop practical skills needed to produce a variety of content for different platforms and engage constructively and professionally in social media discourse.
Gain a better understanding of a wide range of marcomms media that often work alongside public relations.
Critically explore the role of public relations in society and the legal and ethical frameworks that influence PR practice.
Consider public relations in terms of propaganda and persuasion, trust and social purpose, globalisation and interculturalism, as well as equality, diversity and inclusion, and critically assess the impact of crafted, mediated messages on the public sphere.
Conduct primary research on a topic of your choice related to public relations.
Develop an advanced understanding of sophisticated public relations techniques in a variety of organisational settings and contexts, including non-commercial roles.
Engage critically with theoretical concepts, international models and political communications.
Learn the practical and intellectual skills needed to construct and deliver a public relations campaign at advanced level.
Build on the knowledge and abilities you acquired in the core modules.
Conduct an extended piece of research into an area of public relations, indicating critical engagement with the chosen topic and related theoretical issues.
Create a sophisticated public relations campaign to meet objectives negotiated and agreed with tutors and a real client.
Demonstrate your ability to initiate ideas and undertake the necessary research to meet an agreed brief, using a range of techniques that reflect, complement and enhance organisational objectives.
We usually require applicants to hold a good honours degree (2:1 or above) in a related discipline.
We will consider applicants with professional and vocational experience.
We may ask you to undertake a short course that covers essential skills and knowledge, before you join the main Masters course.
If English is not your first language, you should have an IELTS (or equivalent) score of at least 6.5 or above (a minimum of 6.0 in writing and no other element below 5.5).
After 6 April 2015 you must take your IELTS exams at one of the test centres listed on the UKVI website.
If you took your IELTS exam before 6 April 2015 this does not apply, and your qualification is still valid regardless of which test centre you used.
On completing this course you'll be equipped for roles throughout the PR and communications industries.
Recent Sunderland graduates have set up their own agencies as well as in the PR departments of organisations such as the NHS, local authorities, leading sports clubs, fashion brands, business start-ups, social enterprise organisations and charities.
During the course we encourage you to gain industry experience which will enhance your skills, build up a valuable network of contacts and boost your employability.
A Masters degree will also enhance career opportunities within Higher Education and prepare you for further postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/journalism-and-pr/postgraduate-journalism:
To apply for the full-time course for, click apply now.
Gain experience, build up a valuable network of contacts, and graduate ready to work in the industry.
Choose your specialism, with the option to graduate with MA Journalism (Sports).
Kick-start your career with a postgraduate degree accredited by the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ).
Learn to be a journalist in our real-world newsroom – the mediaHUB – where you will work alongside journalists from the BBC and national and regional media.
Publish your work on our websites and develop a portfolio of content that will launch your career; graduates have gone on to work at BBC News and Sport, Sky Sports News, national newspapers and magazines, football clubs and PR Firms.
Whatever your previous study or experience, this MA will give you all the skills you need to become a journalist.
Cover core reporting skills, media ethics and law, video and digital content, and investigative journalism techniques.
Stay mainstream, or choose the sports pathway and learn a range of specialist sports journalism skills.
In the final stage of the course you will produce your own series of in-depth articles on a subject of your choice.
Those who specialise in Sports can graduate with MA Journalism (Sports).
Alongside the MA, you’ll have the opportunity to do the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ) Diploma in Journalism or Sports Journalism.
NCTJ accreditation is widely recognised as a gold standard for courses that turn out highly-skilled, highly-motivated and highly-employable trainee journalists.
Previous study of journalism is not a requirement.
From day one you will experience life as a journalist, working in a real-world newsroom in our mediaHUB.
You'll publish on our range of websites working alongside, and with help from, experienced journalists from national and regional newspapers and broadcasters, such as the BBC.
The course is taught by respected academics and journalism professionals through a combination of newsroom workshops, seminars and tutorials.
You'll work on projects both on your own and with others, developing skills in communication and teamwork.
Assessment methods include essays, projects, presentations, and a major project.
Part-time students can expect around eight hours per week of contact time in the first year and around 14 hours per week in the second year.
Learn the core skills of journalism, from interviewing to reporting on breaking stories, via mobile platforms and social media integrated newsroom workshops with a team of fellow trainee and professional journalists live from our mediaHUB.
Report on your specialist interest, including news, sport, fashion, music and arts.
Examine the nature of news journalism (or sports journalism for sports students), relative news and features values, and the variety of sources available for originating stories and features.
Develop the skills and understanding necessary for effective journalistic research, including maintaining contacts, working "on" and "off diary", interviewing and research sources and techniques.
Develop your ability to recognise clear story angles and write coherent articles based on them.
Experience the workings of a features desk and newsroom from the very start, and write publishable work for the department’s digital mediaHUB sites and Spark radio.
Learn laws and ethical codes including anonymity, contempt of court, libel, copyright, privacy and other statutes which affect journalistic practice and output which journalists must consider when preparing and publishing legally-safe and ethically-responsible content for print, online, broadcast and social media platforms.
Learn the restrictions faced when covering criminal and civil court cases in England and Wales.
Examine the restrictions surrounding reporting from civil and criminal courts as well as inquests and gain the knowledge and ability to check copy for legal errors and write legally-safe court reports for print, online or broadcast.
Examine and learn to apply ethical considerations and regulations set out for journalists by Ofcom and the Editors’ Code, regulated by Ipso.
Learn how to film, conduct interviews and edit to produce video journalism content for use across a range of platforms.
Learn how to shoot video with correct exposure, white balance, focus and audio quality using industry-standard mobile apps and video cameras, and how to edit video using both mobile apps and desktop software.
Look at techniques for framing, continuity editing, sequences, camera movement and cuts, as well as approaches to video content across various social media, online and broadcast platforms.
Cover approaches to interviewing for video and storytelling treatments, as well as digital skills relevant to video journalism production including search engine optimisation, online writing, social and web analytics, and approaches to maximising awareness and engagement and conversion.
Produce video content to be published on our public-facing journalism news websites.
Apply legal and ethical approaches to journalism taught in previous modules to the production of video journalism, as well as considering health and safety best practice.
Learn the techniques needed to produce exclusive and compelling investigative journalism using up-to-the-minute digital techniques.
Cover key areas including crime reporting; open source investigations and verification; Freedom of Information; and data journalism, data scraping and computer-assisted reporting.
Work individually, in small groups, and as a class on in-depth investigations that will serve the public interest, and distinguish you as a journalist with advanced reporting skills.
Learn all about the power structures of the UK to give you the knowledge needed to hold those in authority to robust scrutiny.
Look at the techniques used to produce contemporary True Crime documentaries and podcasts.
Study for the NCTJ Public Affairs qualification.
Work on completing a portfolio of exclusive multimedia stories in a live newsroom setting for an online audience, featuring a blend of multiplatform storytelling including writing, video, photography, interactives, graphics, audio and podcasting.
Work with a tutor to identify, research and publish a high-quality portfolio of journalism on a subject of your choice.
The portfolio can use a variety of storytelling techniques and will present a great showcase of your skills.
The practical project represents the culmination of your MA work, building on knowledge and abilities acquired in the core modules.
It is to be an extended portfolio of original content and produced to professional standards.
The subject focus of the portfolio, and range of content forms it will include, will be agreed through consultation between yourself and your project supervisor.
The MA modules will equip you with the knowledge and skills you need to gain a full NCTJ Diploma in Journalism.
This consists of a series of core and optional exams and coursework which you will take throughout the year in addition to the MA assessments.
Teaching staff will guide you through this to gain this extra qualification which is vital to getting a job in journalism.
The NCTJ Diploma exams you can do are as follows:
Our David Puttnam Media Centre is a buzzing place to study journalism.
As well as working in our MediaHUB on content, you can volunteer with our award-winning radio station, Spark Sunderland , or produce content for one of our suite of websites in our mediaHUB.
Get hands-on in TV and Radio Studios, and Journalism and Digital editing suites.
We require applicants to hold a good honours degree (2:1 or above) in a related discipline.
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 honours degree and those with professional and vocational experience.
On completing this course you will be equipped for a variety of roles throughout the journalism industry.
This degree prepares you for writing in newspapers, magazines, radio, TV and online media, and if you choose to specialise in sport you’ll also have the opportunity to write for sports clubs or brands.
You'll have also developed and demonstrated transferable skills that are highly relevant to many positions in industry, commerce and the Civil Service, as well as to jobs in the arts and voluntary sectors.
Recent Sunderland graduates have gone on to work for the BBC, Sky, The Essex Chronicle, The Huddersfield Gazette, Spark Magazine, See Tickets, The Socialist Worker, The Prague Post, What Culture, and BBC Relish Magazine.
Sports specialists have been employed by Sky Sports News, JPI Media, Reach, a range of football clubs, the PGA Golf Tour and a variety of PR companies.
As a professionally accredited centre for journalism education, we provide you with an opportunity to influence the future teaching of journalism.
You can become an NCTJ student representative and attend a national council meeting once a year.
A host of experienced journalists regularly visit the university to give insight into the industry via masterclasses and lectures.
Contact the Programme Leader for further information about the course:
Dr John Price 0191 515 2157 john.price@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  17 March 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/postgraduate-design:
Follow a chosen design discipline, including Animation, Fashion, Games Art, Graphics, and Illustration.
Develop a portfolio of creative designs that will impress potential employers.
Join our graduates in exciting jobs throughout the design industry and around the world.
This Masters is built around your personal design interests and aspirations.
It allows you to push the boundaries of creativity, within a framework of academic rigour and contextual research.
You can choose to study any of the following areas: advertising, animation, design thinking, innovation and entrepreneurship, fashion and promotion, graphic communication, graphic design, illustration, interactive media, motion graphics, and typographic design.
Other specialised design disciplines will also be considered.
You'll follow a chosen pathway for the duration of your MA study, with the option to be awarded with one of the following:
You'll graduate with MA Design if you do not wish to opt for a named pathway or if your chosen discipline does not apply to one of the pathways listed above (e.g.
3D Design).
By the end of the course, you'll have completed a major project that has evolved from your practice and research, and you'll have a portfolio of creative designs that will excite and impress potential employers.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this MA course requires a higher level of independent working.
You'll be taught via lectures and seminars, with regular weekly one-to-one or group feedback.
There are also additional workshops, demonstrations and external speakers to fully enrich your learning.
On the MA Design course you can express your learnings in a multitude of ways.
We use a range of assessment methods including critical essays, presentations, evaluation reports, research journals, and practical work via different forms of visual communication (depending on the pathway that you choose).
Choose a discipline and develop design ideas and questions that reflect the nature of your chosen topic.
Learn how to use various research methods to gather information, and to develop design ideas that leads to a programme of study for your MA.
Choose from advertising, animation, calligraphy, digital media, fashion, graphics, illustration, motion graphics, typography, etc.
or any combination of these (other disciplines can also be considered).
Focus upon shifting creative and design trends in response to major social, political, cultural and economic change in society.
Begin to recognise where your developing practice sits within broader historical, theoretical and contemporary issues.
Build upon and further develop the work you carried out in Stage 1 – Design Ideation, leading to a range of design development and prototypes.
Improve your design skills and consolidate your design philosophy, approaches and design theories through further research and practical explorations.
Support your design thinking with a written essay (with a limit of 1750 to 2250 words) which also explores further and strengthens the research methodology and context appropriate to your chosen programme of study from Stage 1.
Reach the design realisation and final production stage of your MA.
Build upon the experiences and work that you have gained through Stage 1 – Design Ideation, and Stage 2 – Design Development Prototypes, to conclude your MA work.
Produce final outcomes that are the culmination of both your academic and practical work, embodied in a portfolio of design outcomes, supported by a written ‘Critical Evaluation Report’ (limited to 5750 to 6250 words).
You'll be based in the School of Art and Design within the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries.
There is a dedicated MA Design Studio based in the Priestman Building at City Campus, which is a five-minute walk from the city centre.
In the same building, you'll find other facilities and resources, such as a dedicated printmaking studio, photography studio, wood and metal workshops, high-end computer suites (with Wacom Cintiqs, iMac Pros, and PowerMacs), finishing rooms, laser cutting machines, 3D printers, fabric printers, and various laser and inkjet printers (from A4 to large format printing).
We usually require applicants to hold a good honours degree (2:1 or above) in a design-related discipline such as graphics, illustration, animation, or digital media.
We may also consider applicants who have relevant experience and who can demonstrate their suitability for the course.
Please prepare a portfolio of creative work which shows what you have done so far and what interests you.
Your portfolio should be a PowerPoint presentation, ZIP file, or links to websites or videos and can include: A variety of art and design work – we want to see a range of styles and techniques Work completed in or outside of your studies Ideas that didn’t work Research: for example sketchbooks, scrapbooks of things that inspire you, or design sheets Photographs of 3D, and large 2D, work are acceptable Uncompleted or work in progress is also useful to see We suggest between 10 and 20 slides/images would be sufficient.
On completing this course, you'll be equipped for roles throughout the creative industries.
Potential roles include animator, graphic designer, illustrator, typographic designer, interactive designer, lecturer, or broad-based designer.
This creative degree can also open doors into many other careers, such as teaching, or further study at Doctorate level.
Upon completion of the MA Design course you'll have a more consolidated portfolio ready for employment in the design industry.
We have close contacts with the design industry and if appropriate could offer live projects, work placements and internships.
During Semester one, we host an Employability Week, where you'll have the opportunity to see professional designers and design alumni for advice and portfolio surgery.
We also have the Digital Incubator Unit which can offer assistance for you to start your own business or freelance practice, plus we are members of the Association of Illustrators (AoI) and Design and Art Direction (D&AD) who can provide further resources regarding competitions, professional practice and employment.
Our graduates have forged careers all over the globe in graphic design, editorial, infographics, motion graphics, advertising, web, packaging and interactive design.
We have graduates working in Ordinance Survey, MTV, SEGA, and the creative industries of publishing, design consultancies and advertising design.
Some graduates are now running their own thriving design business, both nationally and internationally, while others have gone onto academic professions such as further research (PhD) and teaching (PGCE, HE and FE).

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/postgraduate-visual-practice:
This Masters will enable you to develop your personal visual practice and follow your own interests and aspirations.
We do not have a ‘house style’, instead you'll be encouraged and supported to uncover your own focus through independent creativity.
You’ll improve your technical ability through expert support, using our excellent facilities, and will develop academic skills in research and communication.
You'll work alongside a diverse range of established artists, theorists, writers, curators, and specialist technicians to develop your practice and professional career, and you'll meet, share practice, and collaborate with staff and peers from a variety of disciplines as part of the MA Visual Practice community.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that this Masters requires a higher level of independent working.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods and you'll have high levels of contact with tutors who give regular feedback and support.
Our aim is to provide a stimulating and supportive learning environment where emerging ideas and strategies can be tested and debated with reference to appropriate professional contexts and challenges.
The teaching emphasis will therefore be on encouraging self-reliance, sustainability and personal creative responsibility through lectures, seminars, workshops and peer reviews, supported by group and individual tutorials.
This is supported by a range of guest speakers from diverse academic and creative industry backgrounds.
Part-time students will study alongside full-time students in the daytime.
Re-evaluate, experiment and test new ideas to extend your contemporary practice.
Benefit from a survey of critical concepts and frameworks in contemporary visual practice and be encouraged to consider how these relate to your own perspective of practice.
Build on your established practice and current interests, concerns and ideas, developing your personal project or body of work.
This may take the form of an extension of existing ideas and approaches or the development of a new direction.
Learn from and participate in a series of ‘Creative Lives’ talks given on a weekly basis, which will give an overview of current professional practice from professionals from different areas of the creative arts sector, including curators, cultural producers, designers and digital entrepreneurs as well as freelance artists.
Bring your visual practice up to a professional level of resolve and present it in an appropriate professional form (group exhibition).
You will also be supported to produce a final Reflective Report as either:
The University has invested in modern facilities at the Northern Centre of Photography that include:
You'll have access to workshops in printmaking, 3D printing, digital photography, digital sewing and embroidery, woodwork, metalwork and casting as well as support in the development of film and sound.
You'll also have access to FabLab on City Campus.
The University of Sunderland’s Glass and Ceramics area is based at National Glass Centre which provides the infrastructure, creative environment and support for independent creativity in these areas.
Fine Art facilities are based at the Priestman Building on City Campus, where you’ll be allocated your own workspace.
Photography students will be working in the Northern Centre of Photography at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus, with opportunities to meet and learn from many visiting international photographic practitioners.
We usually require applicants to hold an honours degree in an art or design discipline.
Please prepare a portfolio of artwork that shows your interests and what you have done so far.
We are not looking for perfection as we appreciate you may be still developing your practice.
Your portfolio should be a PowerPoint presentation (preferable for applicants interested in the photography route), ZIP file, or links to websites or videos and can include: A variety of art and design work - we would like to see a range of styles and techniques Work completed in or outside of your studies Photographic works Ideas in sketchbooks/scrapbooks Photographs of 3D work in any medium Work in progress We suggest between 10-20 slides/images would be sufficient.
We suggest between 10-20 slides/images would be sufficient.
The course is focused on developing your own perspective of professional practice.
Key issues will include: how to develop and sustain your individual creative practice; disseminating your work; identifying, reaching and developing your audiences; ethical practice and how to foster successful partnerships and modes of collaboration in both arts and non-arts sectors.
You'll develop your own personal creative projects and career plans throughout.
Many recent Sunderland graduates are now working as independent self-employed artists and are successful practitioners around the world, while some have moved on to teaching in schools and lecturing positions at universities.
Others have chosen to move into other areas, including jewellery, architecture, interior design, engineering, photography, painting and sculpture.
During the course we'll encourage you to gain creative industry experience which will enhance your skills, build up a valuable network of contacts and boost your employability.
This experience can take the form of working on live commissions, entering competitions and exhibiting work in public exhibitions.
We also have the Digital Incubator Unit which can offer assistance for you to start your own business or freelance practice.
The University has close links with arts organisations including Arts Council England, the BALTIC, Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art, Centre of Ceramic Art (CoCA) York, National Association for Ceramics in Higher Education (NACHE), Equal Arts, The Biscuit Factory, Tyne and Wear Museums Service and Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art (MIMA).
We also have international links in USA, China, Czech Republic and Australia.
For Photography, international perspectives and professional opportunities are offered through the affiliate organisation NEPN .
Sunderland Culture is a collaboration between the University, council and the city’s key cultural organisations.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/social-work:
Study for a social work degree whilst also gaining invaluable 'on the job' experience.
Choose from two level 6 pathways depending on your prior learning.
Graduate with a set of highly valuable and transferable skills to help you improve the lives of society's most vulnerable people.
The Social Work (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to choose from two level 6 pathways depending on your prior experience and learning:
This apprenticeship combines an academic degree qualification with eligibility to apply for registration as a qualified social worker with Social Work England on successful completion of your course.
A degree apprenticeship enables you to study for a degree, whilst also gaining invaluable 'on the job' experience with the support of your employer and designated mentor.
We'll support you to make links between the taught content of the course, independent study, and the application of your developing knowledge, skills, and behaviours in the workplace.
During your apprenticeship you'll be:
Each year of the course starts with a block of university-based teaching, followed by attendance at university one day per fortnight, with one day of independent study in the alternating weeks.
The taught sessions are generally workshop style and also include small group work, computer-based learning, and presentations.
You'll also complete two assessed practice placements – a 70-day placement in year 2 and a 100-day placement in year 3 – during which you'll have the opportunity to gain specific experience so that you can demonstrate the appropriate knowledge and skills.
Each year of the course starts with a block of university-based teaching, followed by attendance at the university or independent study one day per week (often alternating on-campus attendance and study).
You'll also complete two assessed practice placements – a 70-day placement in year 1 and a 100-day placement in year 2 – during which you'll have the opportunity to gain specific experience so that you can demonstrate the appropriate knowledge and skills.
For both the BA and PgDip routes, you'll complete at least an additional 30 days of skills development both on the job (recorded as part of the 10-12 week progress review) and within the University (for example, in communication skills sessions).
Your progress will be assessed with group projects/presentations, written assignments, portfolios, and exams.
Throughout the degree, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff, as well as regular meetings with your tutor and workplace mentor to review your progress.
This module introduces the basic skills you’ll need for a successful future in social work.
You’ll become familiar with the frameworks for assessment of social work practice, including the Professional Capabilities Framework for Social Work and the Social Worker Apprenticeship Standard.
You’ll be able to plan, lead and evaluate group activity, reflect and learn from feedback, and present written material in a clear manner with appropriate standards of literacy.
In this module you’ll take part in a community study where you will explore cultural, economic and social factors which impact on daily living and social justice.
You’ll develop research skills and evaluate the impact of diversity upon different communication styles.
You’ll reflect on work that you have completed with service users and carers, and enhance your interpersonal communication skills in preparation for your future in social work.
Explore ethical principles in social care, including the importance of personal and professional behaviour and boundaries.
You’ll become aware of disadvantage and discrimination, how they relate to power and oppression, and to what extent social workers can challenge these factors to promote social justice and human rights.
You’ll become familiar with the legislative frameworks of human rights and equality and understand their significance for social work practice.
In this module you’ll be introduced to areas of psychological thought, including cognitive, behavioural, psychodynamic, and humanistic approaches.
You’ll explore social psychology, including attitude formation, how prejudice develops, and the impact on real-world situations.
By the end of the module, you’ll have studied classical social themes including the patterns in social relations, the dynamics and processes of social change, and theoretical explanations of social conflict and inequality.
You’ll be introduced to legal practice and policy frameworks for social work, including sources and processes of law making and policy development.
You’ll use examples of practice situations to understand the importance of case law and develop the ability to apply a range of sources to this, including local and national policy documents.
Throughout the module there will be an emphasis on developing your understanding of concepts such as equality, oppression, social justice, and inclusion.
In this module you’ll develop your understanding of a variety of different social work theories, examining different models of practice, and the skills and techniques associated with them.
You’ll explore how various influences such as psychological, social, cultural, spiritual and physical can be useful in effective social work intervention.
You’ll learn about the value of evaluating and reviewing hypotheses, and then apply this to a number of case scenarios.
Develop your knowledge of theoretical models of reflection and understand how these can be used to examine and develop your own practice.
You’ll learn the importance of feedback from service users to ensure that different perspectives are included in the reflective process.
The supervision process will be examined, and you’ll be encouraged to reflect on your own experiences of supervision.
This module builds on the understanding of the use of research in social work gained throughout your first year.
You’ll examine and discuss different research methods and their relevance to social work, as well as debate and discuss the benefits and disadvantages of different approaches in research studies you’ll be presented with.
The assessment explores the nature of social work research in relation to a specialist topic chosen by you, linking to an aspect of your practice in the workplace.
By developing knowledge of research, you’ll acquire some of the essential attributes required by a critically informed and reflective practitioner.
This module will take a critical and analytical approach to moral philosophy.
The relationship between values and ethics in social work will be explored and you’ll be encouraged to recognise and discuss the dilemmas which arise from different value positions.
You'll develop an in-depth understanding of some of these approaches as they apply to particular areas of social work practice.
You’ll explore current policy and legislative frameworks, which have a bearing upon ethical practice, and will examine ideas of citizenship and power, with particular attention to exclusion and inclusion.
This module will enable you to look in depth at conditions within organisations that may facilitate or inhibit service development and a learning culture.
You’ll use examples of serious case reviews and other similar inquiry reports to explore how we can learn from serious incidents in social work settings.
You’ll explore working collaboratively with colleagues from other professions in high-risk situation, which will be enhanced by opportunities to learn with and from students on other courses within the University.
You’ll be supported to demonstrate professional leadership by undertaking a small-scale service development project within your workplace.
This module is designed to enable you to evidence the comprehensive knowledge and skills in social work practice that you have developed over the Integrated Degree Apprenticeship.
The module will also enable you to demonstrate how you professionally manage situations that are challenging, evolving and complex, while critically reflecting on your practice and professional development.
As part of this module, you will also undertake a 100 day placement, which will enable you to demonstrate that you are a practitioner who reflects, thinks critically, is professionally curious, able to work with people and acts in accordance with the highest professional standards and frameworks for practice.
This module will allow you to explore the role of social work and its values, as well as discrimination and disadvantage, power, and oppression, giving you the opportunity to develop your practice skills.
You’ll learn from service user and carer groups to enhance your understanding of diversity in social work, alongside different needs and service responses.
Through relationship building sessions, you’ll examine communication theory and techniques to enhance your interpersonal communication and interviewing skills.
You’ll also study different styles of communicating with diverse service user groups.
Explore the context of Social Work in England, examining legal frameworks and policy contexts for social work with adults, children, young people, and families.
You’ll also consider ethical and moral frameworks that underpin the discipline of social work.
This module will allow you to examine a range of sociological and psychological theories and their application to practice.
You’ll learn about different models of assessment and consider the complexities of decision making in professional practice.
Undertake a 70-day work placement where you’ll have the opportunity to engage with a range of people and situations while applying theory to practice.
This will help you build on important skills, knowledge, and commitment to core values in social work.
Gain an introduction to more complex concepts and perspectives in social work practice and explore the role and professional identity of a social worker.
The module will encourage you to critically reflect on your own practice approach and actively engage in direct work with a range of people and situations.
This learning will take the form of a 100-day work placement where you’ll have opportunities to demonstrate effective use of knowledge, skills, and commitment to core values in social work.
Critically evaluate the process of decision making in social work practice, alongside the impact of local, national, and global issues.
Examine different areas of social work practice, considering how social workers make complex, ethical decisions, and explore social policy and current and emerging issues in social welfare.
You’ll develop a deeper understanding of some of the theoretical approaches and how these relate to social work practice and examine the integration of human rights and social justice across a range of specialist areas.
Most of the teaching and learning will take place at the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, at the recently refurbished Wearside View and The Reg Vardy Centre.
To apply for a place on the Social Work Apprenticeship, you must firstly be supported by your employer.
All social work apprentices must be working in a setting where they have: Day to day contact with service users and/or carers A breadth of opportunities across the full range of knowledge, skills, and behaviours in the Social Worker Apprenticeship Standard.
You must also have previous experience (voluntary or paid) in a social care setting.
This can include placements which you've undertaken as part of a college course, but we do expect more experience than this.
BA (Hons) apprenticeship pathway: Applicants must meet our minimum academic standards which are: You'll need to complete a University standard application form, requiring details of qualifications, employment history, personal statement, and two references.
One reference must be from your current employer.
In addition, all applicants must complete a Professional Suitability Self-Declaration form giving details of any previous criminal convictions or cautions, disciplinary issues and any investigations by Local Authority Children’s or Adult Services.
The University completes a funding eligibility check at this stage.
PgDip apprenticeship pathway: Applicants must meet our minimum academic standards which are: A minimum 2:2 undergraduate degree, or equivalent A minimum grade C/4 in GCSE English language, or equivalent.
For both pathways, applicants who meet the entry criteria will be invited to a selection day which includes a written test, group exercise, and individual interview.
Applicants must meet our minimum academic standards which are: You'll need to complete a University standard application form, requiring details of qualifications, employment history, personal statement, and two references.
You'll need to complete a University standard application form, requiring details of qualifications, employment history, personal statement, and two references.
Applicants must meet our minimum academic standards which are: A minimum 2:2 undergraduate degree, or equivalent A minimum grade C/4 in GCSE English language, or equivalent.
Social work is a broad discipline.
You could work with older people, young offenders, foster carers, young people in care, people with learning or physical disabilities, people with mental health problems, people with drug dependencies, children at risk of abuse, individuals at risk of harm to themselves or others, or any other group of people with specialist needs.
Social workers work in a variety of organisations including local authorities, NHS Trusts, residential care, schools, the voluntary sector, and the private sector.
Find out more about what a social worker does.
If you decide to move into a different field of employment in the future, you’ll have gained valuable and transferable skills in writing, verbal communication, teamwork, risk management, critical analysis, and decision-making, demonstrating you’re resourceful and creative in problem-solving.
If you're taking the PgDip Social Work (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship), you'll spend a total of 170 days on work placements – a 70-day placement in year 1 and a 100-day placement in year 2.
You'll also complete at least an additional 30 days of skills development both on the job (recorded as part of the 10-12 week progress review) and within the University (for example, in communication skills sessions).
Service users, carers, and social work practitioners are involved in the development and delivery of teaching on the course, which ensures you're receiving teaching that's reflective of the climate you'll be working in.
Guest speakers from practice, individuals with lived experience, and service user and carer organisations are involved in delivery across the course, such as through communication skills teaching and perspectives sessions.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pcet-pre-service:
Start a career in further education.
This ProfGCE PCET course is for people who want to teach subjects which are not widely available, such as sports science, psychology, or dance, within the post compulsory education sector.
This pre-service course is for graduates who are not yet in work.
You will develop your knowledge of teaching and learning and improve your own teaching skills.
The contact time for this ProfGCE PCET course is four hours a week.
You will be taught via lectures, seminars, tutorials, direct learning, and group work.
You will be assessed with assignments, seminars, presentations, and observed teaching practice.
This is a Professional Certificate level course, and the modules are at national level 4 and 5.
Explore the roles and responsibilities of being a practitioner in the Further Education sector.
Identify appropriate teaching and learning approaches in your subject specialist area and learn the basics of delivering inclusive and motivating sessions.
Focus on reflection, planning, curriculum intent, curriculum sequencing and assessment theory.
Continue to develop your knowledge of teaching, learning and assessment.
Gain a sound understanding of the principles related to Assessment for Learning and explore a range of strategies that you can use to support your learners’ progress.
Explore classroom and behaviour management strategies in depth and refine your ability to creative inclusive learning environments.
Critically interrogate key texts to enhance your subject knowledge, pedagogy, and awareness of your subject curriculum.
Examine the wider policy context of education and training in the post compulsory sector.
Investigate how current policy developments inform how you adapt your curriculum to ensure an inclusive and effective approach to teaching, learning and assessment.
Study further the prior knowledge around theories of learning and investigate how your students learn by reviewing traditional educational theories and concepts, as well as explore thinking and discussions that are more contemporary, such as strategies to support memory.
Explore the wider context of curriculum design, considering models of inclusive curriculum development, as well as the policy initiatives and key theories that have significantly influenced post compulsory education and training.
Focus on collaborative approaches to evaluation and problem solving to identify potential areas for innovation and change in teaching, learning and assessment.
Investigate what is available in your own institution within this context, particularly for SEND.
Develop your own teaching practice to promote key skills in English and Maths and discover how technology can be used to enhance teaching and learning.
Research inclusive practice that will help you to implement a range of strategies in the field of inclusion.
Develop your ability to reflect upon and evaluate your own teaching and gain an introduction to the key principles that impact on how we teach and assess learners.
Demonstrate effective planning and management of learning through a series of professional observations and work with experienced subject specialist mentors to refine your craft.
Learn to justify and demonstrate your ability to develop, improve and sequence the lessons you deliver in practice.
Reflect upon your approaches to teaching, learning and assessment in your subject specialist area, as well as your journey as a student teacher, setting targets for future progression.
Demonstrate your ability to develop, improve and sequence your lessons and further refine your knowledge and awareness of the wider curriculum as it applies to your subject specialism and professional practice.
Work collaboratively to investigate and improve an aspect of your subject curriculum and teaching practice.
Learn how to conduct research in a way that will allow you to judge the effectiveness of your teaching and take informed steps to implement a curriculum intervention you have developed.
You must have the following academic qualifications: An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check from the last three years, from the point of enrolment A completed medical pro forma Evidence of significant work experience in the area you wish to teach.
If you're invited for an interview, you'll be asked to complete a short in-house literacy assessment and participate in a group activity.
The annual fee for this course is £2,750.
This part-time PCET course is a route into teaching, which can be a rewarding career with excellent job security.
Graduates of this course now work in a variety of educational environments, including Further Education colleges, sixth form colleges, training organisations, and prison education.
Page last updated:  24 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-pcet-pre-service:
The Post Compulsory Education and Training (PCET) Pre-service course is a professional teacher education degree that will qualify you to teach in the post compulsory education and training sector.
This part-time PCET course is designed for graduates with degrees from a wide range of subjects, including those not widely taught in secondary schools (such as sport science, health and social care, and dance).
If you would like to pursue a career in teaching, but are unable to attend university on a full-time basis because of other obligations, for example, work and family commitments, then this part-time course could be for you.
This Pre-service PCET course will equip you with the necessary tools to teach adults and young people and give you the opportunity to share your knowledge in a way that helps others to fulfil their potential.
The degree  benefits from its direct link to the University of Sunderland’s Centre for Excellence in Teacher Training (SUNCETT), one of only 10 Centres for Excellence in this Sector.
The programme is directly informed by both the national and international educational research and development work of the team.
There is also a certificate route available for entry onto this course.
The course may be suitable for people who have not necessarily had any previous experience as a teacher, but who want to make a positive difference in the further, adult and vocational education sector.
If you are already employed in the PCET sector, we offer an In-Service Part-Time (PCET) .
Contact time is four hours per week in an encouraging and productive learning environment that provides you, as a student teacher, with opportunities, time, and space to develop your knowledge of theory and refine your teaching practice alongside highly experienced and research-active teachers and teacher-educators.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods, including interactive teaching, lectures, seminars, practical teaching workshops, tutorials, directed learning, and group work.
You will also be expected to successfully complete a minimum of 100 hours of teaching practice placement over the two year course (50 hours per year).
Assessment methods include assignments, seminars, presentations, and formative and summative observations of teaching practice.
If you are already employed in the Post Compulsory Education and Training (PCET) sector, you may be interested in our part-time Post Compulsory Education and Training In-service course .
For the Professional Graduate Certificate, you'll usually need to hold a 2:2 (or above) honours degree from a UK Higher Education institution or an equivalent qualification and be deemed suitable to train to teach by the University of Sunderland.
For the Certificate route (part-time on-campus), the entry requirements are as follows: HNC, an advanced NVQ Level 3/4, or Professional Qualifications Evidence of work experience.
It's an entry requirement for both part-time on-campus qualifications that you must also have: An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check Completed a medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
You'll also need English and maths GCSEs at grade C or above or equivalent.
Applicants invited for an interview will be asked to complete a pre-interview written task, participate in a group activity, and complete a short in-house literacy assessment.
The fee for this course is £2,750.
This part-time course isn't available to international students.
When you complete this PCET course you will have a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) qualification or a Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (ProfGCE) depending on which route you follow.
Please note that this course does not lead to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Previous graduates of this PCET course have gone on to employment within Further Education colleges, sixth form colleges, training organisations, and prison education.
Following successful completion of the course and once in a teaching post, you will be able to apply to the Society for Education and Training (SET) who provide the recognition route to Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status through their professional formation process.
We will help to arrange a minimum of 100 hours teaching practice placement in the Learning and Skills sector over the course of your two years of study (minimum of 50 hours teaching practice per year).
Your practice placement will provide you with valuable opportunities to work alongside experienced teachers and to learn how to design, deliver, assess, and evaluate teaching and learning in the sector.
You will be supported and guided by a subject specialist mentor who will be allocated to you through the University of Sunderland’s Placement Office.
Please note that you will be expected to pay for your own travel to and from placement.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/pgce-health-professions:
Build on your experience, knowledge, and skills of teaching and take your career to the next level.
Develop confidence in delivering learning using methods such as problem-based learning.
Graduate able to offer student-centred teaching and learning experiences.
Health professions education involves the design of learning which meets the needs of a diverse range of learners with different needs and learning preferences.
These learning strategies also ensure student success, retention and employment.
This PGCE Health Professions is aimed at academic staff working in Higher Education.
You'll explore key theories in learning and teaching in the context of your own academic practice and you'll engage in technology-enhanced learning, both in use and pedagogy.
You'll develop skills and confidence in delivering learning, using methods such as problem, case or team-based learning.
You'll be taught via a mix of lectures, group-based seminars and interactive workshop activities.
You'll be assessed via multiple methods which reflect the underpinning principles of universal design for learning including essay format, a spoken individual presentation, a written module document and verbal defence.
The course is taught on a part-time basis, every Thursday from 9am-3pm.
You're expected to have a substantial teaching workload which should equate to more than 100 hours of direct student contact each year.
You must undertake a full range of academic practice in line with the UK Professional Standards Framework (UKPSF) in order to complete the course.
The majority of students undertaking the course will be academics on a teaching and research contract, although the course is open to research assistants and associates who also contribute to teaching, provided they're able to meet all of the dimensions of the UKPSF.
Please email celt@sunderland.ac.uk to arrange this.
The tuition fee for this course is £2,833 if you're from the UK/Ireland/EU settled/pre-settled.
On completion of the course, you may look to find employment at Higher Education institutions, or clinical teaching roles in the public and private sector (subject to meeting the role specification requirements).
The course is designed to develop your skills and knowledge as a teaching professional and as such, be able to offer student-centred teaching and learning experiences.
On successful completion of the PGCE Health Professions degree, you can use it as advanced standing if you wish to continue your studies and enrol onto the Master of Education (Health Professions) course.
This master's provides initial teacher preparation for staff new to education, with modules covering both teaching, learning, assessment and curriculum design.
You would enter year two of the course and graduate ready to work in a more senior clinical teaching role in the public and private sector or in Higher Education institutions.
Page last updated:  23 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/llm-advanced-legal-practice:
Develop your understanding of core areas of functioning legal knowledge to prepare you for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE1) and (SQE2).
Develop your practical legal skills in each of the necessary legal contexts to become a solicitor.
This course is suitable if you're aiming to become a qualified solicitor.
It has been carefully designed to refresh your knowledge of core areas of functioning legal knowledge for SQE1 and help prepare you for the skills assessments tested as part of SQE2.
As part of this course, you’ll undertake core modules to advance your skills in Client Interviewing, Property Law and Practice, Wills and Administration of Estates Dispute Resolution, Criminal Litigation, Business Law, and Practice and Advocacy.
To complete the course you will undertake a Legal Practice Project.
A typical week for you will include weekly two-hour workshops across a variety of SQ1 and SQE 2 subjects.
These are interactive and require a high level of preparation; in these workshops, you will develop your written and oral skills.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that this master's requires a higher level of independent work.
You will encounter a range of practical supervised and portfolio assessments across the course followed by an extended piece of researched coursework for your Practice Project.
Applicants will typically hold a UK Bachelor of Laws (LLB) or a Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL) and will have achieved a First or Upper Second (2:1) classification.
To discuss your application, please contact the Programme Leader.
This LLM course provides those wishing to progress to become solicitors access to the skills and knowledge required to support their preparation for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination at Stage 1 and 2.
During the course, you'll have the opportunity to engage with external partners to develop your networking and professional skills, through events and the Sunderland Student Law Society.
Outside of the course, you can engage in activities such as client interviewing, student negotiation, and mooting and take part in both regional and national competitions.
Page last updated:  07 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/postgraduate-childhood-youth-studies:
Are you passionate about working with children and young people and ready to take your career to the next level?
This ground-breaking and highly-flexible postgraduate course in childhood and youth studies could be perfect for you.
Depending on the pathway you choose, you'll graduate with one of three MA degree titles:
You'll be taught by experienced lecturers with professional backgrounds in children and young people, early years, and youth work.
Our modules will give you an understanding of the theoretical perspectives through which childhood and young people are currently defined within interdisciplinary contexts.
You'll also critically reflect upon current legislation, policy, and practice.
You'll evaluate organisational structures and provision which regulates and promotes children’s and young people’s status, welfare, health and wellbeing, and learning.
You'll interpret different political issues and events, past and present, that impact on children and young people.
You'll also develop your knowledge and skills in research which will enable you to undertake advanced research projects in the social sciences.
Please note, a member of the course team will advise you on the most suitable pathway, as the MA Childhood and Youth Studies (Early Years Graduate Practitioner Competencies) and the MA Childhood and Youth Studies (Youth Work, professionally validated and recognised by JNC) have entry requirements and placements which necessitate previous experience in the field.
During the MA Childhood and Youth Studies course, you'll be taught through a mixture of on-campus workshops and seminars, as well as completing individual projects and research.
Those undertaking the Early Years Graduate Practitioner Competencies pathway will have a minimum of 25 days placement – some will require 80 days placement depending on their experience.
Those undertaking the professionally qualified Youth Work pathway will undertake 400 hours of learning through placement.
You'll be assessed via essays, portfolios, poster presentations, research projects, presentations, and your 15,000 word dissertation.
Throughout this childhood and youth studies course you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff to help you with your assignments.
You'll also be assigned a Personal Academic Tutor.
Explore the concepts of leadership and management and their application to practice settings within community contexts across the Childhood and Community and Youth Work sectors.
Consider a number of key areas, ranging from theoretical development, societal change and policy initiatives, followed by an evaluation of the tensions and compatibility issues that occur within leadership and management.
Explore in-depth an area of theory that directly or indirectly influences your specific subject area and/or professional practice.
Develop your skills to appraise material from diverse sources in order to deepen specialist understanding.
Disseminate your findings to colleagues or service users to inform and develop practice.
Negotiate your area of focus with the academic tutor.
Design and carry out a research project of your choice in the area of Childhood and Youth Studies.
Identify and define an appropriate research topic and locate relevant textual resources to support literature reviews, documentary analysis, policy and professional documents, and official statistics.
Discuss and select an appropriate research strategy and develop a research proposal.
Develop meaningful research questions from initial concepts, ontological and epistemological considerations, methodology, approach, ethical issues, data analysis, and dissemination.
Identify key contemporary issues that impact on the lives of children and young people and examine common factors relating specifically to inequalities, injustice and rights.
Explore contemporary issues including: anti-discriminatory and rights theory and practice, transitions, friendships (gang culture, sub-cultures), youth identity, health and wellbeing, education and employment, cultural worlds and environmental/existential threat.
Reflect upon the socio-political challenges outlined in the contemporary issues discussed and how they impact/influence practice.
Explore different theoretical frameworks influencing understandings of the concepts of childhood and youth.
Examine threshold concepts of childhood and youth through a variety of different lenses.
Explore childhood and youth through biological, developmental and constructivist lenses.
Analyse various theoretical perspectives and practice of oppression and privilege, intersectionality and positionality and ethics of care.
We usually require applicants to hold at least an upper-second class honours degree (2:1 or above) or equivalent.
Those who are interested in the MA Childhood and Youth Studies (Early Years Graduate Practitioner Competencies) or MA Childhood and Youth Studies (Youth Work, professionally validated and recognised by JNC) should have a relevant degree in the area and some experience working with children and youth respectively.
An interview and satisfactory DBS will also be essential for entrants interested in either of these two pathways.
We welcome graduates from a wide range of areas such as social sciences, psychology, education, and health.
Please note, part-time study isn't available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
The MA Childhood and Youth Studies course has strong appeal for those aiming for a career within early years provision, youth work, education, social work, nursing, healthcare, youth justice, and the voluntary sector – including charities and NGOs.
You'll graduate with the ability to advance academically and professionally, move into the profession or within the sector, or into a senior, managerial, or supervisory role.
Those who graduate with a JNC qualification will be eligible for the higher levels of salary scales set by the Joint Negotiating Committee for Youth and Community Workers.
If you undertake the Early Years Graduate Practitioner Competencies pathway, you'll spend a minimum of 25 days on placement – some will require 80 days on placement depending on your experience.
If you undertake the professionally qualified Youth Work pathway, you'll undertake 400 hours of learning through placement.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-higher-education:
Develop insight into the theory behind pedagogical approaches to learning and teaching.
Explore key theories in the context of your academic practice.
Gain confidence in delivering higher education learning through a range of teaching and assessment methods.
This PGCE Higher Education is aimed at academic staff working in Higher Education and covers contemporary approaches to both teaching and student learning.
You'll be introduced to academic practice, with an overview of learning theories, practical classroom teaching and learning approaches, and will cover a range of pedagogical approaches.
You'll develop insight into the theory behind pedagogical approaches to learning and teaching, such as gamification and object-based learning, as well as more traditional approaches to large group lectures and smaller group seminar and workshop activities.
Your skills and confidence in delivering learning using such methods will develop as you progress through the course.
You'll be taught via a mix of lectures, group-based seminars and interactive workshop activities during the PGCE Higher Education.
You'll be assessed via multiple methods which reflect the underpinning principles of universal design for learning including essay format, a spoken individual presentation, a written module document, and verbal defence.
Use evidence informed teaching practices, signature pedagogies and approaches to learning and teaching such as Gamification, Object Based Learning.
Gain an insight into the theory behind these approaches while developing skills and confidence in delivering learning.
Please email kim.gilligan@sunderland.ac.uk to arrange this.
Fees are £2,833.
On completion of the PGCE Higher Education course, you may look to find employment at Higher Education institutions, teaching across a range of year groups.
Your career prospects are enhanced through your ability to reflect on your own teaching practice and to engage in scholarship of learning and teaching as it relates to your own profession.
On successful completion of this PGCE Higher Education degree, you can use it as advanced standing if you wish to continue your studies and enrol onto the Master of Education (Higher Education) course.
This master's course offers students the ability to study a wide range of topics relevant to educating academic staff working within Higher Education.
It provides initial teacher preparation for staff new to education, with modules covering both teaching, learning, assessment, and curriculum design.
You would enter year 2 of this course and graduate ready to work in Higher Education institutions, teaching across a range of year groups.
Page last updated:  22 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/mentoring-coaching:
Distance Learning
Explore mentoring and coaching of colleagues, students, or other staff in educational establishments.
Apply your learning to your own teaching position.
Mentoring and Coaching (DL) is a Level 7 course for teachers and educators, delivered via distance learning.
You'll explore the principles, concepts, theories, and models relating to the development of coaching, guidance, and mentoring skills, and evaluate the impact these might have on teaching and learning.
This coaching and mentoring course will be particularly beneficial if you are currently mentoring a trainee teacher and wish to develop theoretical knowledge.
Developing supportive relationships, both personal and professional, and an awareness of the potential of all learners, is an important element of the course.
Our Mentoring and Coaching course is taught via tutor and group-led discussion sessions, case studies, self/peer reflection, evaluation of visual or audio recordings, research, and self-directed study.
Assessment methods include written commentary and transcript, and a written report.
Applicants are required to be working in a teaching/educator role.
Course fees are £750.
This coaching and mentoring course is ideal for teachers and people working in educational management who want to quickly progress their careers.
For more information on studying this course, please contact Vicky Graham: vicky.graham@sunderland.ac.uk .
Page last updated:  06 January 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-in-service:
This PCET course is for people who are already working as teachers or trainers and want to achieve the sector qualification for teaching in post-16 settings.
Further Education institutions need teachers with specialist subject knowledge who can teach people who want to explore subjects they weren’t offered in school.
If you have a degree from a range of subjects including non-curriculum areas such as psychology, law, or dance, you could be a teacher in post-16 education.
This PCET course is taught at East Durham College and you will spend four hours a week there.
You'll also attend a summer conference at the University of Sunderland.
The conference brings together full-time pre-service and part-time in-service student teachers to share their research into improving teaching and learning.
This will be an excellent preparation for your first year as a qualified teacher and an induction to a professional formation year.
You must also have: An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check A completed medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92) Confirmation that you've secured 100 hours of teaching practice over the two years of the course.
If you're invited for an interview, you'll be asked to complete a pre-interview written task, participate in a group activity, and complete a short in-house literacy assessment.
Applicants must be able to declare that they can secure 50 hours of appropriate teaching each academic year (100 hours over two years of the course) in order to meet the requirement of the Professional Graduate Certificate in Education and Training.
If you don’t have the required qualifications, please see our Professional Certificate in Education (PCET) In-service course that has lower entry requirements.
For applicants with no previous experience of teaching, we also offer a PGCE (PCET) full-time pre-service .
Please see our English language requirements .
If you need support or have any queries about applying for your finances for this partner college course, or want to get in touch with our Partnership Liaison team, you can find out more in our Help and Advice article .
If you're not sure whether you qualify as a UK, EU, or international student, find out more in our Help and Advice article .
Many graduates from this PCET course have gone on to more senior posts with leadership responsibilities in the institutions in which they are employed.
When you graduate from this course you will have a Professional Graduate Certificate in Education.
This qualification incorporates the Diploma in Education and Training (DET).
You will be able to apply to the Society for Education and Training which provides the recognition route to Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status through their professional formation process.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-international-education:
MA International Education (DL)
The MA International Education (DL) degree is a distance learning course, allowing you to gain a well-respected master's degree from anywhere in the world.
This course is ideal for teachers or other educational professionals working in international schools who want to develop their professional practice.
Your career development will be supported with a tight focus on the international school system and its challenges and opportunities.
You will enhance your employability whilst working towards a valuable master's qualification.
If you're studying for the MA International Education (DL) degree, you can learn from anywhere in the world that has good internet access, as learning materials will be e-books, online journal papers and other online resources.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you will find that a master's degree requires a higher level of independent working.
You'll have one-to-one support from staff throughout your degree.
Your progress will be assessed with case studies, research proposals and written assignments.
This module will give you an introduction to the history of international education and its development over time, allowing you to examine different contexts and how this can be seen at different levels.
Explore cultures within schools and compare alternative approaches to education.
You’ll make links between internationalism, interculturalism, and school curricula, and understand mission, vision, and values statements in a variety of contexts, as well as the potential future of international education.
Explore the influence of culture, government regulation and educational philosophy on the curriculum in your own school.
Examine issues concerning the relationship between the school organisation and the curriculum, such as who decides what is taught, who sets the standards and how pupil learning and achievement is monitored.
Critically examine your own teaching, comparing teaching styles and effectiveness in the classroom, and how this is matched to the context in which you are working and to the needs of your students.
Critically examine the management of institutions, curriculum areas, staff, and pupils within your context.
Consider in depth issues relating to that management such as the itinerant nature of staff.
Explore the implications of the eclectic range of cultures with which you engage daily and examine the various types of international school philosophies.
Consider how the differing social, economic, and global positions of such schools determine leadership and management styles and to what extend ‘leadership’ is culturally determined.
You'll also usually need a recognised teaching qualification.
If your first language isn’t English, you must achieve a minimum IELTS score of 6.5, with 6.5 in writing, and at least 6 in Reading, Speaking and Listening.
This MA International Education (DL) degree is ideal for teachers and other people working within international education institutions who want to quickly progress their careers.
Read more about possible career opportunities with an MA International Education degree .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/crime-policing-investigation/postgraduate-investigative-management:
Develop your skills and be part of the future of the police.
Bring a high level of professionalism to investigation.
Qualify for more senior roles within the police.
The MA Investigative Management degree is ideal for professionals seeking to advance their careers by studying leadership and management in the context of work-based investigative practice.
This investigation course has been designed in collaboration with senior police representatives to enhance your intellectual capability and professional practice in relation to how investigations are led, managed and delivered.
By its nature, this cross-disciplinary investigation course has a substantive professional experience component.
Throughout your studies you will be supported by academic staff, as well as various professionals with practical experience of investigation.
With a clear focus on merging theory and practice, you will gain a deeper understanding of investigative management in the context of real-world experience(s) and professional practice(s).
This investigation course includes a dissertation module which allows you to tailor your studying to suit your career needs and research interests.
MA Investigative Management is taught via lectures, workshops, and self-study.
Your progress will be assessed with coursework, a research proposal (in written and presentation form), and your dissertation.
Throughout your studies, you will receive one-on-one guidance and support from academic staff and professionals with practical experience in investigation.
The course module dates are:
Gain a critical understanding of the processes involved in conducting effective business management and build awareness of a range of research strategies and techniques to pursue your own research interests.
Explore the significant role that theoretical principles play in the research process and the importance of presenting clear and credible argumentation and evidence to support both the research design and study’s findings.
Examine the wider impact of your professional leadership and decision-making in investigations, both for your own and your organisation’s benefit.
Consider the changing nature of your professional environment by exploring various theories of professional leadership and management, focusing on a process of critical reflection upon your professional identity.
Develop a deeper understanding of the practical issues of managing and leading investigations with a view to improve current practice.
Develop an understanding of and reflect upon the importance of criticality in decision-making within the professional context of investigative management.
Examine the similarities and differences between the approaches to critical evaluation of different stakeholders, and how these approaches impact outcomes of relevant investigations.
Identify a key area of operational practice related to investigative procedure which you perceive requires further reflection and analysis to produce a written assessment, tailored towards writing for a practitioner-friendly peer journal.
Enhance your understanding of the processes involved in conducting effective business management research.
Analyse, interpret and critically evaluate information relevant to the research topic and produce an investigative management dissertation from the gathered data.
Read more about our investigation progression routes
To apply for this course you need to be at least one of the following: Graduate in BA (Hons) Applied Investigation Senior investigative professional with experience of leading and managing investigations Professional graduate with at least five years’ experience in investigation Have attained PIP level 3.
The total fee for this course is £5,300 (£2,650 per year).
Please note, part-time study isn't available to international students.
Visit this page for more information about funding.
The MA Investigative Management course has been designed in response to the current sector needs in policing.
It is extremely relevant to modern police practices, and its structure, content and assessment strategies have been created in collaboration with senior police representatives.
As an Investigative Management graduate you will be able to immediately make a positive impact in your current role in the police.
If you are seeking employment or planning to change roles, you will be qualified for positions with more seniority and responsibility within police investigation.
Page last updated:  23 July 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/crime-policing-investigation/leadership-criminal-justice-policing:
Equip yourself with the skills needed to lead effectively in any criminal justice setting, including probation, prison and police services, and with offenders, victims, or other vulnerable populations in the community.
Gain a critical understanding of the criminal justice system.
Enhance your learning with real-life assessments and take part in a combination of independent study, online activities and in-person classes, which have been designed to be flexible around your work.
The MSc Leadership in Criminal Justice and Policing course specialises in leadership and management within criminal justice environments including, probation, police, prisons, youth offending, and security.
This master's in criminal justice will equip practitioners, whether statutory or third sector, with the skills needed to advance their careers.
Whether you've studied criminology or social sciences before or not, this MSc is suitable for anyone with a genuine interest in this area and those looking to become leaders in their field.
Choose from a selection of modules which allow you to specialise in domestic or international issues, and in either policing or other criminal justice settings, or to mix these to suit your interests.
Explore a range of topical issues and threats which impact upon criminal justice and policing policy and practice, and engage with the latest criminological research and trends.
Experiential learning is embedded throughout the course and realistic assessments will be complemented with a theoretical and empirical study of national and international criminological and penological theory, criminal justice policy and practice, and social justice.
Now more than ever, it's important to understand and address the variety of problems that crime and its control pose in contemporary society.
This master's in criminal justice will enable you to recognise these problems and to rise to the challenges that they raise for policy makers and practitioners.
The teaching team are all actively engaged in research in criminology, criminal justice, or leadership.
Our research practice gives our students a social science orientation which is distinct from MBAs in leadership and management.
Our students become part of a community of research-active academics and local practitioners in criminology and criminal justice, providing ample practical opportunities to draw upon.
This criminal justice degree will provide a domestic, international and transnational focus on the subject area, and so it is suitable for applicants in the UK and beyond.
You can study the MSc Leadership in Criminal Justice and Policing course either full-time or part-time.
Classes are interactive and designed to be inclusive of students with different levels of academic knowledge and practical experience.
The full-time route is studied over one year from October to September.
Modules are taught on one evening per week with modules in two-hour blocks to accommodate students who work.
For full-time students and those in their second year of part-time study, there are also ten mandatory dissertation classes on alternate Wednesday evenings during term time.
Additional online tasks and materials will be provided for students to complete independently.
You are expected to read widely to supplement the material taught and to help you get the most out of your studies.
The course will typically be taught as the following:
Classes are in the evening between 5-7pm for the first core module and 7-9pm for the second core module, with a short break in between.
Classes are in the evening between 5-7pm and 7-9pm.
Optional modules may be subject to change and in the event of low numbers of students, some options may not be available.
The dissertation module is an independent research project undertaken over the year.
You'll be matched with a supervisor with expertise in your chosen area of research who'll guide you through completing your dissertation.
You'll meet regularly with your supervisor, either in person or on Teams.
In addition, there are ten mandatory taught sessions on the dissertation module.
These take place on alternate Wednesday evenings during term time – five in the first semester and five in the second semester.
The part-time version of this master's in criminal justice is studied over two years and follows the same day and time slots as full-time students.
However, in your first year, you'll study one core module in semester one and one optional module in semester two.
In your second year, you will complete your second core module in semester one, an optional module in semester two, and your dissertation module over the year.
We encourage you to attend other voluntary training courses and opportunities that fall on other days where possible.
These are circulated by email throughout the course.
You'll also have one-to-one support from an allocated Personal Academic Tutor who will meet with you regularly.
During both semesters where there are local half-term holidays, teaching doesn't take place during these weeks.
Instead, we offer all students ‘enrichment weeks’ of optional and additional activities.
These have ranged from guest lectures, training sessions, theatre trips, visits to museums, and more.
We encourage everyone studying on this criminal justice degree to come along to enrichment weeks in both semesters.
The MSc Leadership in Criminal Justice and Policing course assessment methods consist of a mixture of essays, reports, case studies, and presentations, to help you develop a wide range of knowledge and skills.
Assessments have been uniquely designed to offer experience of real-life tasks that you may be expected to undertake within a criminal justice workplace.
Academic staff will use constructive and detailed feedback to support your learning.
This module will give you an understanding of the academic theories of leadership, the leadership approaches of organisations within criminal justice and policing and the space to review and develop your own leadership approach.
In this module you will move away from generic leadership theories toward a thorough examination of how to lead in criminal justice and policy in the modern era.
In this module, you will engage with concepts and theories of punishment to critically make sense of how and why we punish offenders in society.
You will comprehend the different reasons why we punish offenders and critically analyse how the criminal justice agencies apply the punishments in practice to offenders.
The Module will introduce you to the key Qualitative and Quantitative approaches in research which will enable you to conduct, disseminate and synthesize a research project of your own choosing.
The Dissertation topic whilst subject to approval, will relate to Leadership in the Criminal Justice System or Policing or be a specific organisational case study approach within the Criminal Justice System or Policing which applies and evaluates leadership and management approaches.
In this module, you will engage with the concept of vulnerability to critically evaluate policies and practices of the Criminal Justice System.
You will gain an understanding of the ways in which societal inequalities such as race, gender, social class and ability are produced and how these contribute to an individual’s vulnerability to both criminality and victimhood and their experience of the criminal justice system.
Explore key issues and perspectives relating to prevailing forms of crime and criminal justice responses/processes in a global context.
Interpret and evaluate how international and transnational forms of crime such as cybercrime, terrorism, and human rights violations are identified, researched, and responded to across Nation-State and International criminal justice contexts.
This module will allow managers within criminal justice and policing agencies to better understand international criminality and to utilise existing law enforcement structures to become more effective in responding to the threat.
In this module you will explore the contribution that third sector organisations and individuals with personal ‘lived experience’ of the criminal justice system, influence change through activism, education, research and mentoring.
You will gain insight into the increasing use of those who have experienced imprisonment, probation, substance and alcohol addiction and mental health issues within both traditional (i.e.
prisons and probation services) and third sector organisations.
We usually require applicants to hold at least a second class honours degree (usually a 2:1 or above) or equivalent.
We welcome applicants with degrees in areas such as social sciences, psychology, business, law, education, humanities, health, arts, technology and the sciences.
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) If you feel you already know some of the topics covered in this course, either due to previous learning or from experience of work, you may not need to study all of the course.
If you're eligible for APL you won't have to learn the same topic again, so you can be exempt from a module, set of modules, or year of a course.
If you feel you already know some of the topics covered in this course, either due to previous learning or from experience of work, you may not need to study all of the course.
Please note, part-time study is not available to international students who require a student visa to study in the UK.
Graduates will typically use the MSc Leadership in Criminal Justice and Policing course as a stepping stone to a higher level of professional employment in roles specifically designed to meet the needs of criminal justice, their associated agencies and organisations.
Our criminal justice graduates enter the work force with a global critical awareness of their sector and the ability to lead transformative change for the future.
Graduates will be prepared to lead within criminal justice in a national or international setting.
This master's in criminal justice is also suitable to prepare graduates for further study at doctoral level.
Graduates of this criminal justice degree will be able to forge careers in the:
Page last updated:  14 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/undergraduate-pcet-in-service:
Develop your career in Further Education.
This PCET course, taught at East Durham College, is for people who are already working as teachers or trainers in Further Education and want to advance their career by achieving the sector qualification for teaching in post-16 settings.
Further Education institutions need teachers with specialist subject knowledge who can teach people who want to explore subjects not typically offered in schools.
This covers a wide range of subjects including construction, health and social care, engineering, plumbing, and automotive.
On the course, you'll develop your knowledge of teaching and learning, and improve your own teaching skills.
This PCET course is taught at East Durham College and you'll spend four hours a week there.
This will be excellent preparation for your first year as a qualified teacher and an induction to a professional formation year.
Bishop Auckland College has over 1,200 students enrolled on full-time courses and provides a quality learning experience for all students.
Please contact Bishop Auckland College for more information about facilities and location.
Bishop Auckland College Woodhouse Lane Bishop Auckland County Durham DL14 6JZ
Please contact South Tyneside College for more information about the facilities and location.
Phone: 0191 427 3500 Email: info@stc.ac.uk
This course is delivered at Sunderland College.
Sunderland College is a world-class provider of education with campuses located across the city.
Please contact Sunderland College for more information about their facilities and campuses:
Sunderland College Bede Campus Durham Road Sunderland SR3 4AH Tel: 0300 770 8000 Email: info@sunderlandcollege.ac.uk
This course is taught at our partner colleges.
We usually expect you to have the following: An HNC, an advanced NVQ Level 3/4, or Professional Qualifications Confirmation that you've secured 100 hours of teaching practice over the two-year course English language and maths GCSE at grade C or above or equivalent.
If you've studied for a GCSE which has a numerical grade, you'll need to achieve a grade 4 or above An enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check A completed medical pro forma (based on DFEE Circular 8/92).
Applicants must be able to declare that they can secure 50 hours of appropriate teaching each academic year (100 hours over the two year course) in order to meet the requirement of the Certificate in Education and Training.
When you graduate from this PCET course you will have a Certificate in Education.
Graduates of this PCET course now work in a variety of educational environments, including Further Education colleges, sixth form colleges, training organisations, and prison education.
Page last updated:  18 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/preparation-for-academic-study:
Develop the required skills and knowledge to progress to Level 6 study.
Reflect on your own professional and experiential learning.
Flexibly study online to fit around your work commitments.
This may include qualified healthcare professionals who've achieved a diploma in Higher Education or an equivalent to a UK diploma level award.
This specific short course can be used as a precursor to a top-up degree such as the BSc (Hons) Nursing (Top-Up) or BSc (Hons) Professional Practice .
The range of topics covered on the course will allow you to reflect on your own professional and experiential learning and the theoretical underpinning will require you to consider evidence-based research within your own practice.
There'll also be the need to challenge the use of continuing professional development (CPD) as a professional.
The course is delivered over 10 weeks via online distance learning and the structure will be as follows:
This course is delivered online via distance learning.
You'll need internet access to use our Virtual Learning Environment, where you'll access specially designed learning materials relevant to your course.
To be eligible for this course, you must either: Hold a diploma in Higher Education Hold an advanced diploma in Higher Education (nursing) Meet the NARIC/ENIC recognition of equivalence for a diploma of Higher Education.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/psirf-masterclass:
Share experiences, ideas, and learning of The Patient Safety Incident Response Framework.
This one-day masterclass will provide participants with an understanding of the required knowledge, skills, and behaviours that are necessary to respond to a patient safety incident using a systems-based learning response (eg after-action reviews, debriefing).
This will include discussion around improvement planning and monitoring.
The Patient Safety Incident Response Framework (PSIRF) takes a very different approach to what has gone before in terms of how organisations approach and learn from patient safety incidents, allowing organisations to examine incidents openly without fear of inappropriate sanction, and supporting those affected alongside improving services.
This one-day masterclass will take place on campus at the University of Sunderland between 9am – 4pm with an hour for breaks.
This masterclass is aimed at matrons, governance leads, managers, and those working in/leading a multidisciplinary team (NHS and Independent) who are expected to facilitate systems-based learning responses.
The fee for this course is £145.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/management-family-liaison:
Focus on the management and coordination of family liaison for serious and complex investigations or major incidents.
Explore the roles and responsibilities of the family liaison coordinator.
Reflect upon and explore personal experiences from your workplace practice.
This short course will allow you to enhance your skills and knowledge of managing and coordinating family liaisons for serious investigations and major incidents.
You'll examine the strategies and risk assessments involved, as well as provide tactical advice to the Senior Investigating Officer.
You'll consider other stakeholders in the deployment of family liaison officers and the importance of effective communication and negotiation with them.
You'll also explore the practicalities of the role and the importance of monitoring the deployment, plus the consideration of welfare of both the families and staff.
Throughout the module, you'll be introduced to structures designed to support the deployments and explore how to use relevant material in support of the development of the family liaison strategy and risk assessment.
You're required to attend university for face-to-face teaching sessions for all three days at your chosen location.
The remainder of your learning will consist of self-directed study and work-based learning, although you will have access to materials and your Programme Leaders throughout the course.
Teaching and learning on this module will offer a combination of presentations, group work/discussions, practical exercises, formative assessment activities, and tutorials.
Discussions will take place in both small and large groups to facilitate the ethos of teamwork and enhance communication and presentation skills.
Independent study (guided learning which isn't directly supervised) will consist of private study time, preparation of/for assessments, work-based learning, and problem-based learning.
This will involve you identifying gaps in your own knowledge and skills and defining ways to bridge the gaps with new knowledge, understanding, and behaviour.
Topics covered across the module will include:
You'll gain 40 credits at the end of the module.
Teaching and learning will take place at our Sunderland campus.
This advanced diploma, worth 40 credits, has been designed to assist forces/organisations who have previously delivered this course in the continuous professional development of those who have been assessed as competent within the role of family liaison coordinator.
The fee for this course is £720.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/professional-practice:
The BSC (Hons) Professional Practice provides a route for registered Nursing and Allied Healthcare Professionals (AHPs) to gain an undergraduate qualification and award for career enhancement and professional development.
For available funding opportunities please contact cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .
The course will consist of modules from the University of Sunderland’s Continuous Professional Development (CPD) portfolio, as well as the University’s module catalogue, allowing individuals to accumulate university credits.
One of the compulsory modules is Independent Study in Higher Education (HE) and all students are required to complete this as part of the course.
Professionals who have previously studied at the University as part of their CPD have the potential for further Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL), a maximum of 60 credits.
This will be assessed by the Programme Director and advice will be provided on the individualised pathway to achieve the graduate qualification.
The location for each module will be advised at the time of enrolment however the main spaces will be the Science Complex and its facilities.
There will also be a combination of online and face to face teaching and learning approaches.
The course allows recognition of, and Accreditation of Prior Achievement (APA) of a maximum of 240 credits from a Diploma or Advanced Diploma in HE.
Successful completion of a Diploma in HE or Advanced Diploma in HE (maximum 240 credits) in nursing or another professionally recognised programme will allow access to this course.
For further information and discussion, contact Jennifer Dent, Programme Director, at jennifer.dent@sunderland.ac.uk .
To apply or find out more about this course, contact the CaPE team: cpd@sunderland.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/infection-prevention-control:
Develop knowledge and understanding of core IPC areas.
Learn from leading experts in the field of infection prevention and control.
Benefit from our state-of-the-art nursing facilities.
Infection prevention and control (IPC) is fundamental to modern healthcare, and following events like the Covid-19 pandemic has become even more critical.
The National Infection Prevention and Control Manual (NIPCM) outlines standards required to manage and reduce the risk of current and future events.
This short course, developed and aligned to the NIPCM, will support you in gaining knowledge and understanding of core IPC areas.
You'll study two modules – Foundations of Infection Prevention and Control and Contemporary Issues in Infection Prevention and Control – focusing on a range of different topics and creating assessments reflective of IPC practice.
The course consists of two modules, with one block of 10 weeks per module.
There will be 10 on-campus teaching days per module, as well as self-directed study.
Teaching will take place at the University for the duration of the course, but there's an expectation that you'll undertake independent learning support to enhance your knowledge.
Learning methods will include lectures, seminars, group work, case studies, problem-solving exercises, and directed and independent study.
You'll be assessed via a Mini Clinical Evaluation Exercise (MiniCEX), preparation of a professional education resource, and a poster presentation.
This module will provide you with core skills in infection prevention and control, promoting the concept of interprofessional working and recognising the need to enlist healthcare professionals to draw from their expertise.
This module will encourage you to critically analyse and reflect on contemporary issues within infection prevention and control via focused discourse with specialist practitioners currently working within the field.
Our Mock Hospital Wards are based in the Living Lab and Helen McArdle House, on City Campus and are used by students across a wide range of healthcare courses, including Nursing, Paramedic Science, Pharmacy, Biosciences and Healthcare Science.
All wards are equipped with industry-standard clinical equipment, including life-like simulation manikins, and are suitable to run different scenarios, from clinical skills, to role playing, fully immersing students in a dynamic learning environment.
View our AccessAble accessibility guides for Fleming Building and Helen McArdle House .
OSCE stands for Objective Structured Clinical Examination.
An OCSE is a practical assessment that students studying Nursing, Medicine, and Allied Health courses must undertake to test clinical skill competency.
This course is mainly delivered at City Campus in Sunderland, but some teaching may take place at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's if required.
You must be a registered healthcare professional and hold a 2:2 or above in your degree, or have equivalent experience, which includes registration with a professional body and subsequent work-based experience.
The course is suitable for those who are already working within infection prevention and control for the NHS or other organisations, and will help recognise and validate your experience.
It's also for those who are seeking to specialise in IPC for future career development and will support continuing professional development at level 7.
The fee for this course is £2,200.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/investigations-rape-sexual-offences:
Develop your investigative mindset to improve the management of Rape and Serious Sexual Offences (RASSO) investigations.
This short course in Investigations of Rape and Serious Sexual Offences (RASSO) focuses on the development of the essential skills needed to manage RASSO investigations and their complexities.
A flexible learning approach will be adopted to assist in enhancing the specific knowledge relating to the way RASSO investigations are reviewed, evaluated, and managed.
You'll have the opportunity to reflect upon personal experiences from your own workplace practice, as well as case studies, to consider how you can improve the outcomes of investigations.
You'll develop structures designed to support the RASSO investigation strategy and explore the value of effective engagement, rapport, and communication.
The remainder of your learning will consist of self-directed study and work-based learning, although you will have access to materials and your Programme Leaders throughout the duration of the course.
Please note, this course is currently only available at our London campus.
Teaching and learning will include a combination of presentations, group work/discussions, practical exercises, formative assessment activities, and tutorials.
Discussions will take place in both small and large groups to facilitate the ethos of teamwork and enhance communication and presentation skills.
This course is currently only available at our London campus.
Applicants are required to have experience in investigating RASSO-related offences.
This advanced diploma, worth 40 credits, has been designed to assist forces/organisations who have previously delivered this course in the continuous professional development of those who have been assessed as competent within the investigation of rape and serious sexual offences.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/investigative-interviews-vulnerable-victims:
Learn how to effectively plan and conduct investigative interviews with vulnerable victims and witnesses.
Reflect on experiences from your own workplace practice.
Gain the skills needed to facilitate victims' access to justice.
This short course in investigation will help you to consider the elements required for planning for investigative interviews such as assessing the needs of witnesses as they relate to communication and behaviour, the analysis of information, and the formulation of a written interview plan using the relevant material.
You'll explore the necessary factors to conduct an effective interview, including engaging and building rapport with vulnerable victims and witnesses and utilising appropriate interview techniques to help facilitate their access to justice.
You'll also examine post-interview procedures and ways of evaluating the interview in respect of the overall investigation, as well as your own performance.
The course will allow you to explore the practicalities of the role and others with whom you'll need to engage during the interview process.
Please note, your course start date will depend on your location:
Sunderland start date: 16 July 2024
London start date: 9 April 2024
Teaching and learning will take place at either our Sunderland or London campus.
This advanced diploma, worth 40 credits, has been designed to assist forces/organisations who have previously delivered this course in the continuous professional development of those who have been assessed as competent within the role of specialist witness interviewer.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/in-sessional-eap:
Improve your English with free classes for registered students.
Develop academic skills in reading and writing, speaking and listening, dissertation writing, discussion skills, intercultural awareness, and grammar.
Choose courses in general academic English or English for Business Studies.
Our In-Sessional English for Academic Purposes (EAP) short courses are free to students already registered on a course at the University.
If you are an applicant and are interested in studying for a course before you start university, you will require our pre-sessional EAP short courses.
The In-Sessional EAP short courses offer two types of modules:
EAP: General English for Academic Purposes These modules are for students from any subject.
Most modules are aimed at students who have studied English as a second or foreign language, but we also have courses for students who have been educated in English or for whom English is their first language.
EBS: English for Business Studies These courses are tailored to the needs of students in business-related subjects whose first language is not English.
The EAP and EBS courses will help you develop your English and academic skills to be more successful in your main course.
Classes are divided into different levels and skills so that you can choose what you would like to focus on.
Semesters in EAP are divided into two five-week teaching blocks.
You will be able to choose up to two courses per block each semester.
Please note, this course is taken in addition to your main course.
It is unaccredited, therefore it does not have credits that count towards your main course.
Our language classes are all interactive and flexible.
Each session ranges from whole-class activities to group work, pair work, and individual tasks.
You may be involved in discussions and debates, activities using the Sanako language learning software and other online tools, giving and listening to presentations, producing written work, analysing texts, and participating in grammar and vocabulary review activities.
Several different types of activity are usually present in each session.
Sessions are fully supported by Canvas, where you will have access to key information and resources, as well as the ability to practise activities and submit work for feedback.
When signing up for an online class, you will have access to Sanako Connect, a web-based language teaching hub.
In addition, you may be directed to the Language Centre for homework and self-directed study.
Here, you'll have access to a range of language learning materials and the support of the Language Technician.
Each course requires you to attend two hours per week, plus an additional 30 minutes is available to students for tutorials.
In each of our teaching blocks, courses last five weeks with an additional week offered for formative feedback and additional tutorials.
You are allowed to take one or two courses per block and you can take EAP courses in each year of your studies.
Because each student may have different needs and levels of English, there is no prescribed package of courses that you must take; however, we have designed a course that allows students to progress from introductory courses to those that facilitate the continuous development of your academic skills.
Courses are unaccredited but you will be offered the opportunity to complete formative assessments as part of the course.
If you attend regularly, you will be awarded a Certificate of Attendance.
You may choose one or two courses per teaching block, a maximum of four courses each semester, taking into account your level of English and the skills you would like to focus on:
EAP101: Introduction to Academic Reading
This five-week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a low university entry level in the skill of reading.
Improve your reading comprehension and efficiency, learn strategies to support your reading ability, improve your grammar and vocabulary, and receive targeted feedback.
You will also learn how to identify key information, improve your note-taking, and practice your summarising skills.
EAP201: Developing Academic Reading
This five -week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a good university entry level in the skill of reading.
This course may also be suitable for you if your secondary education in your home country was taught in English, but you would benefit from support in academic reading.
Building on your current language skills, you will work with authentic academic texts improving your reading efficiency and comprehension.
You will get the help you need to succeed in your main course as you practice the key skills of paraphrasing, summarising, and quoting.
You will also learn how to compare and evaluate sources, and to read critically.
EAP102:Introduction to Academic Writing
This five-week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a low university entry level in the skill of writing.
Work on your grammar, vocabulary, and academic style as you learn how to plan and structure clear and coherent paragraphs and texts such as essays or reports.
You will practise your writing so that you can acknowledge sources while learning how to summarise and paraphrase effectively avoiding plagiarism.
Our experienced tutors will provide you with targeted feedback.
EAP202: Developing Academic Writing
This five -week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a good university entry level in the skill of writing.
This course may also be suitable for you if your secondary education in your home country was taught in English, but you would benefit from support in academic writing.
Building on your current language skills, you will improve the clarity, cohesion, argumentation, and critical evaluation in the texts you produce such as essays or reports.
Develop your essay writing skills, work on your referencing, and improve your critical thinking.
You will also learn how to create a strong argument and how to effectively synthesise sources.
EAP103: Introduction to Academic Listening
This five -week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a low university entry level in the skill of listening.
Improve your listening comprehension and efficiency and learn how to identify and use key information from lectures.
You will develop your note-taking skills with strategies to help you improve and practice your summarising techniques using audiovisual materials.
EAP104: Introduction to Presentations
This five-week course is for you if you want to work on your presentation skills.
You will gain confidence in speaking and in presenting information clearly and coherently.
Through targeted feedback and practice, our tutors will support you in developing your spoken academic style and pronunciation which will help you convey your ideas with accuracy.
We will work with you so that you can design effective slides and develop your abilities for your university presentations.
EAP203: Developing Academic Listening
This five -week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a good university entry level in the skill of listening.
You will work with authentic audiovisual materials to develop your academic skills as you listen for argument, content, and structure.
Improve your listening comprehension and efficiency and learn how to extract and use key information and arguments without plagiarising.
You will develop your summarising skills as you increase your knowledge of advanced vocabulary and complex grammatical structures.
EAP204: Developing Academic Speaking
This five -week course is for you if your first language is not English and you have a good university entry level in the skill of speaking.
This course will facilitate the development of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structures to discuss academic and topical subjects.
You will learn how to use discourse markers and cohesive devices to articulate ideas with clarity and purpose.
EAP105: Grammar for Academic Writing
This five-week course is for students who have studied English as a foreign language.
Review aspects of grammar with which you have particular difficulties, develop a working knowledge of English grammar, sentence structure, and punctuation, and be able to apply it to a range of academic writing contexts.
Improve your ability to express yourself with clarity and precision at an appropriate level.
Complete the course with the necessary tools to produce coherent written tasks in formal academic prose and to proofread and correct your work.
For those who wish to work on their grammar for a whole semester, we recommend that you also enrol on the continuation course EAP107: Advanced Grammar for Academic Writing.
EAP205: Discussion skills and Intercultural Awareness
This five-week course is for you if your first language is not English, you have a good university entry level in English and you would like to gain confidence in seminar-style skills in a relaxed atmosphere.
Each session will be based on the discussion and evaluation of a text taken from a range of genres and topics such as newspaper articles, short films, documentaries, TV shows, radio programmes, podcasts, blogs, stories, and photographs.
Improve your intercultural understanding, your knowledge of vocabulary and grammatical structures and your fluency in speaking.
EAP301: Dissertation Writing: The Planning Process
If English is not your first language and you are embarking on research writing, this five-week course is designed to meet your needs.
Equip yourself with the academic and language skills required for dissertation writing at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Gain an informed understanding of the strategies used to select an appropriate topic, methodology and structure for a research project.
If you are interested in studying a longer course in dissertation writing (10 weeks), we recommend that you also enrol on EAP313 Dissertation Writing: The Writing Process.
EAP303: Dissertation Writing: The Writing Process
This five-week course is recommended as a continuation to EAP301 Dissertation Writing: The Planning Process however it can also stand alone for students who want to concentrate on the process of writing a dissertation.
You will develop a more critical approach to reading and writing in English as you identify and formulate lines of argument in extended pieces of writing.
The course will also help you consolidate your knowledge of academic style and conventions, advanced grammar, and specialist vocabulary as you take the right path to succeed in your main course.
EAP 302: Presentation Skills for Postgrad Research Students
If English is not your first language and you need to discuss and present your research orally, this five-week course is designed to meet your needs.
Equip yourself with the academic and language skills required for presenting research in seminars, conferences, and focused academic discussions and tests.
Gain an informed understanding of the strategies used to explain and defend complex arguments in research presentations.
Develop your presentation skills as you improve the fluency and spontaneity of your spoken English while gaining an understanding of your audience’s needs.
Consolidate your knowledge of academic style and conventions, advanced grammar, and specialist vocabulary as you take the right path to succeed in your main course.
EAP 106: Academic Writing for Native Speakers
This five-week course is aimed at students who have English as a first language, for example, if your secondary education was completed in the UK.
It is also suitable for students of English who have the equivalent of IELTS 8 or above.
Gain an understanding of advanced academic grammar, vocabulary, register and style, with the precise areas of grammar to be studied determined by an analysis of commonly occurring mistakes.
Explore tools for researching and checking the accuracy of your academic writing such as online dictionaries, corpora and grammar practice software.
Increase your awareness of the UK higher education context and its practices, for example learning more about plagiarism and practising how to avoid it by improving paraphrasing, summarising, quoting and referencing skills.
If you wish to work on your academic writing for a whole semester, we recommend that you also enrol on the continuation course EAP108: Essay Writing for Native Speakers.
EAP108: Essay Writing for Native Speakers
This course can be studied on its own or as a continuation to EAP 106: Academic Writing for Native Speakers.
It is aimed at students who have English as a first language, for example, if your secondary education was completed in the UK.
As you gain an understanding of advanced academic grammar, vocabulary, register and style, you will improve your understanding of the requirements of typical academic writing structures and genres.
This course will focus mainly on developing the skills needed for essay writing.
You will work on developing clear argumentation, cohesion and criticality in your own writing.
EBS101: Reading and note-taking for Business Studies
This five-week course is aimed at non-native speaking students whose main course has predominantly business content.
This course aims to equip you with the skills necessary for reading and comprehending academic texts at an elevated level of complexity.
It will involve asynchronous preparation for classes/workshops and will make use of both group discussion and individual tutorials.
The emphasis will be on cultivating a rigorous approach to reading and on successfully evaluating source materials in preparation for written output.
EBS102:Academic Writing for Business Studies
This five-week course is aimed at non-native speaking students whose main course has predominantly business content .
This course aims to provide the student with an overview of the fundamentals of academic writing in English alongside the opportunity to practise and refine techniques in a relaxed workshop environment.
There will be an implicit emphasis on grammar, vocabulary, and sentence structure, but this will always be applied to practical academic tasks, such as the writing of essays, reports, and other types of assignments.
EBS201: Report-writing for Students of Business
This is a practical course in the production of business reports that introduces the purpose and the main features of this genre of writing.
It combines a theoretical study of the language and structure of report writing with student-centred practice.
By the end of the course, you should have been afforded useful experience and knowledge of the character and production of business reports.
EBS202: Developing Academic Writing for Business Studies
This course builds on EBS102: Academic Writing for Business Studies as it affords further development of academic writing skills.
However, it can also stand alone for students with prior experience of studying in a context of English, such as postgraduates or third-year undergraduates.
It explores the building blocks of extended writing, such as sentence-structure and paragraph structure, as well as differences in style and genre.
It also explores the skills of source integration, looking at in-text citations, paraphrasing and summarising source evaluation, and the writing of literature reviews.
EBS 103: Introduction to Listening and Notetaking for Business Students
The focus is on improving comprehension and listening skills.
Students are introduced to techniques and six general strategies such as predicting, monitoring, responding, clarifying, interfering, and evaluating to help them listen for general understanding, distinguish main ideas from points of detail, understand the organisation and conclusions of straightforward formal or academic listening texts, take notes and discuss their ideas.
EBS 104: Introduction to Business Meetings and Discussions
The course is designed to develop speaking skills to participate effectively in academic seminars and business meetings.
Students have the opportunity to interact with others in pairs, groups and whole class activities agreeing, disagreeing, discussing, interrupting politely, seeking clarification, asking questions, negotiating, and chairing a meeting.
The objectives of the course are to improve students' academic and business English, speaking, and pronunciation, build confidence and fluency in English language, build appropriate professional vocabulary, and improve grammar.
EBS 203: Advanced Listening and Summarising for Business Students
The focus is on advanced comprehension, listening and summarising skills.
Students review techniques to help them listen for complex and formal business lectures, take notes, summarise, and reference information appropriately.
The course enhances the ability to use key arguments, analyse and evaluate information in listening to lectures.
EBS 204: Advanced Business Presentations
The focus is on advanced business presentations skills in English.
These include structure of the presentation, practice of language and skills, using various techniques to enhance the presentation, analysis of the presentation, practice of parts/full presentations, feedback, and target setting.
The objectives of the course are to improve students' academic and business English speaking, pronunciation, build confidence and fluency in English language, build appropriate professional vocabulary, and improve grammar.
Most of the EAP classes take place at the Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's, at either Wearside View or the David Goldman Informatics Centre.
A small number of classes are offered online for students who are studying remotely.
For EAP, most classes will be on-campus, but one group at each level of Reading and Writing and one Dissertation Writing group will be offered online.
For EBS courses, there will be one class online and one class on campus for each level.
You can apply for free English for Academic Purposes (EAP) and English for Business Studies (EBS) courses if you are a current student at the University of Sunderland.
EAP and EBS courses are aimed at students who have English as a foreign or second language but we also have courses for native speakers of English.
These courses are in-sessional modules meaning that they run in term time.
View our upcoming start dates .
If you need support with registration or are unsure what courses to select, use our Live Chat and a member of the EAP team will get in touch to answer any questions you may have.
You can also book a one-to-one session for advice and support with your academic English.
This course is free to students who are already registered at the University of Sunderland.
Improving your English and academic skills will help you to be more successful on your main course, but will also help you when it comes to looking for graduate employment.
The skills you learn from this course will be invaluable throughout your future career.
Page last updated:  15 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-education-send:
Deepen your knowledge.
Expand your career options.
Our MA in Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion is a highly flexible degree that enables you to specialise in studying issues around Special Educational Needs and/or Disabilities in a way that suits you.
This SEND course is ideal for teachers or other educational professionals who want to develop their careers with a highly specific postgraduate SEND degree.
The course provides a clear progression route into careers where you can help achieve better outcomes for children and young people with SEND.
Throughout the degree you will develop your ability to interpret, understand and conduct research at master's level, as well as collaborate with others to form and debate your own understanding of SEND.
Your progress on the MA SEND degree will be assessed through written assignments, including an MA Thesis or Practitioner Enquiry project.
The assignments are written flexibly to allow you to focus on your areas of interest within your assessed work.
Throughout your end of course research project, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
When you complete the MA SEND, your optional modules may be taught on-campus (one evening per week) or via a hybrid learning approach.
through a PGCE or NASENCO award, then you may be able to transfer some of these credits to the MA SEND course.
The credits must be less than five years old and must demonstrate that you've met a range of learning outcomes in relation to SEND in order to be transferred to this course.
Discuss a range of issues pertaining to inclusive education and, in particular, how the concept of ‘Inclusion’ is conceptualised.
Explore the impact of supporting and working with children, young people, families and stakeholders in the area of social, emotional and mental health.
Undertake a critical examination of the rights and needs of children with SEMH difficulties, including childhood adversity, and the impact of school policies and procedures in supporting participation and learning and preventing school exclusion.
This stunning riverside location benefits from dedicated library services and has superb transport links with the city centre and City Campus
If your first language isn't English, you must achieve a minimum IELTS score of 6.0 or equivalent before your application is assessed for the next stage of the selection process and an offer letter is issued.
International students wishing to study a part-time MA Education course may be interested in MA International Education (Distance Learning) .
The MA SEND degree is ideal for teachers and people working in educational management who want to quickly progress their careers in a wide variety of occupations in educational settings.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/crime-policing-investigation/undergraduate-applied-investigation:
Strike a balance between theory and application.
Critically evaluate a contemporary and significant issue in your professional environment.
Undertake work-based learning that leads to a BA (Hons) degree in investigation.
BA (Hons) Applied Investigation is a unique and contemporary course which adapts itself and students to the evolving nature of investigative practice.
It aims to build knowledge and expertise in the area of investigations through work-based learning, allowing you to attain a full BA (Hons) degree in just six contact days over 18 months.
The concept of the investigation course accredits prior experience, permitting those who have achieved PIP Level 2 (or equivalent), or those who have five years' experience in an organisation and are operating in an investigative capacity, to enter the degree in its third and final stage.
The work-based approach encourages you to focus on your area of interest, producing a research study whilst critically reflecting on investigative skills and strategies.
Developed by senior police officers and members of NPCC, the course is undeniably relevant for those in force however, its self-study nature and adaptability make it an ideal fit for criminal investigators in all professions looking to upskill or affirm their career with a degree.
On campus and throughout your studying, you will be coached by Programme Leaders with vast experience in the world of investigation, offering unrivalled academic and practical support to those undertaking the investigation degree.
During the course, you’ll engage in various teaching and learning methods, including lectures, workshops, and self-study.
Your progress will be assessed via an essay, research proposal, and project.
The course dates are:
Gain an understanding of essential academic reading, writing and referencing skills and knowledge of research methods and how they can be applied to a research problem.
Identify an area of investigative practice and articulate the current state of research and the need for further study.
Learn the major conceptual, theoretical and practical issues relevant to your specific work role and have the ability to present a clearly defined plan for conducting a research project.
Identify a key area of operation within investigative procedure that requires further reflection and analysis, and produce a research proposal in your area of interest.
Gain an ability to critically evaluate existing research and professional practice, the skills to select and summarise sources of information and effectively present information to a professional audience.
Learn critical reflection and how to deploy your professional skills and strategies, developing the flexibility to meet changing needs within investigations.
Demonstrate an understanding of the personal development process and apply an individual negotiated approach to self-development, producing a personal plan to foster, promote and enhance these needs through workplace learning.
Other optional modules may be available depending on numbers.
Please get in touch with the Programme Leader prior to application for more information.
If your work-based experience does not make you eligible for direct entry at Level 6, then you may consider applying at Level 5:
In this module, you’ll consider contemporary issues in investigative practice, exploring the role of critical thinking in an investigation and developing an understanding of the investigative mindset.
You’ll learn about the advantages of critical thinking as an investigator, the pitfalls of not developing an investigative mindset, and explore strategies to help develop these skills within your own role.
You’ll also consider the obstacles and opportunities around investigations that you conduct.
The module focuses on the impact of austerity, learning and development, and technology on investigations, enabling you to identify opportunities for change in your current workplace.
This module will allow you explore the current state of witness interviewing in investigations, examining the history and development and the contemporary issues affecting the way interviews are conducted.
You’ll consider witness interviewing models and explore the way that witness recall and questioning techniques can impact the quantity and quality of information gathered, from a theoretical and practical basis.
The module also explores the validity of written witness accounts and the impact the interviewer can have on the final product.
In this module, you’ll critically examine the contemporary issues in suspect investigative interviewing, exploring the law and literature around pre-interview briefings and disclosure of evidence.
You’ll discover how evidence can best be presented in a strategic manner utilising a structured approach to investigative interviewing and explore how the interviewer’s personal style can have an impact, specifically considering what rapport is, and how it can be developed and applied.
You’ll also consider the importance of continuous professional development as an investigator, reflecting on your own experiences in suspect interviewing and developing an action plan to support your improvement.
If you're studying at our Sunderland Campus, you'll be based at the recently refurbished Wearside View, situated on the award-winning Sir Tom Cowie Campus at St Peter's.
We also offer this course at our London Campus, and if you're studying as part of our London cohort, you'll be based at Canary Wharf.
Applicants must have appropriate experience of investigations in a professional capacity.
Those with a PIP level 1 qualification (or equivalent experience), or those with relevant experience in an organisation and who are currently operating in an investigative capacity are encouraged to apply for this stage.
In addition, applicants should be able to demonstrate competence and knowledge in the investigation of serious and complex crime.
Course fees are £4,450.
The BA (Hons) Applied Investigation course offers accreditation at university level for those who have the knowledge and experience of investigating serious and complex crimes.
When you complete the course you will gain a BA (Hons) degree and you will also be qualified to study at the next level, which is MA Investigative Management .

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/postgraduate-social-work:
Make a real difference to some of the most marginalised and vulnerable people in society.
Help disadvantaged people access essential social services.
Begin an extremely rewarding career in social work.
As a social worker, you'll have opportunities to make a real difference to some of the most marginalised and vulnerable people in society.
You could take your career in a number of directions with a master's in social work, such as working in child protection, with young people in care, older people, people with learning disabilities, physical disabilities, mental health difficulties, homeless people, people with drug dependencies, or with any other group of people with specialist needs.
The MA Social Work combines classroom learning and practical experience.
You'll study the context of social work, legal and policy frameworks, social work theory, psychological and sociological theory, power, discrimination, and anti-oppressive practice.
You'll consolidate this theoretical knowledge with two placements to put your learning into practice.
A typical week on this social work course will include lectures, seminars and workshops, with a strong emphasis on individual participation and discussion.
During the first semester, you'll also develop a Practice Skills Portfolio that helps you to reflect and make the best use of supervision.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you'll find that a social work master's degree requires a higher level of independent working.
Your progress will be assessed with assignments, written coursework, presentations, professional discussions and workbooks/portfolios.
Throughout the MA Social Work, you'll have one-to-one support from academic staff.
Explore the context of Social Work in England.
Examine legal frameworks and policy contexts for social work with adults, children, young people and families.
Critically reflect upon the main statutes and other legal instruments relating to social work interventions.
Explore ethical and moral frameworks underpinning social work and consider the degree to which the law supports social work values and enhances or constrains ethical decision making in practice.
Develop practice skills, explore the role and value base of social work, and understand service user and carer perspectives.
Consider how discrimination and disadvantage relate to power and oppression.
Develop your understanding of diversity in social work and evaluate the range of needs to particular groups of service users and carers.
Enhance your interpersonal communication and interviewing skills.
Explore a range of sociological and psychological theories and their application to practice.
Learn about different models of assessment and consider the complexities of decision making in professional practice.
Discuss different models of service user and carer involvement, emphasising the importance of partnership working.
Consider professional social work values and power and critically evaluate theoretical perspectives.
Demonstrate effective use of knowledge, skills and commitment to core values in social work in a 70-day placement setting, under the supervision of a Practice Educator.
Actively engage in direct work with a range of people and situations where there may not be simple, clear cut solutions.
Learn from the Practice Educator, other team members, and agency colleagues.
Critically evaluate the process of decision-making in social work practice.
Examine how legislation, social policy, theory and reflexivity combine to inform the complex decisions needed in social work practice.
Develop a deeper understanding of some of the theoretical approaches and how these relate to social work practice.
Critically reflect upon your own social work practice approach.
Understand the nature of social work research to continually evaluate what can be seen as good practice in social work.
Develop the attitude of research-mindedness.
Analyse the differences between quantitative and qualitative methodologies.
Enhance your skills and knowledge in data collection, interpretation and analysis.
Acquire the essential attributes required of a critically informed and reflective practitioner.
Design and implement a research project into a contemporary social work issue/topic of your choice, exploring its contested nature.
Draw on your understanding of research methodologies, relevant theoretical knowledge, policy, and literature within your field of study.
Critically explore the complex and conflicting relationship between research, evidence, policy, and practice in social work to form a well-reasoned debate and show an awareness of how to apply messages from research to social work practice.
Demonstrate effective use of knowledge, skills and commitment to core values in social work in a 100-day placement setting, under the supervision of a Practice Educator.
We require applicants to hold a minimum 2:2 undergraduate degree or equivalent.
You also need Grade C or above in GCSE mathematics and English language, or equivalent qualifications.
Please note, if you're an international applicant, you'll be required to demonstrate that you've met the English Language Testing System (IELTS) at a score of 7.0 in all components, or equivalent, before your application is assessed for the next stage of the selection process and an offer letter is issued.
Supplementary questions for your application To be considered for a place on this course, you must also complete the supplementary questions within the application form.
The supplementary questions and application form will be used to assess whether you'll be invited to attend one of our selection days.
Social work experience To apply for this degree you must have experience (voluntary or paid) in a social care setting.
You can include placements that you've undertaken as part of college, but we do expect more experience than this.
We may also consider any relevant personal experience you might have.
You should clearly describe your experience in the personal statement section of your application and show how this relates to a career in social work.
In addition to the academic qualification and work experience, you'll need: Two satisfactory references A satisfactory health clearance An Enhanced Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) check A completed declaration form about previous criminal convictions (either spent or unspent) and any disciplinary hearings or investigations related to vulnerable adults or safeguarding young people.
Social work is listed in the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (Exceptions) Order 1975 [amended 2013].
This means that we must ask you for an enhanced DBS check.
Some spent convictions and cautions are ‘protected’, which means that we can't take them into account when deciding on your suitability for this course.
You must read the Disclosure and Barring Service Filtering Guide to decide whether or not you need to tell us about your spent convictions or cautions.
If we offer you a place on this course, we'll need you to make a written statement about any prior incidents.
We’ll need your permission to share this anonymised information with our partner placement agencies, so that we can make a judgement on your fitness to practise.
We may also need your permission to contact the agencies involved in any incidents that you declare.
Any offer of a place on the course will be subject to a satisfactory outcome of this process.
However, declaring something doesn't necessarily mean that you'll be prevented from attending the course, and we judge each case on its merits.
We welcome applications from international students, however, it's important to be aware that the focus of the course is the nature and context of social work in England and is based on UK legislation.
On successful completion of this course, and in order to practise as a social worker in England, you would need to be eligible to register with Social Work England and have the right to work in the UK.
Driving While it's not mandatory that you hold a driving licence and have access to a vehicle to undertake this course, please be aware that the availability of placements may be limited by not driving.
Please note, the deadline for applications from international students is Friday 23 May 2025.
To be considered for a place on this course, you must also complete the supplementary questions within the application form.
To apply for this degree you must have experience (voluntary or paid) in a social care setting.
While it's not mandatory that you hold a driving licence and have access to a vehicle to undertake this course, please be aware that the availability of placements may be limited by not driving.
Part-time fees for this course are £833.33 per 15 credits.
A limited number of Social Work bursaries are available.
For more information visit the NHS Business Services Authority Knowledge Base .
MA Social Work is a highly practical postgraduate qualification.
After successful completion of the degree, you'll be eligible to apply to register with Social Work England as a newly qualified social worker.
Many social work jobs are with local authorities, but you could also work in an NHS trust, a voluntary agency, a charity, the criminal justice system, or other agencies helping people in need of support.
With a postgraduate social work degree, you also have the option to continue in academia and apply to study for a PhD.
The University of Sunderland’s Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) regularly hosts visiting speakers and it can be an excellent way to learn from the real-life experience of people who already have a strong track record in social work.
CASS is the centre for applied social science research at the University and you may find opportunities to collaborate with the academic team.
Placements are an essential part of this social work master's degree.
You'll spend a total of 170 days on practice placements, arranged by our Practice Learning Coordinator.
There is in-depth preparation before the placements and you'll be supported and supervised by an assigned practice educator.
Placements allow you to apply your learning in a real-life context and get a sense of what type of social work you might want to specialise in when you graduate.
When you’re ready to start searching for a social work job, you'll already have a wide network of professional contacts who can help you find the right career opportunities.
Page last updated:  11 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/assessment-only-route-qts:
Demonstrate your experience in teaching to gain a formal qualification.
Take one of the fastest routes to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Use your QTS to apply for roles in state-maintained schools in England and Wales.
The Assessment Only Route to QTS (AOR to QTS) is for experienced teachers who have been teaching whole classes for a minimum of two years.
You need to have worked in two different schools and have significant experience of two key stages across one of the following age ranges: 3-11 (primary), 7-14 (middle) or 11-19 (secondary).
The AOR to QTS allows you to demonstrate that you already meet all of the Teachers' Standards for QTS .
The assessment period is a maximum of 12 weeks which commences after registration with Teaching Regulation Agency (TRA).
If you meet the eligibility criteria for AOR to QTS (see our entry requirements), we will ask you to present detailed preliminary evidence about your teaching at interview.
For the final recommendation for QTS, we will re-assess your evidence and assess your teaching.
This assessment will be conducted in the school at which you are working.
Typical applications to this route include people who have taught for more than two years in the independent sector or overseas.
The Assessment Only Route to QTS is also possible if you wish to be assessed while teaching overseas.
Please note that you must be at a school that runs the English National Curriculum, or a school that runs a recognised international curriculum (such as IB, IPC, Cambridge, etc).
If you are awarded QTS, the next step is to begin a period as an Early Career Teacher (ECT).
This will be overseen by your host school and their ECT providing body and not the University.
This includes a personalised programme of professional support and further assessment against the core professional standards for teachers normally organised by your employing school or local authority.
There is no formal teaching on the AOR to QTS course.
Assessment takes place in the school where you are employed.
Assessment periods are for a maximum of 12 weeks.
We provide an individualised assessment plan to suit your requirements which includes the recommended assessment period.
If we consider that a longer period would be beneficial, we will advise you to consider applying for one of our Initial Teacher Training courses.
There is no taught element on this route so you do not need to attend university.
You will be expected to attend an interview, which is normally held on campus.
The assessment for QTS will take place at the school where you are teaching at the time of final assessment.
We require applicants to have the following: We invite potential candidates to an interview where you present a portfolio of initial evidence that shows clear progress towards meeting the QTS standards.
For further information please contact: fes.assessmentonly@sunderland.ac.uk .
We invite potential candidates to an interview where you present a portfolio of initial evidence that shows clear progress towards meeting the QTS standards.
The total fee for this course is:
Page last updated:  03 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-mfl:
Become a confident and innovative foreign languages teacher.
This PGCE Modern Foreign Languages course qualifies you to teach modern foreign languages at secondary level in any state-maintained, denominational school in England.
Being a languages teacher requires creativity to inspire students through finding ways to bring the language and its culture alive, and engaging and sharing your passion for languages with your students.
You will be guided and made to challenge yourself to develop methods of creating your own class materials and developing your teaching approach.
In addition to the development of effective and engaging teaching styles, you will also be prepared to meet the requirements of language within the National Curriculum and GCSE/A Level specifications.
You'll be taught via lectures, workshops, seminars, tutorials, and Canvas (the Virtual Learning Environment), with support from your personal tutors and teaching group.
Placements are an important part of this PGCE MfL course.
You'll engage in work-based training through bespoke teaching placements in North East schools with specialised subject mentors.
In order to be eligible for the award of PGCE with QTS, you must spend a minimum of 120 days in school.
Your progress will be assessed through electronic assignment submissions, case studies, observations, presentations, and production and evaluation of learning resources.
Prior to starting the course, you're required to carry out a five-day pre-programme placement, assisting and observing in a primary school of your own choice, with a focus on your elected route.
This ensures that all trainees have recent and relevant experience in school settings at the start of the course.
Your numeracy and literacy competency will be assessed continuously throughout the course, following the DfE’s removal of the Professional Skills Test.
Languages teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced bursaries of £26,000 and scholarships of £28,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.
The University of Sunderland has partnerships with over 650 schools, colleges and beyond.
Individual Learning Plans are an integral part of the course and are used to track your academic and professional journey.
Page last updated:  11 November 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-religious-education:
Become a confident and innovative RE teacher.
The PGCE Secondary Education in Religious Education will qualify you to teach RE at secondary level in any state-maintained school in England.
This one-year PGCE Religious Education course blends theoretical knowledge with carefully supervised teaching experience.
You will attend placements in a variety of educational settings, to build a rich understanding of the realities of secondary level teaching.
In addition to the development of effective and engaging teaching styles, you will also be prepared to meet the requirements of RE within the National Curriculum and GCSE/A Level specifications.
Subject enhancements in Humanities, British Values and SMSC are embedded as additional levels of specialist knowledge end employability.
This PGCE Religious Education course is taught via lectures, workshops, seminars, tutorials, Canvas (the Virtual Learning Environment), support from your personal tutors and teaching group.
Placements are an important part of this course.
You will engage in work-based training through bespoke teaching placements in North East schools with specialised subject mentors.
Your progress will be assessed through electronic assignment submissions, case studies, observations, presentations and production and evaluation of learning resources.
Prior to starting the course, you are required to carry out a five-day Pre-Programme Placement, assisting and observing in a primary school of your own choice, with a focus on your elected route.
If you are accepted onto the course, you are advised to source your teaching placements prior to the start of the course, though this is not compulsory.
Religious education teachers are in short supply nationally.
The Department for Education has announced bursaries of £10,000 for trainees who meet the eligibility criteria.
Page last updated:  14 October 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/pgce-business:
Spend every day helping young people achieve their potential.
Make the most of your business knowledge.
Teach in secondary schools and colleges.
PGCE Secondary Education in Business has been designed to train teachers to practise as a subject specialist teacher of 11-16 year olds.
You are assessed against the standards for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) across this age range.
This PGCE Business course is taught via lectures, seminars, tutorials, project work, group work, placements, work-based learning and independent learning.
Placements are an important part of this course where you will benefit from practical learning and be supported by school-based trainers and University-based tutors.
Page last updated:  13 September 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/sport-and-exercise-sciences/sports-coaching-physical-education-sc:
DEI College (Greek Taught)
Gain practical coaching/teaching experience through opportunities that will allow the application of theory into practice and the crucial development of practical and professional skills, relevant to the future workplace.
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education aims to develop aspiring coaches and future educators equipped to teach in primary, secondary, and tertiary educational settings.
You'll focus on fitness, training, and performance whether that be aligned to athlete development or the delivery of the national curriculum for physical education.
You'll complete at least 150 hours of work-related experience through local and regional links with sports clubs, public and private fitness centres/gyms, schools, and after-school sports and holiday clubs.
This course is aligned to the industry standards set by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Methods include small group work, practical teaching/coaching activities, work-based activities, workshops, lectures, industry speakers, tutorials, laboratory practicals, computer-based activities, presentations, and independent learning.
Assessment methods include lab reports, essays, presentations, reflective portfolios, online quizzes and exams, problem-based learning, and competency-based practicals.
European College (DEI) is located in the centre of Thessaloniki.
Its state of the art facilities, including spacious and fully-equipped lecture rooms, computer labs, amphitheatre and library with study area, are designed to meet the needs of a modern education centre.
Ethnikis Aminis 9 and Tsimiski 131 54621, Thessaloniki, Greece Tel: +30 2310 251888 Email: info@dei.edu.gr
This course is delivered at one of our Study Centres.
Use the tab on the left to contact them directly to find out more about their facilities and location.
Contact the study centre for more information on their specific entry requirements.
Contact the study centre directly for information on fees.
Our sporting courses are professions-facing.
The course embeds practical experiences which allows you to put theory into practice so that on graduation, you are well equipped with a broad and in-depth knowledge and skillset.
You'll meet and work with professionals in the fields of sports coaching, sports development, the leisure industry, and physical education (teaching).
Potential employers for graduates of this course include sports clubs, schools and colleges, national sports associations, sports and leisure companies, and recreation services.
Page last updated:  09 July 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/cybersecurity-digital-forensics-sc:
Course starts: 20 October 2025 Apply now
Course starts: 23 February 2026 Apply now
The course is excellent preparation for jobs in cybersecurity and digital forensics, which is a rapidly growing area given the rise in computer-related crime.
Research, investigate and analyse the cybersecurity incidents, threats, and vulnerabilities that make up the cyber threat landscape, both in terms of recent emergent issues and those issues which recur over time.
Discuss and investigate advanced applications in computer forensics such as employability, payment card industry, e-disclosure, social media, internet crime, malware & spyware, network forensics, and mobile phone forensics.
Contact the Study Centre directly for information on facilities and location.
Please contact the Study Centre for information on fees and finance.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/doctor-business-administration-sc:
Explore the link between issues in business and management and relevant academic theory, and apply this to the critical investigation of problems, the creation of solutions, and the introduction of change within the workplace.
The Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) is the same level of academic qualification as a PhD and is designed for experienced professionals who wish to undertake a programme that is applied in nature and of practical value to their career.
The programme recognises that real-world problems inhabit a space that is dynamic, multi-faceted and complex, and acknowledges this reality by adopting a multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary approach to reflect the professional world.
The DBA also incorporates the concept of self-reflection, critical reflective practice, and research methodology, with a practical approach to addressing workplace issues and making a distinctive contribution to the profession.
This programme is also available on campus at Sunderland and our London base.
DBA and DProf Programmes at the University of the Commonwealth Caribbean (UCC) in Kingston, Jamaica
We offer DBA and DProf programmes at UCC with academic programmes accredited to postgraduate level by the University Council of Jamaica.
University of Sunderland academic staff will visit Kingston, Jamaica to deliver the first stage of the course at UCC.
In addition, qualified UCC faculty members will collaborate with University of Sunderland Directors of Study in supervising the research of doctoral candidates.
University of Sunderland in Hong Kong Professional Doctorate (DBA Pathway)
Delivered from our Hong Kong Campus, this taught Professional Doctorate Programme is part of our generic suite of Professional Doctorate pathways at the University of Sunderland.
Colleagues in the UK study parallel pathways leading to EdD and generic DProf doctoral awards.
Our Hong Kong programme focuses on work leading to a DBA by the Professional Doctorate learning pathway.
The programme has been designed to enable those working in professional practice settings in the business community to undertake a doctoral-level qualification as part of their professional roles.
Supported by academic staff from both the UK and Hong Kong, our DBA supports you in combining state-of-the-art professional practice and the concept of the reflective practitioner with relevant academic theory and helps you to apply this to the investigation of work-based problems, the creation of effective solutions and the introduction of optimal change in your workplace.
The taught programme draws together the concepts of self–reflection, reflective practice, and research methodology, and applies them practically to addressing workplace issues and making a fundamentally unique difference and contribution to knowledge in the business community.
The programme benefits greatly from a cross-university approach both within the core team who are managing and delivering the programme, and from the different perspectives that our practitioners undertaking the programme bring from their wealth of experience in the workplace.
The programme operates through the lens of recognition that workplace research inhabits a space which is by its very nature complex, ambiguous and multi-faceted.
If you require more information, contact the Programme Leader or Hong Kong campus.
Following successful completion of all three modules, you will work independently on your chosen research topic with support from your academic supervisors.
During this phase of the programme, you will have the opportunity to attend a series of optional study days that cover a variety of topics to help you with your studies.
The final submission for the DBA is either a report together with a portfolio of supporting evidence (totalling 80,000 words) or a thesis which will normally be around 80,000 words.
The exact nature of your submission is decided in discussion with your Director of Studies.
All candidates must also undergo a viva voce examination.
Formulate a robust piece of research design and methodology identifying your own potentially unique contribution to your field of research and professional practice.
Focus on the processes of formal instrumentation, measurement, and data collection, which characterises robust research practice.
Gain insight into project management and portfolio construction and develop skills in critical appraisal and the need to be flexibly responsive to critical appraisal.
Consider the potential impact and dissemination opportunities of your research.
Develop critical thinking and writing skills in preparation for study at doctoral level.
Engage critically and dialogically with current issues and debates in your specialist field of professional practice, raising awareness of the subjectivity of knowledge and building confidence and ability to make valued judgments.
Select an issue of strategic importance at the leading edge of your chosen specialist field and conduct in-depth research on the current debates affecting that issue.
Review the various viewpoints offered by specialist researchers and commentators, consider the conceptual and theoretical stances supporting the various viewpoints, identify possible implications of those different viewpoints for the professional community of practice, and finally reach (and justify) your stance on the issue.
Reflect on how your own and alternative modes of engagement influence your understanding of events and processes within practice-based research.
Consider various approaches to the study of epistemology and select the approach best suited to your research, which will include positivism, constructivism, and critical theory.
Develop an understanding of the methodology of research and the approach that would reflect the epistemology of the research project undertaken.
Assess qualitative and quantitative research methods and develop an understanding of how philosophical issues will affect the relationship between data and theory, the overall design of the research, and the validity, authenticity, and trustworthiness of the research outcomes.
Develop an awareness of the ethical issues and debates in research.
Please contact UCC Jamaica for information on their facilities:
17 Worthington Avenue Kingston 5 Jamaica
+1 (876) 906-3000 direct@ucc.edu.jm
Please contact University of Sunderland Hong Kong for more information about facilities and location.
7/F South China Building 1-3 Wyndham Street Central, Hong Kong MTR Exit D1
This programme is offered at University of the Commonwealth Caribbean (UCC) in Kingston, Jamaica, and University of Sunderland in Hong Kong.
The normal entry requirement for a research degree is a UK honours degree (first or upper second class) or a UK Masters degree or a qualification which is regarded as equivalent.
If English is not your first language, you will need an International English Language Testing System (IELTS) overall score of 6.5, with at least 6.0 in each component: reading, writing, listening and speaking (or equivalent).
We will assess your application and research proposal to make a decision on whether to offer you a place using the following criteria: Research proposal Research proposals should have a business management focus.
You are required to write a 2-3 page proposal that specifies the: Aims of your doctoral project Project's relevance to your workplace and profession Proposed methodology and techniques for analysis Outline of a potential research plan Personal statement You must write your personal statement (included in the application form) addressing the following points: Your professional experience and standing The recognition by your peers as a leading professional in your field The level at which you are operating within your organisation or profession and the extent to which you can provide significant influence or drive substantial change The opportunity that you have to make a significant contribution to professional practice and/or how you exhibit your powers of creativity and innovation Along with your application form, you must upload the following documents: Research proposal Qualification certificates IELTS certificates, if applicable Two references, one of which must be academic Without all of the above documents, we will not be able make you an offer on this programme.
Research proposals should have a business management focus.
You must write your personal statement (included in the application form) addressing the following points: Your professional experience and standing The recognition by your peers as a leading professional in your field The level at which you are operating within your organisation or profession and the extent to which you can provide significant influence or drive substantial change The opportunity that you have to make a significant contribution to professional practice and/or how you exhibit your powers of creativity and innovation Along with your application form, you must upload the following documents: Research proposal Qualification certificates IELTS certificates, if applicable Two references, one of which must be academic Without all of the above documents, we will not be able make you an offer on this programme.
Along with your application form, you must upload the following documents: Research proposal Qualification certificates IELTS certificates, if applicable Two references, one of which must be academic Without all of the above documents, we will not be able make you an offer on this programme.
Please contact the study centre directly for fee information.
For more information please contact the Graduate Research Support team: UCC-DProf@sunderland.ac.uk
Dr John Fulton Programme Leader +44 (0)191 515 2529 john.fulton@sunderland.ac.uk
Page last updated:  20 June 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/undergraduate-community-youth-work:
Qualify for an incredibly satisfying career in youth and community work where you'll be changing lives every day.
However, community development and youth work are vocations, and it’s important to learn from real work-based experience as well as from academic study.
By the time you graduate, you'll have spent at least 800 hours in professional practice, within a minimum of two local community development and youth work organisations.
If you’re already working in a community and youth work setting, then you may be able to complete your placement at your workplace, as long as the work is relevant and there are adequate supervision arrangements in place.
Learning on campus will reflect the collaborative, empowering and reflective nature of community development and youth work – so expect a lot of dialogue, reflection and group work.
Throughout your degree, you'll have one-to-one support from a designated Personal Academic Tutor who will support your progress from Fresher’s Week to graduation.
The course utilises a range of assessment methods, including written assignments (reports, essays, reflections); individual, paired and group presentations; professional discussions; and the construction of portfolios.
The broad range of assessment strategies encompasses the skills required within the community development and youth work profession, allowing you to develop a wide range of competencies while gradually increasing your confidence.
Learn about the history and evolution of community and youth work as a distinct profession.
Enable current contexts to be understood through historical and developmental lenses with a focus on social justice.
Focus directly on the profession of community and youth work in its contemporary context.
Develop your confidence and academic skills in reading, writing, group work, presentations, analysis of information, using library resources, referencing, and others to enable you to fulfil your potential.
Build your confidence in applying theory to practice and start to form your professional identity.
Bridge the transition to Year 2 while consolidating learning from Year 1.
Explore the concept and practice of reflexivity to optimise your learning via teaching inputs, workplace activity (including the development of a specific piece of work), supervision and reflection on your progress in meeting the professional expectations in the NOS for Youth Work and Community Development.
Focus on the impact of multiple forms of oppression.
Link the local with the global and personal to develop an appreciation and understanding of how oppression serves to exclude and subjugate young people and communities.
Challenge yourself to consider how you risk improving rather than transforming oppressive forms of practice and how this can be resisted.
Analyse leadership of self, organisations, practice and change through the lenses of rights, empowerment, equalities, ethics, and professionalism.
Examine forms of resistance through subcultures, cultural movements, and collective action for social change.
Build on your research skills developed during Year 2 and demonstrate your capacity to undertake a research project.
Benefit your own learning, your placement organisation, and the needs of young people in the community via a traditional dissertation or an organisational needs analysis.
Focus on a critical evaluation of the work of leading theorists and within frameworks of critical theory relevant to community development and youth work practice.
Undertake an evaluation of contemporary cultural discourse, including the role of media in our understanding of the world.
Explore key concepts such as social justice and empowerment and determine how practice-based concerns related to a United Nations Sustainable Development Goal can be analysed and solved.
Use techniques of reflexivity to appraise your progress across the whole course to consolidate and confirm your identity and growth as a professional, critical practitioner.
Complete the module ready to bring about transformative change in the field.
Examine an area of interest that directly influences community development and youth practice in depth.
Shape the module to support your professional development and competencies, giving you an additional edge when you graduate.
*Alternatively, you may choose to engage with learning from another course for this elective module.
It's recommended that you've completed a minimum of 100 hours of practical work with young people and/or communities prior to commencement on a course.
We're seeking ESB recognition as a professional community development qualification for this course, though the validation process isn't yet complete.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-education-send-sc:
Please contact European College (DEI) directly for information on fees and finance.
Page last updated:  17 May 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/international-early-career-teachers:
Develop your professional practice to make the transition from novice to expert teacher.
Tailor the course content to meet your own requirements.
Improve your career prospects and expertise.
The PgCert in Professional Development for International Early Career Teachers will allow you to develop your skills, knowledge, and pedagogy to make the effective transition from novice to expert teacher.
The course offers opportunities to enhance your professional identity whilst critically examining discrete areas of practice and subject specialisms, with the aim to accelerate your career and expertise.
The course has been designed in response to the global teacher recruitment crisis and the need to employ and retain recently qualified or 'novice' teachers.
The aim of this PgCert is to facilitate your development and equip you with the tools you need to bridge this gap.
The PgCert is studied via distance learning to ensure that early career teachers are able to engage independently with the content whilst balancing teaching and workload responsibilities.
You'll have access to the University's Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), which will give you access to all necessary resources, including journals, e-books, and audio-visual content.
The course will be delivered asynchronously with some 'live' and pre-recorded content, as well as micro-lectures, discussion forums, and a range of other learning activities that encourage the formation of a community of practice.
A range of formative and summative assessments will be used such as coursework, presentations, and an action research project that focuses on reflecting and developing your practice.
This module facilitates ongoing reflexive behaviours to support identity development and navigation.
You'll explore research-informed practice, self-reflection, mentoring dynamics, and leadership skills, all of which can be utilised when considering career trajectories moving forward.
Building on the previous module, you'll have the opportunity to critically reflect upon curriculum drivers, including contextual and international influences.
You'll also consider your personal pedagogical approaches whilst focusing on aspects of improvement and opportunities for specialism within discrete areas of practice.
You'll have the chance to bring together theoretical research and pedagogical practice to strengthen your teaching and learning approaches.
You need to have a teaching qualification and be employed in an international school.
The fee for this course is £2,500.
The PgCert in Professional Development for International Early Career Teachers is ideal for newly qualified and novice teachers working in international schools who want to deepen their understanding and accelerate their careers.
This course provides you with a highly respected qualification from a UK institution, which will boost your employability in an international context.
On successful completion of the course you can progress onto the MA Education or MA International Education , which are also available to study via distance learning.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-marketing-sc:
MDIS Tashkent
This MBA is taught in quality-assured partners around the world.
An MBA is an internationally respected business qualification and in one year, you'll develop a strategic understanding of all aspects of managing a successful business.
This Master in Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on marketing, allowing you to specialise in the marketing aspects of senior management.
The course prepares you for senior roles that have major responsibility.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, class discussions, case studies, group work, presentations, and applied study.
Assessment is mainly through the dissertation and assignments.
This module looks at the systems of internal measures put in place by those responsible for financial management.
By managing risk, these measures seek to ensure that financial and other resources are used in regular, ethical, economical and effective ways that are to the benefit of the business and support its objectives.
The module examines financial management and control, the system which directs and controls the financial effects of budget user’s operations in a way that ensures that they support business success.
Learn how to strategically manage the performance of international organisations across different socio-cultural settings.
Explore how to strategically manage and lead international organisations to explore and exploit opportunities in pursuit of corporate profitability and social responsibility goals.
Examine case studies of real-world international organisations, and research-led strategy workshop activities, in order to critically analyse and evaluate contemporary developments in international business and management.
Expose yourself to a range of leadership and management styles and practice.
Learn about subject areas in which the concepts may be used explicitly or implicitly such as strategy and change, the three levels of strategy and decision making cycles, the differences between management and leadership, leadership behaviours and motivation, emotional intelligence and leadership styles, and more.
Develop a critical understanding of how organisations co-create value for customers through the integration of core aspects of operations, operations strategies, and strategic marketing management.
Recognise a value creation as a primary aim of organisations.
Understand how organisations operations and the market work from end to end.
Select the forma of your final project: business dissertation, applied corporate project, or route specialism.
Interpret and analyse qualitative, and if appropriate, quantitative data, using appropriate statistical and computational techniques.
Present empirical findings and implications for the activities and operation of the organisation/business sector.
Learn the key aspects of digital marketing including search engine optimisation, website development, e-commerce, advertising online, email marketing, social media marketing, and digital analytics, and understand the role of each in effective online marketing.
Investigate how the likes of personalisation, viral marketing, influencers, affiliate marketing, and gaming can be successfully integrated within a digital strategy.
Explore what the digital marketer must consider in addressing the behaviour and expectations of customers in both B2C and B2B markets, be they local, national, or global.
Explore contemporary approaches to branding including customers' interaction with brands and each other in the co-creation of products and services.
Develop a critical awareness of the role of brands within a range of markets and organisational settings.
Expand a range of transferable skills and competencies significant to obtaining a career in brand management.
Please contact MDIS Tashkent for more information about facilities and location.
28 Bunyodkor Ave.
Chilanzar district Uzbekistan Tashkent 100185
mdis@mdis.uz
Please contact SEGi College for information on facilities:
SEGi College 33, Jalan Hang Lekiu City Centre 50100 Kuala Lumpur Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur Malaysia
SEGI Penang Wisma Greenhall 43 Green Hall 10200 Penang Malaysia
SEGi University College Sarawak No.
211, Jalan Bukit Mata Kuching 93100 Kuching Sarawak Malaysia
Please contact SEGi College for information on facilities: SEGI Subang Jaya Persiaran Kewajipan USJ 1 47600 UEP Subang Jaya Selangor DE Malaysia
Please contact SEGi University for information on facilities:
SEGI Kota Damansara No.
9, Jalan Teknologi Taman Sains Selangor Kota Damansara PJU 5 47810 Petaling Jaya Selangor Darul Ehsan Malaysia
Please contact the relevant study centre for more information on location and facilities.
Please contact the study centre for information on fees for this course.
Employers recognise its worth, and the value that an MBA-qualified business leader can bring to their organisation.
MBA graduates from Sunderland now work in a number of senior management positions including financial controller in the Gulf region, general manager in Eastern Europe, division chief in China, and vice president of a Canadian corporation.
Master of Business Administration programme specification (.pdf)
Page last updated:  19 March 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-international-human-rights-sc:
Please contact the Study Centre directly for more information about the delivery of this course.
DEI College is located in the centre of Thessaloniki.
Contact them directly to find out more about their facilities and location.
Please contact the study centre directly for information on fees, finance and start dates.
As a result, you’ll have an important edge when applying for a range of legal roles with the police, and prison or probation services.
In addition, a Masters degree will enhance opportunities in academic roles or further study towards a PhD.
Page last updated:  19 April 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-commercial-law-trade-sc:
As a result, you’ll have an important edge when applying for a range of legal roles with the police, and prison or probation services.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/postgraduate-law-sc:
Law LLM will set you on track for a successful career in law and help you develop valuable skills employers look for, including Advanced Legal Skills and International Perspectives in Law.
The course mixes taught elements with independent research, and you can negotiate the topic of your dissertation project to fit with your personal interests.
This course is delivered at DEI College in Greece.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/law/undergraduate-law-sc:
DEI College
Ledra
Take your first step towards a rewarding career in law and develop sought-after skills, including commercial awareness, personal integrity and an ethical approach.
This is a Qualifying Law Degree recognised by the Law Society of England and Wales and regulated by the Bar Standards Board and Solicitors Regulation Authority.
During the course, you’ll study modules such as Criminal Law and Procedure, Public Law and the Law of the European Union and Practical Tort Law.
This course is studied at DEI College in Greece.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/english/english-study-centre:
Follow a Pathway: Literature, Language or Creative Writing.
Develop your own writing style.
Graduate with a life-long love for language and literature, and a highly respected degree.
You'll explore the best of English Language, Creative Writing and English Literature, gaining understanding of their interrelation and the value of studying each area in depth at degree level.
Following your own pathway, you will graduate with one of three named degrees: BA (Hons) English: Language , BA (Hons) English: Literature, or BA (Hons) English: Creative Writing .
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars and group work, as well as independent study.
Your progress will be assessed mainly through coursework, such as written assignments and presentations, with the opportunity to carry out a more extended piece in your third year.
Explore key narrative concepts such as setting, dialogue, and point of view by reading Kazuo Ishiguro’s novel, ‘Never Let me Go’.
Examine a selection of short stories by writers such as Thomas Hardy, Katherine Mansfield, and Hanif Kureishi.
Familiarise yourself with the main tools and concepts necessary for analysing poetry from a variety of periods.
Learn how drama and criticism work and see how the way we judge literature, film, plays, novels, and songs today is similar to the way it was done in the past.
Examine tragedy from Ancient Greece through to the renaissance and towards the present.
Explore the conventions of comedy using Shakespeare’s ‘Much Ado About Nothing’ and examine critical writing, discussing the insights it gives us into literature.
Explore the historical development of approaches to literature from the ancients to the 20th century.
Familiarise yourself with the major movements in English literary history and literary thought using critical extracts from each period.
Examine central questions in relation to criticism, covering issues such as the authority given to literary critics’ judgements, valid critical interpretations, and classifying particular literary approaches.
Examine the major theoretical approaches to literary criticism emerging from the beginning of the 20th century.
Study different approaches, for example structuralism or Marxism, and apply them to a short literary text.
Develop a palette of critical and theoretical perspectives and concepts that can be applied to fiction, poetry, or drama.
Discover the emergence of literature from the medieval period into the renaissance.
Learn how mankind evolved from a belief in the great chain of being and the divine right of kings into a humanistic system of beliefs where individuals were respected for the first time.
Explore the works of the great writers of the period from Dante, Spenser, and Marlowe to Shakespeare, Bacon, and Milton.
Explore the most famous and adapted pieces of writing that derive from the Victorian Age.
Study how topics of gender, class, art, and religion feature in the poems of Alfred Tennyson, Elizabeth Barrett, and Emily Dickinson and in the fiction of George Eliot and drama of Henrik Ibsen.
In addition, students on all pathways will take an additional 40 credits from a combination of any core or designated modules above, or from our range of optional modules.
Example optional modules:
Choose four modules from the list below.
Explore modern Gothic fiction from both literary and theoretical perspectives, focusing on a series of Gothic monsters.
Delve into themes and issues in modern Gothic fiction such as vampires, serial killers, ghosts, terrorists, werewolves, dark fairies, witches, and zombies.
Gain the ability to employ a range of critical approaches for analysing a range of Gothic texts.
Gain an introduction to a range of Shakespearean plays, covering the main genres of comedy, tragedy, history, romance, and problem plays.
Learn how to critically reflect on how knowledge in the discipline is produced through an appreciation of critical concepts and methodologies, in application, as well as debates around the composition of the subject.
Core modules (40 credits)
Choose two modules (40 credits) from the following:
Example optional modules
Choose two of the following modules (choices may vary from year to year):
Take a further two modules (40 credits) from final year modules.
Gain the skills required to win any argument with ease.
Discover how to convince people over to your way of thinking and write powerful and persuasive copy sought after by companies across the globe.
Learn how to disarm your opponent by pinpointing the weaknesses in their speeches, as well as how to write and speak with confidence and power wielding rhetoric capable of defeating any competitor or opponent.
Gain wide-ranging insight into prose forms, from flash to the novella.
Find your own voice and experiment within the form to create something new.
Develop experience in honing and putting your ideas across with the help of a ‘mock’ editorial panel.
Analyse both classical and contemporary plays, giving you the tools to write your own one act plays.
Learn more about innovative theatre, including immersive theatre, and participate in script-in-hand readings.
Explore many aspects of poetry from the traditional to the contemporary.
Examine writers and performers such as Sylvia Plath and Kate Tempest.
Practise in performing your work, culminating in a performance piece for your final assignment.
Realise the secrets behind the writing of ‘The Hobbit’ and ‘The Lord of the Rings’.
Tap into the mythical creatures who inhabit your dreams, the dreams of people around the world, and the psyches and backgrounds of J.R.R.
Tolkien and J.K.
Rowling to discover the rationale behind their respective creations.
Create your own hero and the monster he or she is destined to confront.
Discover the monsters feared by the ancients and see how they appeared in classical literature.
Acquire a detailed understanding of the characteristics of various genres of prose fiction.
Focus on writing within genres and gain the essential knowledge to start writing your own genre fiction.
Cover all the major genres and concentrate on the strength of each one, gaining skills which are both genre-specific and transferable across genres.
Engage with published examples of each genre, examining how and why they work, and what strengths in writing each genre relies on, before producing material informed by the reading.
Submit an idea for a novel before the module begins, then develop a holistic view of the requirements for writing this novel, such as ‘the elastic storyboard’.
Complete the module and progress your idea using the skills and knowledge gained, with the understanding of how to submit a submissions packet which includes a sample chapter, synopsis, and covering letter.
Please contact the study centre directly for information on their facilities.
Please contact the study centre for information on fees and finance.
BA (Hons) English is an extremely well-respected degree.
Your highly developed skills in communication, research and analysis will make you a perfect fit for a wide range of organisations, including graduate training schemes.
Many of our graduates progress to careers in teaching, journalism, business and publishing.
Page last updated:  07 March 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-film-production-sc:
Study your favourite genres.
Work with industry-standard equipment to turn your creative vision into reality.
Understand the key concepts and practical skills required to produce and edit a video advertising campaign.
Learn how to use the cameras, lights, sound recording equipment and editing software.
In production groups, plan, shoot and edit a short film.
Explore dramatic form and the aesthetics of filmmaking.
Devise, develop and deliver a factual film for a business, event or person.
Learn the technical skills and creative practices required to produce a factual piece of work.
Get an introduction to sound design and recording techniques.
Learn professional practices in audio production and mixing using digital audio mixers, microphones and sound editing software.
Develop and write a short film script.
Learn about genre, narrative, structure, character, and how to create and correctly format a film script.
Study the key theoretical debates and approaches in the subject area of Film Studies (both historical and contemporary).
Develop practical skills in film reading and film analysis.
Create a short film, in groups, geared towards the short film festival marketplace.
Develop your critical understanding of dramatic techniques and technical ability in a variety of production roles such as director, cinematographer and editor.
Focus on recent and contemporary film theories such as feminism, psychoanalysis, postmodernism and queer theory.
Explore the key approaches to experimental film and digital film practice,video art and its practitioners.
Conceive, plan, develop and edit a short video project and be encouraged to consider experimental approaches.
Explore and learn to control moving camera equipment including Steadicams, Track and Dollies, Jib-arm, and sliders in order to create professional moving compositions
Gain a complete understanding of motion graphics, animation and some compositing concepts, techniques and vocabulary.
Produce an infographic and a series of TV adverts.
Develop your technical understanding of Avid Media Composer and Pro Tools, and how this software is used to craft a video project.
Develop your critical understanding of editing and audio mixing from a dramatic/artistic perspective.
Create a high-end video project for a client of your choosing such as an individual, a business, or a band.
Demonstrate your technical ability/skills in creating highly composed compositions, effective audio, and professional editing/grade.
Produce a substantial piece of work based on a 'live brief’ set by the client.
Work closely with Drama students and create, develop, shoot and edit this film under the guidance of lectures and the client.
Further explore the documentary form and work in small groups to produce a short documentary.
Take on one of the key production roles such as Director, Producer, Sound, Editor or Cinematographer.
Explore the role played by music, performance and genre in the evocation of emotion in cinema.
Examine a rich variety of films drawn from international cinema, TV drama and the music video.
Study a film topic and further develop key theories and debates relating to this topic.
This topic changes every year and in the past has ranged from the War Film, Superheroes, to Horror.
Examine a range of horror films’ construction of ‘the body’, asking what kinds of cultural fascinations, anxieties, pleasures and power dynamics might be being played out over the bodies of horror.
Examine the historical roots of the science fiction and fantasy genres, from its literary origins, through to its subsequent appearance on radio, film and more specifically television.
Explore several key theoretical approaches to the study of the genre, including fan cultures, representation and dystopian/utopian futures.
Please contact International Advertising, Communication and Technology (IACT) College for more information about facilities and location.
VSQ @ PJ City Centre Block 2 Unit 13A-01 Jalan Utara Section 14 46200 Petaling Jaya Selangor Darul Ehsan Malaysia Phone: 7954 1909 / 7956 0211 Email: enquiries@iact.edu.my
Please contact the International Advertising, Communication and Technology (IACT) College for information on facilities.
Please contact IACT College for information on fees.
Examples of possible careers for our Film Production graduates include:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-it-management-sc:
Join the increasing demand for highly effective IT managers and equip yourself with the knowledge to become a valued professional.
Gain the specific IT knowledge of e-business models and the practical skills necessary for developing and implementing IT systems.
The course is based at our partners in Kenya and Ghana, and mixes taught elements with independent research and supportive supervision.
It is a direct response to the increasing demand for highly effective IT managers, and our aim is to equip you with the knowledge to become a valued professional, combining advanced technical expertise with strong managerial skills.
You will gain the specific IT knowledge of e-business models and the practical skills necessary for developing and implementing IT systems, alongside developing management skills.
This module covers research methods including qualitative and quantitative approaches.
You will carry out literature surveys, data collection, data analysis, critical evaluation and appraisal of published work and data sets.
You will also learn how to research and write a technical paper.
In this module you will cover project feasibility, identifying stakeholders and their requirements, measures of success and failure, financial evaluation and management.
You will also cover project planning, project execution and project management methodologies as well as quality control.
This module covers organisational structure, team leadership, group dynamics, training and development of project team members, subcontractors, and joint/multiple ventures.
You will also cover managing change; conflict and politics; power, decision-making, negotiation and collaboration in project teams; communication in project management including briefings and meetings; and the role of the project manager as co-ordinator and facilitator.
This module examines trends, developments and standards associated with electronic commerce, networks and the internet.
You will be exposed to e-business models, e-commerce classification, online trading mechanisms, B2C and B2B scenarios, application architectures, online transaction systems, supply chains, value chain management, customer relationship management, business process integration, interoperability and legacy system issues.
In this module you will analyse the pathology of information systems and reported cases of systems success and/or failure to determine key factors and techniques such as post-implementation reviews and risk checklists.
You will also cover risk identification, analysis techniques, and generic risk management frameworks as well as evaluating the relationship between risks and opportunities.
You will explore tools, techniques and the latest developments in Intelligent Systems and their applications in management.
You will also cover the systems approach, adaptive and learning systems, active information systems, machine-learning techniques, information management, knowledge management, intelligent knowledge-based systems, expert systems and data warehousing for decision support.
You will study data mining in detail: the techniques; the methodologies; the best practices; and the use of techniques for business applications.
You will study risk analysis including: risk definition, certainty, uncertainty, risk management methodology, and risk identification and quantification.
You will also cover the applications available for decision support relating to project management problems.
You will undertake a real-world projec t with the support of a sponsor.
It will include both a research and a practical element.
Please contact INtel College for information on facilities:
INtel College Tel: (254)-(020)-4182646 INtel College Regional Centre for the University of Sunderland Institute for Higher Education Excellence PO Box 48620 00100 GPO Nairobi Kenya
Please contact BlueCrest College for information on facilities:
contactus@bluecrest.edu.gh
BlueCrest College Accra Campus Cola Street Kokomlemle PO Box AN18392 Accra Ghana
This course is available at INtel College (Nairobi, Kenya) and BlueCrest College (Accra, Ghana).
Contact the relevant study centre for information on fees and finance.
Employment of IT professionals through to 2020 is forecast to grow nearly twice as fast as the UK average.
Our specialist postgraduate training in IT management will enhance your employability and open up new job opportunities.
On completing this course you will be equipped with the skills and knowledge for employment in any organisation with an IT department.
Potential roles include:
Page last updated:  08 March 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-data-science-study-centres:
This developed Data Science course will provide you with the technical and practical skills to analyse big data that is key to success in future business, digital media and science.
Study industry-specific topics and specialise in areas such as data mining, machine learning, data analytics, and visualisation.
Assessment methods include written reports and research papers, practical assignments and the Masters project.
Please contact GUSTO University for more information about their facilities and location:
GUSTO University, Myanmar 289 (A) Pyay Road Sanchaung Township Yangon Myanmar
+959 429 991 009
Please contact  for more information on their specific requirements and equivalent qualifications from outside the UK.
Please contact the study centre directly for information on fees and finance.
The speed at which individuals, businesses, organisations and governments are generating data is increasing at an unprecedented rate.
Feedback from employers suggest that there is a significant skills gap in Data Science – there is a need for skilled professionals to make sense of the huge amount of data being generated.
The MSc in Data Science seeks to develop graduates who will become proficient data scientists with the technical knowledge base and skills set to master the complex problems and complex data requirements emanating from Big Data.
The course will enable graduates to utilise the constantly changing and evolving modern technologies that continuously reshape the way digital interaction and communication takes place.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-mass-communications-sc:
In a media-saturated environment it can be difficult to be heard or stand out from the crowd.
With the BA (Hons) Mass Communications (Top-Up) degree you can convert your existing qualifications into a full degree and learn how best to plan, develop, and realise your creative ambitions.
This course blends a mixture of theory and critical approaches to creative and practical output.
Modules like Media Studies explore the roles played by the media in shaping our perception of the contemporary world, while Moving Camera gives you the opportunity to make dynamic films using advanced motion-based techniques.
You can explore contemporary trends within popular culture while pursuing your own cultural research interests with guided support from tutors.
Advanced Digital Post Production techniques will prepare you for a world of professional video editing and FX work while the extended Media Project will see you work towards fully realising a major piece of practical work from inception to completion.
You 'll experience a broad range of different teaching experiences based on the type of modules you take.
Theory-based modules tend to be taught via lectures supported with seminar groups, whereas the practice-based modules employ a mixture of workshops and technical demonstrations alongside guided tuition.
Some modules put you at the centre of your own independent learning experience supported with regularly scheduled one-to-one feedback sessions, whereas production-based modules often require you to work in small groups in order to complete larger-scale tasks.
The two theory-based modules are assessed with presentations and essays whereas the three practical modules are assessed on the media forms that are produced as part of the module (eg pitches, films, projects, evaluations).
Media forms tend to be group-based while evaluations are independent.
Choose from one of two strands; Media and Modernity or Advertising and Television Drama.
Media and Modernity involves a consideration of the media’s position and significance in modern social life, focusing on specific topics such as the organization of mediated interaction, experiences of globalization and the uses of new media technologies.
Advertising and Television Drama involves an examination of contemporary advertising in terms of its textual structures, branding, reliance on celebrity and the pleasures that it offers to consumers, followed by the detailed analysis of TV drama texts - raising important questions of ideology, power and identity.
Produce a piece of independent research informed by the theoretical approaches associated with British Cultural Studies tradition.
The first weeks of the module will be devoted to structured introductory sessions, supervision sessions and information retrieval advice.
Thereafter, your work takes the form of independent study, supported by regular supervisory sessions.
Expand upon and further develop your moving camera skills and build upon your critical understanding of moving cameras, their images and the impact of those images.
Explore the impact of visuals in relation to story and narrative.
Through lectures, workshops, exercises, screenings and discussion, this module will expand upon the practical skills and theoretical understanding of the Steadicam, Track and Dollies, Jib Arm and other camera conveyances.
Develop your critical awareness and understanding of conceptual issues and how these relate to your practical work.
Originate, develop, script, shoot and edit a 3-4 minute single camera production which will be shot entirely on the Moving Camera equipment.
Submit a 2000 word critical evaluation which will demonstrate your understanding of Moving Camera in Film and Video.
Objectively analyse your production and demonstrate your understanding of your role, moving camera techniques, technology and terminology.
Submit a Production File, documenting and evidencing the production.
Expand and develop on your basic and intermediate digital video effects and post production skills.
Plan and develop an advanced digital post production project, which may be a self standing project in its own right, or may form part of your final year major production, which explores and incorporates advanced digital video post production techniques such as advanced digital video effects work, colour grading, surround sound or a combination of these as appropriate to the specific project and your skills, interest and specialism.
Critically examine the position of your own work with regards to current digital post production practices.
Produce a major piece of media work suitable for film, television or online.
This can include factual or fictional work produced in a single or multi-camera format (depending on your pre-requisite/co-requisite modules).
Work in the genre of your choice from the selection available, on an appropriate platform.
Work in an appropriately sized group (depending on the scale of the project).
Conduct research and develop your ideas before pitching them to tutors.
The concept will be agreed by a panel of assessors and will then be developed and produced.
Reflect on your work through a final evaluation that offers a critical insight into your project through the use of appropriate critical theory, critical Film/TV textual analysis and professional experience.
Please contact School of Business and Computer Science for more information about facilities and location.
San Fernando Campus 27 - 31 Fran St San Fernando Trinidad and Tobago
Champs Fleurs Campus 53-54 Sagan Drive Champs Fleurs Trinidad & Tobago
Trincity Campus Corner of Beaulieu Avenue and Trincity Boulevard Trincity Trinidad & Tobago
Please contact the Study Centre directly for more information about facilities and location.
Skills-based degrees with a firm basis in conceptual thinking and critical reflection should equip you for a career in the local media industry.
It should also open the door to future higher degree study at postgraduate level.
Graduates can go into creative media, television, film production, broadcasting, and teaching industries with this qualification.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/network-systems-engineering-sc:
Botswana Accountancy College, Francistown
Top up your existing qualification to a full honours degree.
Develop the practical skills that are needed by relevant employers.
Graduate as a competent network practitioner with a range of up-to-date skills and experience, covering in-demand technologies.
You will graduate as a competent network practitioner with a range of up-to-date skills and experience, covering in-demand technologies.
The course will provide you with a high level of networking and transferable skills so you are ready for a number of career paths and are highly employable and attractive to local, regional and national companies.
The course will be taught using a variety of methods including lectures, interactive lectorials, lab-based practicals, classroom-based seminars and group problem solving sessions, case studies, guest expert lectures, one-to-one and group supervision and online learning.
The majority of assessments will be through practical coursework but you can also expect some written assessments and an occasional time-constrained assessment.
Please contact Botswana Accountancy College for information on facilities:
Botswana Accountancy College +267 3953062
Botswana Accountancy College Gaborone Plot 50661 Fairgrounds International Office Park Gaborone P/ bag 000319 Gaborone Botswana
Graduates in this subject area are working as Network Engineers, Network Analyst, Technical Support Engineer, and managing cloud systems at numerous institutions.
There are a massive range of organisations employing network engineers and security practitioners.
Teaching, learning and assessment on this course focuses on development of practical skills needed by relevant employers.
The course aims to produce highly motivated, competent individuals who have the awareness, understanding and the necessary flexibility to effectively utilise and continually re-develop their own knowledge and skills of network technologies, protocols and services.
The networking and transferable skills you will learn will set you up for a range of career opportunities, locally, regionally and nationally.
By increasing your theoretical knowledge and focus on current research in networking, you will be well prepared for rapidly changing network environments and for posts in large organisations, including service providers.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/undergraduate-computer-systems-engineering-sc:
Botswana Accountancy College, Gaberone
Gusto University Wisara Road Campus 2 (Full Time)
Benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of computing in your own country.
‘Top-up’ your existing knowledge and skills to the level of an honours degree.
Undertake a major hands-on project that involves developing a working solution to a particular problem.
The content of the course mirrors the Sunderland-based equivalent course Computer Systems Engineering (Top-Up) .
Our courses delivered at study centres share the same ethos, material and approach as those delivered at Sunderland itself.
Teaching methods include lectures, tutorials, seminars and group work.
Botswana Accountancy College +267 2410 558
Botswana Accountancy College Francistown Barclays Plaza, Level 8 Suite 81 and 83 Blue Jacket Street P/ bag 137 Francistown Botswana
International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) +977 1 4485278 / +977 1 4485279 info@ismt.edu.np Biratnagar Campus Biratnagar-5 Kanchanbari Nepal
International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) +977-71-437238 / 9801183808 butwal@ismt.edu.np
Butwal Campus Janakinagar, Butwal, Nepal
International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) +977 056 525146 chitwan@ismt.edu.np
Chitwan Campus Bharatpur- 12 300 meters east from Dhanagada Temple Near the Naurangi Chowk Chitwan Nepal
International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) +977 061 430826 pokhara@ismt.edu.np
Pokhara Campus Pokhara Lekhnath -15 Aanapurna Marg Nepal
At the end of the course, you can apply for further study on a Masters course in Sunderland or go on to study other courses, such as MSc Information Technology Management via Study Centres.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/mobile-web-technologies-top-up-sc:
Focus on creative and multimedia computing centred around web-based and mobile app design and development.
Become a competent programmer or developer of software and information systems.
Be well-prepared for the challenges of working in this rapidly evolving and competitive industry.
Learn how to design, build and deploy apps for Android and iOS devices on this new top-up course.
The course is informed by Human Computer Interaction (HCI) and User Experience Design (UXD).
HCI and UXD research has impact wherever digital technologies are used at a personal level including education, domestic activity, exercise, and promoting secure on-line behaviours in users.
You'll learn about and use Xcode, Swift, Android Studio, Cisco OS, Wireshark and Asterisk to build an interactive and dynamic mobile app.
This course is delivered at our study centre in Botswana.
Please contact the study centre directly for more information about start dates and fees.
We employ a blended teaching and learning approach and work to consistently to expose you to real-world industrial activity while developing essential practical skills.
You will learn through a mix of lectures, interactive lectorials, lab-based practicals, classroom-based seminars, group problem-solving sessions, case studies, guest expert lectures, one-to-one and group supervision and online learning.
Most of the assessments are made up of practical coursework with some written assessments and occasional written examinations or time-constrained assessments.
Undertake advanced study in order to define, plan and a develop a proposal for a research investigation and scope, plan, develop and produce an academic research ‘paper’.
Work with a client to develop a practical solution to a business problem, using up-to-date practitioner methods across the project life cycle.
Learn how to build a highly interactive and dynamic native mobile application.
This will include understanding the systems involved, from device hardware and software on which information is stored, including the platform database technologies used to structure and access data, to the media rich interface features needed to create good user experiences which leverage the native mobile platform.
Gain experience in the specifics of development for the iPhone, iPad and iWatch.
Experience the many applications and facets that are used to create a fully converged up to date telecommunications network capable of carrying both voice and data.
It combines mobile phone technologies with that of the wireless LAN environment.
The use of both softphones and power over ethernet phones and switches will give you the informed information required to use in an industrial background.
Study the principles and practices that ensure users gain the most appropriate experience when interacting with computer-based software and hardware systems.
Focus on the three core principles of interaction design: understanding users and their contexts which involve learning techniques to profile users and analyse their tasks; design principles such as layout and dialogue design and user-centred evaluation methods such as usability testing and expert inspection.
Please contact the study centre directly for more information about their facilities.
This course would set you up for a career as a programmer and/or developer with appropriate knowledge and skills in software information systems analysis and programming/development.
Transferable skills
This course will not only give you high level computing skills, but also a number of transferable skills, preparing you for a wide range of career paths.
You will graduate highly employable and attractive to local, regional and national companies.
Our graduates are working as Software Developers/Engineers and Web/Mobile Developers at SAGE, Accenture and IBM.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/undergraduate-applied-business-computing-sc:
Top-up your existing qualification to a full honours degree while you live in your own country.
Develop academic and research skills by collecting and analysing data and developing evidence-based action plans.
Undertake a major business project and graduate with industry-relevant IT skills.
This course allows you to benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of computing while you live in your own country.
By completing the course you will be adding value to your employability and attractiveness as a professional.
At the end of the course, you can apply for further study on MSc Information Technology Management via Study Centres .
Page last updated:  15 May 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/information-communication-technology-top-up-sc:
Gain wide experience in IT service centre management, business processes, forensic auditing, cybersecurity and more.
Increase your theoretical knowledge and focus on current research in ICT.
Gain the skills needed to work in this rapidly evolving and competitive industry.
This course will equip you with the knowledge and abilities to embark on a career in a networking environment working in large enterprises and for service providers.
You will have the awareness, understanding and the necessary flexibility to effectively utilise and continually re-develop your own knowledge and skills.
You will gain in-depth understanding and develop a range of up-to-date skills in the areas of IT service management, cybersecurity, business intelligence and strategy and more, opening up a wide range of employment opportunities.
Student experience is at the core of our thinking in programme conception, design and pedagogical approach.
As learners needs and learning styles differ, we employ a blended teaching and learning approach and work consistently to expose you to real-world industrial activity and develop essential practical skills.
You will therefore learn in different ways including lectures, interactive lectorials, lab-based practicals, classroom-based seminars and group problem-solving sessions, case studies, guest expert lectures, one-to-one and group supervision and online learning.
Most of the assessments are practical coursework but students can also expect some written assessments and an occasional time constrained assessment.
Learn how to maximize business value for an organisation through its use of IT strategies.
Implement and manage IT service delivery.
Undertake advanced study in order to define, plan and develop a proposal for a research investigation and scope, plan, develop and produce an academic research ‘paper’.
Learn how big data can be applied for business intelligence.
Identify, analyse and evaluate the current technical developments in cybersecurity and digital forensics and appreciate the impact of these.
Gain a critical understanding of the key factors that underpin the development and implementation of financial models.
Learn how to apply concepts to practical situations in order to solve business problems.
This course will prepare you for rapidly changing work environments and for posts in large organisations, including service providers.
You will gain the knowledge and abilities to embark on a career as a confident IT manager who has wide experience not only in hardware and in software development but also in business processes, decision making, ethics and professionalism, systems admin, forensic auditing and service management.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/computer-science-sc:
DEI College - English Taught
British University College
Course starts: 10 November 2025 Apply now
DEI College - Greek Taught
Study the fundamentals of computer science and systems administration.
Design and develop for web, multimedia and mobile platforms.
Challenge your creativity and technical skills with a series of challenging, hands-on practical projects.
Teaching methods include lectures, tutorials, seminars and laboratory sessions, group activities, and discussions.
You'll be encouraged to develop independent study skills as well as work with other students on group projects.
Please contact the study centre directly for more information on their specific requirements and equivalent qualifications from outside the UK.
Our UK graduates have gone on to become web programmers, IT managers, information analysts and software developers with companies such as Sage, British Airways and the NHS.
Page last updated:  15 April 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/postgraduate-cybersecurity-sc:
This newly developed Cybersecurity course will provide you with the technical and practical skills to make a difference to society by providing safe and secure digital environments, allowing the public, business and industry, and the economy to function safely.
You will contribute to the wellbeing of society by raising awareness of threats and attacks and designing systems, structures and networks to identify attacks and recover from them to allow business continuity.
The course has been designed to cover a wide range of relevant, interesting and exciting topics in the cybersecurity field.
You will study industry-specific topics and specialise in areas such as network security, cybersecurity in organisations, big data security, breach and incident response, and user experience design.
Assessment methods include individual written research papers, practical assignments including the creation of cybersecurity solutions (design, implementation, evaluation and maintenance), analysis of cybersecurity problems, threats and challenges, application of cybersecurity tools and techniques, creation of policies and procedures for cybersecurity, formal paper reviews, presentations and the Masters project.
Cover a range of governance and management topics which will enable you to determine, establish and maintain appropriate governance, delivery and creation of cybersecurity solutions for information, systems and network security.
Develop techniques and use tools that will enable you to undertake critical analysis of the challenges and opportunities of using cybersecurity to mitigate and manage risk to data and enable business continuity in the case of data breaches.
Study applied cryptography, secure programming and defensive programming.
Gain the knowledge and skills to undertake first-response in cyber breach and associated incidents.
Develop a practical deliverable and investigate an area of academic research through the support of a sponsor for example: an IT strategy; an investigative study; a technically challenging artefact (e.g.
Underpin the project with a literature review that is a conceptual framework of your study - a systematic synthesis of concepts, assumptions, expectations, beliefs, and theories that supports and informs your research.
Please contact DEI College directly for information on fees and finance.
The MSc in Cybersecurity seeks to develop graduates who will become proficient cybersecurity professionals with the technical knowledge base and skills set to master the complex problems and complex requirements in cybersecurity.
On completing this course you will be equipped with the technical and practical skills to make a difference to society by providing safe and secure digital environments, allowing the public, business and industry, and the economy to function safely.
We will prepare you for a range of cybersecurity jobs, including roles such as:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/art-design/undergraduate-graphic-design-top-up-sc:
Hong Kong College of Technology
Course starts: 29 September 2025 Apply now
Take a step towards becoming a sought-after graphic designer.
Gain the benefits of an education from our University without having to move.
Develop a rigorous approach to different fields of design.
The content of the course mirrors the Sunderland-based equivalent course Graphic Design and takes you another step towards becoming a sought-after graphic designer who combines technical expertise with imaginative flair.
The graphic design industry offers high rewards for talented people.
Through a range of stimulating modules and projects, you will develop a rigorous approach to different fields of design, including corporate identity, web design, packaging, and environmental graphics.
Teaching methods include, lectures, seminars and group work.
We encourage you to develop independent study and creative design skills.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, there are also on-going feedback to consolidate your learning.
Research and write about a design area that is relevant to your intended career path.
Please contact Hong Kong College of Technology for information on facilities:
Hong Kong College of Technology 14 Princess Margaret Road Ho Man Tin Kowloon Hong Kong
Please contact the study centres directly for information on their facilities.
Contact the study centre for information on fees and finance.
Our graduates have gone on to work in the creative industries of publishing, design consultancies and advertising design.
Some graduates prefer self-employment.
Other options include postgraduate study and teaching.
Throughout the course, and particularly on modules such as ‘Studio Practice’, you will receive valuable advice on a variety of work-related topics.
These range from costing, cash flow and business plans to going freelance, self-promotion and copyright issues.
You will develop a Professional Engagement Document.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-automotive-engineering-sc:
ICBT Colombo
Stage 3 (Top up)
Course starts: 26 January 2026 Apply now
ICBT Kandy
Develop ideas on how to change the future of motor vehicles, in line with the current environmental challenges the industry faces in today's commercial climate.
You will study the essential mathematics and engineering science that underpins automotive engineering with an emphasis on the mechanical aspects.
Topics that are peculiar to their discipline include the thermodynamics of engines, automotive electrical technology, vehicle drive train and chassis systems.
This course will equip you with the skills and knowledge to launch a career in the automotive industry or in its supply chain industries.
Gain a fundamental understanding of concepts related to electronic and electrical engineering.
Grow your analytical skills to be able to solve electronic and electrical circuits.
Enhance your knowledge of machines and transformers.
Understand the fundamental concepts, laws, and analytical methods for the solution of engineering mechanics problems.
Use mechanical technology and evaluate the results of practical mechanics experiments.
Utilise different mathematical techniques such as differentiation, integration, solution of simultaneous equations, ordinary differential equations (ODEs), trigonometry, and vectors.
Develop knowledge of the basic principle requirements of the relevant ISO drawing standards as applied to mechanical drafting.
Learn about structured design methodologies including computer aided design (CAD), simple machine elements, and dimensional tolerancing.
Enhance your knowledge of basic workshop practices and safety in the workshop and laboratory.
Gain the ability to interpret and produce engineering drawing that conforms to the relevant British Standards using a CAD programme.
Develop the mathematical and analytical skills needed to solve engineering problems.
Study the foundations of topics such as algebra, trigonometry, Calculus, matrices and differential equations.
Gain transferable skills in problem-solving.
Enhance your knowledge of fundamental principles, including the safety aspects and requirements, relating to thermodynamics and electrical systems.
Gain the ability to apply the laws of thermodynamics to a range of systems and learn how to use the ideal gas laws and steam tables when analysing energy transfers in gases and vapours.
Apply the modified Bernoulli’s equation to incompressible one-dimensional fluid flow.
Analyse the operation of simple electrical circuits and systems.
Develop critical knowledge of the technical attributes of key vehicle components and systems, as well as the forces acting on a vehicle during typical phases of operation.
Gain the ability to analyse and discuss the functional characteristics of various mechanical and electrical vehicle systems, while critically evaluating the technical advantages and disadvantages.
Learn how to calculate the forces acting on a vehicle during typical phases of operation.
Demonstrate your understanding of vehicle and component systems through design.
Develop a critical understanding of finite element analysis and its integration to the design engineering process.
Use industry standard and commercially available software to predict the performance and behaviour of a component or system due to external influences.
Analyse mathematical models of the behaviour of a component or system due to external influences.
Enhance your knowledge of the mechanical engineering discipline of applied mechanics.
Apply the appropriate mathematical techniques for modelling and analysing engineering problems.
Explore a range of specialist areas including machine dynamics and strength of materials.
Expand your knowledge of the mechanical engineering disciplines of thermodynamics and fluid mechanics.
Gain fundamental knowledge by exploring topics such as thermodynamics, air standard cycles, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer.
Engage in essential mathematical techniques including differentiation and integration, solution of simultaneous equations, and ordinary differential equations.
Explore the creation of solid models of simple components using 3D solid modelling software.
Gain an introduction to the three interlinked methodologies of design for manufacture, design for assembly, and process selection.
Undertake a redesign project which must be conducted conscious of both the economic challenges and environmental responsibility which the global manufacturing sector is facing.
Use case studies to gain insight and understanding into the key aspects of the design for manufacture concept.
Delve into the operation and application of a range of both Instrumentation and Automation Systems.
Enhance your understanding of the properties of measurement systems and sensors and evaluate their application in selecting an appropriate approach for a given application.
Analyse signal conditioning and data capture systems using components such as operational amplifiers, analogue to digital converters and microcontrollers.
Gain an understanding of the practical application of the design process to a real automotive problem.
Learn about the materials requirements in the wider engineering context and the interdependency of design, manufacture, economics, and environmental considerations.
Explore the essential characteristic properties of groups and sub-groups of materials and how they relate to specific areas of applications.
Gain the essential knowledge and techniques in order to synthesise solutions to engineering problems.
Make critical comparisons of various methods of materials selection and property evaluation.
Consider aspects of dynamic performance such as vehicle ride, handling, and stability.
Gain an overview of developments in emission control and consider conventional internal combustion engine management systems versus the emerging electric and hybrid technologies.
Acquire the ability to model vehicle system components using manual and computer-based techniques, as well as the ability to design, construct, critically analyse, and test vehicle control systems.
Please contact International College of Business and Technology for information on facilities:
ICBT Mount Campus - Mount Lavinia 31 and 33 Hotel Road Mount Lavinia Sri Lanka
ICBT City Campus 317 A Galle Road Colombo 04 Sri Lanka
This course is available at partner universities worldwide.
Please contact the relevant partner for information on fees and finance.
Salaries in engineering can be very attractive and our course is directly relevant to the needs of employers.
As an Automotive engineer your primary sector would be Automotive engineering, as well as supply chain industries.
Your choice of role could be Design Engineer, Manufacturing or Production Engineer and even Project Management.
The quality of your degree would also enable you to utilise your qualification outside of the automotive industry.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-mechanical-engineering-sc:
Stage 3
Course starts: 22 September 2025 Apply now
SBCS Trinidad (Full Time) Champs Fleur
This course allows you to benefit from Sunderland's teaching of engineering while living in your home country.
The content of the course mirrors the Sunderland-based equivalent course, BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering .
Our courses that are delivered at study centres share the same ethos, material and approach as those delivered at Sunderland itself.
Learn to use digital technologies to support and enhance your work as an engineer.
Use advanced engineering software to perform engineering calculations and analysis and learn to design, simulate, and prototype systems as part of a digital workflow.
Develop smart electronic systems, comprising both hardware and software, and simple computer programs.
Expand your knowledge of all engineering materials (metals, polymers, ceramics and composites), their properties and processing.
Build on your understanding of manufacturing processes and systems alongside economic, ethical, and environmental considerations.
Apply computer-aided materials selection and manufacturing process selection techniques to engineering components.
Get an introduction to the world of design engineering.
Learn to use key design and engineering software such as CAD (Computer-Aided Design).
Develop the ability to produce an engineering drawing, alongside workshop and manufacturing skills.
Work in groups across engineering disciplines to solve a real-world engineering problem.
Apply your specialist skills and knowledge to perform tasks to support your project group.
Progress your project through the various stages including; identifying the problem, project planning, design and evaluation.
This course is available at partner universities around the world.
As a Mechanical Engineer the industries which may interest you would include automotive, automation, aerospace, power generation, communication or defence industries.
You could play a major role in design, management or manufacturing in any of the above industries.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-project-management-study-centre:
Botswana Accountancy College
MDIS Singapore
Part time
Base yourself at one of our quality-assured partners around the world.
Join one of the fastest growing professions worldwide.
Whatever your degree topic you can join this course and so take your first step to becoming a project management professional and joining one of the world’s fastest growing professions.
This course is designed to teach people from any discipline or degree background, unlike other project management courses, whether you are from a business, arts or technical background this course is for you.
It covers a comprehensive range of project management topics, utilising lectures, tutorials and practical sessions.
The modules ensure you develop a well-rounded set of project and general management skills, including Project Management Basics, Project Delivery Methods including agile, International Project Management, Managing People and Project Leadership, Understanding Organisations, Project Funding and Tendering, Project Risk Management and Quality Management.
You will learn through a combination of lectures, seminars, tutorials, project work and group work.
On all courses you are encouraged to develop as an independent learner.
In this module, you will develop the building blocks of successful project management.
Topics include project selection, feasibility, whole life costing and sustainability; the impact of risk, quality and people; effective monitoring and control to ensure successful delivery; and the use of project management software.
You will undertake an extensive case study/business game to develop your skills in team working and decision making.
Please contact Mericler, Turkey for more information about their facilities and location:
Mericler, Turkey Kocatepe Mah, Lamartin Cad.
No.
5 Offis LamartimeBinasi, Kat 5.
34437 Taksim – Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey
This course is available at our partner centres.
Use the tabs to the left to contact them directly.
Please check the course fees with the relevant Study Centre partner.
Postgraduates are highly employable and, on average, earn more than individuals whose highest qualification is an undergraduate degree (Department for Business Innovation and Skills).
Project managers have skills that are relevant to most industries and is one of the fastest growing professions worldwide.
Project managers have skills that are relevant to most industries.
The sectors where project managers are most commonly employed include construction, engineering, digital media, IT and telecoms.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgraduate-engineering-management-sc-pt:
Operate effectively in a wide range of engineering management roles and successfully deliver multi-million pound engineering projects.
Develop the ‘soft’ skills of working with others and leading projects, including negotiation, collaboration and managing change.
This course will broaden the knowledge and experience of graduate and practicing engineers in engineering, technology and management.
The focus of the programme is on equipping you to manage the full potential of technological advances, within the context of today's engineering and manufacturing environment.
Supportive tutors will help you develop the ‘soft’ skills of working with others and leading projects.
Examples include negotiation and collaboration, effective communication, handling conflict and politics and managing change.
Teaching is provided by a combination of lectures, seminars and tutorials, with the emphasis being on student-centred learning.
Assessment methods include individual and group assignments, examinations, presentations and a viva.
In this module you will cover project definition and feasibility, identifying stakeholders and their requirements, measures of success and failure, financial evaluation and management.
The topics in this module include organisational structures, supply chain management and value chain analysis.
You will study risk analysis including: risk definition, certainty and uncertainty, risk management methodology, and risk identification and quantification.
You will also cover: managing change; conflict and politics; power, decision-making, negotiation and collaboration in project teams; communication in project management including briefings and meetings; and the role of the project manager as co-ordinator and facilitator.
You will assess maintenance strategies from ‘run to failure’ in the 1950s to the development of modern maintenance practices such as TPM, RCM and CBM in the 1980s and beyond.
You will also cover: condition monitoring and predictive maintenance technologies including vibration analysis, oil analysis, thermography and acoustic emission; sensor signal analysis using the latest software and intelligent systems techniques; and computerised maintenance management systems.
You will undertake a real-world project with the support of a sponsor.
Contact the Study Centre directly using the tabs on the left for information on their facilities and location.
Potential management roles include Project Manager, Design Engineer, Manufacturing Engineer, Mechanical Engineer, Electrical Engineer, Product Engineer and Maintenance Engineer.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/media/undergraduate-media-culture-comms-sc:
Stage 2
MDIS Malaysia
MDIS - Singapore
Explore the diverse patterns of human communication within the mass media.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of media power, media use, and its increasing significance in contemporary culture and society.
Understand the many techniques of communication along with other valuable skills.
This mainly theoretical course covers a diverse range of topics that include cultural theory and popular culture; language, gender and power; the history of the mass media; popular TV genres; cultural representation of women; culture and consumption; and American, British, European, and Asian cinema.
You may choose to complement this theoretical base with practical or studio-based modules, such as journalism, photography, language studies, video production, radio production, and new media production.
You'll gain a good grounding in the many techniques of communication along with other valuable skills, such as presentation/oral skills, critical analysis, written, and research skills.
This knowledge and skill will prepare you for a variety of careers, including journalism, PR, communication, and within media production.
Other graduates have pursued postgraduate study, teaching (PGCEs), and working in the public sector.
Focus on factual media output including journalism, documentary, current affairs, and reality TV in this critical and analytical module.
Examine different theoretical approaches and traditions involved in the study of popular culture and the analysis of texts and practices of popular culture.
Learn about the most influential approaches to the study of popular culture including Marxism(s), psychoanalysis, postmodernism, and feminism, using relevant examples such as popular music, advertising, film, television, and consumption (shopping, football and fan culture).
Build on the theoretical and practical foundation you developed in your first year to learn the key elements in the process of creating a PR strategy for a real-world client or employing organisation.
Engage with a critical review of PR planning models and gain an understanding of the importance of research and the study of a variety of case studies.
Learn about the importance of ethical codes that aim to guide practitioners in the minefield of modern-day PR practice.
Develop procedures, techniques relevant to dramatic production, and critical understanding of dramatic techniques and practices within the context of film and media production.
Establish the relationship between theory and practice by exploring the dramatic form through fictional production.
Produce a variety of dramatic styles and content.
Develop the skills necessary for a career in the media industries including legal skills, networking, and finding work experience.
Explore a range of new skills and opportunities through the production of audio and video content.
Engage in key contemporary issues by researching and writing a short essay.
Consider questions of representation, power, and identity in advertising and television drama.
Explore social experiences as they relate to practices of media, modernity, and mobilities.
Produce a major piece of media work in the genre of your choice for an appropriate platform, with the concept agreed by a panel of assessors.
You'll then develop and produce this, working in teams or individually to incorporate one or more of the following: television, film, radio, audio, digital media, or project-based research.
Develop your own research project based on interest of a cultural text, practice or body of theoretical work.
Undertake self-directed research, develop, and produce a piece of independent written work.
Examine the ethical role of journalism in society, considering key concepts such as freedom of the press, public interest, taste, and decency.
Explore topics such as President Trump's battle with the media and the depiction of violence.
Learn about the economic value of corporate reputation and goodwill along with the implications for corporate responsibility and community relations.
Continue to develop your practical skills in a wide range of PR techniques, including speechwriting and acting as a spokesperson.
Gain an introduction to key concepts in media and cultural studies, consisting of three units: language studies, media studies, and cultural studies.
Trace the evolution of the mass media from the advent of print journalism in the 16th Century, through the establishment of the press, radio and television industries to the multi-platform digital and online technology of today.
Trace the evolution of digital media and its associated cultural phenomena by charting the emergence of the personal computer and the nascent internet as crucial forces in shaping contemporary communication practices.
Investigate key debates and contribute to analyses of emergent behaviours and practices that take place within and across digital media and social media environments.
Explore the historical development in the nineteenth century of modern urban popular culture, including the development of the culture industries of stage melodrama, Christmas, music hall, the seaside holiday, pastimes and the selling of sensationist crime.
Examine the transition from rural to urban culture and the institutionalisation of the distinction between elite and popular culture and the development of popular literature and genres.
Engage with a number of relevant case studies, both in class and as part of organised field trips to appropriate venues and locations.
Gain an introduction to the theory and practice of public relations, enabling you to position PR within a business context.
Trace the emergence and development of PR through analysis of case studies and theoretical models.
Develop key skills in planning, strategy, team working, news release writing and communication skills across a range of media.
This module broadens understandings of the role of the PR practitioner and further develops the range of practical skills needed to plan and produce a basic PR campaign.
You'll learn professional practices and the creative skills required to produce a PR campaign and implement a range of publicity strategies including the effective use of online technologies.
Learn role of the journalist and the range of practical skills needed to produce news, magazine and sports content, including research, newsgathering, interviewing, copy presentation and writing style.
Gain an introduction to the procedures and techniques of video production.
Learn the technical practices and creative skills required to produce a video, then originate, develop, script, shoot, and edit a 3-minute long production.
Learn the concepts and techniques employed in writing for television.
Develop an idea through to script stage suitable for TV such as a single drama, soap opera, sitcom, or children's drama.
You'll cover television genres, narrative structure, plot lines, character development, and the writing of dialogue specifically for television.
Enhance your critical awareness in relation to your own work and that of others.
Availability of optional modules is subject to students having met any prerequisites.
Consider selected studies and developments in research into the significance of media in people's everyday lives.
Focus on published academic research in which reflections have been offered on the uses of a range of media.
Prepare for more sustained independent study in extended future projects such as dissertations.
Build on existing study skills while introducing new research methods with a view to building your confidence and preparing you to plan and carry out research projects.
In this module, you'll learn about the complementary and competing roles of paid, earned, social, and owned media, including advertising, sales promotion, direct marketing, and public relations.
You'll explore how these can be successfully integrated to achieve specific objectives in marketing communications.
You'll gain knowledge of each discipline, then use case studies to provide practical solutions to a range of specific communications problems.
Develop feature writing skills by tackling long form journalism, including articles that look at the issues behind the news and profiles that provide real insight into the lives of their subjects.
Refresh and refine your newswriting and design skills, building on the foundations from year 1 by experimenting with a wider range of journalistic styles appropriate for a number of platforms.
You'll further your skills in using design software and prepare for the NCTJ production exam.
Research and write a 10,000-word dissertation on a topic that interests you.
Work with a supervisor with whom you'll meet regularly for feedback on ideas and drafts.
This module builds on the principles and practices of public relations developed at earlier levels and applies them to a specialist area, non-commercial public relations.
You'll learn about the role of PR in a wide range of non-commercial organisations from central government to Greenpeace, from the local council to Help the Aged, and from health trusts to trade unions.
You'll study the different priorities and principles that may apply in non-commercial organisations and how they affect their PR operations.
You'll examine the process of influencing decisions taken in the public arena and how to design a structured campaign to persuade a public body to make or change a policy.
Work on a portfolio of articles for Northern Lights.
Polish your reviewing, previewing, and interviewing skills, writing about music, film, theatre, visual arts, and games.
Study an experimental storytelling module which uses emerging digital techniques to create pieces of news journalism.
Cover interactive storytelling, viral content, and cutting-edge multimedia tools such as virtual reality and artificial intelligence.
Further specialise in the documentary genre and build upon production management skills and understanding gained in year 2.
Work in small groups to produce a 10-minute documentary, taking the production roles of either director, producer, sound, editor, camera, or lighting.
Pitch your documentary idea along with a pre-production file to a commissioning panel.
Understand how many films and television programmes that we see today are adaptations, whether that be from true stories, novels, plays, games, or short stories.
Write a 30-minute script adaptation for film or TV.
Please contact the International Advertising, Communication and Technology (IACT) College or the Management Development Institute of Singapore (MDIS) for information on facilities.
Your knowledge and transferable skills will also be relevant to roles in many businesses and the public sector.
Examples of possible careers for Media, Culture and Communication graduates include:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgrad-mechanical-engineering-study-centre:
Cover a range of topics at the cutting edge of mechanical engineering using the latest digital tools.
Apply the latest technologies to real and current engineering problems.
This course will cover a range of topics at the cutting edge of the discipline using the latest digital tools.
You'll study core aspects of Mechanical Engineering along with their application in design and manufacturing.
The project module will also develop your research skills and you'll learn how to apply the latest technologies to real and current engineering problems.
Project work will be a strong focus of the course and you'll learn interactively by applying the skills you develop using our recently upgraded lab facilities.
Contact the Study Centre directly for information on fees and start dates.
In providing a bridge from your previous science-based degree to this specialist masters, we recognise the importance of extending your hands-on technical experience.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, tutorials, project work and practical laboratory sessions.
Assessment methods may include individual written reports and research papers, exams and practical assignments.
Gain practical experience of the aspects of engineering practice that are involved in research and development projects.
Work through a given research study to address a research question relevant to your course.
Learn more about the expectations of master’s level work and support in developing the appropriate research and communication skills.
Focus on the modelling, simulation, and control of dynamic engineering systems which can be applied in a range of applications such as Industrial Robotics and Process Control systems.
Cover the use of formal mathematical models and the application of simulation software to investigate a range of theoretical and practical dynamic control topics.
Build on your existing knowledge of computer aided design (CAD) and design methodologies to provide an extended insight into a range of digital tools that can be applied in a modern digital design workflow.
Explore how the following digital engineering applications can be integrated to create a workflow for a particular design process: Reverse Engineering, CAD, FEA, Digital Prototyping, CAM.
Study the latest research into the production, characterisation and application of advanced materials.
Investigate the latest technology that can be deployed to improve the effectiveness of manufacturing facilities including the use of Smart Instrumentation, Industry 4.0 and Internet of Things (IoT) technologies and Robotics and Automation technologies.
Learn about the issues facing modern engineering operations to include operations management and improvement, lean manufacturing techniques, supply chain management and development, maintenance strategy and development and condition monitoring and predictive maintenance.
This course is available at partner universities around the world.
This course equips you for a wide range of engineering roles throughout the engineering and manufacturing sector.
These projects can be sponsored by external clients and we encourage and support you to find your own client and sponsor.
Potential engineering roles include project manager, design engineer, manufacturing engineer, mechanical engineer, electrical engineer, electronic engineer, product engineer and maintenance engineer.
Other graduates conduct research in major automotive manufacturers such as Ford, Vauxhall and Nissan.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgrad-manufacturing-engineering-study-centre:
Work towards a rewarding and well-paid career as an Engineer.
Revolutionise the way we live and become highly skilled in research, design, technology, processes and equipment.
Develop the strong managerial, operational and leaderships skills necessary to become an expert.
Manufacturing Engineers are creative innovators that revolutionise the way we live and are highly skilled in research, design, technology, processes and equipment.
This course is designed for graduates who would like to develop a rewarding and well-paid career in engineering.
Industry-relevant modules such as Design for Manufacturing and Manufacturing Automation mean you’ll be well-prepared for employment in the sector.
In providing a bridge from your previous science-based degree to this specialist Masters, we recognise the importance of extending your hands-on technical experience.
Assessment methods may include individual written reports and research papers, exams, practical assignments and the Masters project.
Cover the engineering principles related to manufacturing engineering including the use and control of electrical power, the fundamental principles of mechanics, an overview of manufacturing processes, sensing and instrumentation systems, an introduction to automated manufacturing systems and the theory and principles involved in using and selecting materials.
Explore the processes involved in ensuring that the design of a product is aligned with the process that will be used to manufacture it using the principles of the Design for Manufacturing methodology.
Learn how to create automated systems that can operate collaboratively using technologies such as PLCs, HMIs and SCADA.
Examine the issues relating to the increasing levels of connectivity for such devices such as cybersecurity and integrity.
Study the latest research into the production, characterisation and application of advanced materials.
Engineers are in high demand with 186,000 people with engineering skills needed per year in the run up to 2024 (Prospects Engineering and Manufacturing guide 2017).
Manufacturing Engineering graduates develop expertise in planning and designing, as well as the modification and optimisation of manufacturing processes.
The essential principles of manufacturing engineering apply to all industries and equips you for a wide range of engineering roles throughout the engineering and manufacturing sector.
On completing this course, you will be equipped as a skilled professional with essential up-to-date knowledge in manufacturing engineering.
Companies employing engineers include:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/postgrad-electronic-engineering-study-centre:
Gain practical, technical skills and knowledge.
Access industrial standard software to help prepare you for a future career in a digital context.
Revolutionise the way we live.
This course will cover a range of topics at the cutting-edge of the discipline using the latest digital tools.
Topics will cover core aspects of Electronic Engineering along with their application in design and manufacturing.
The project will also develop research skills and you will learn to apply these to real and current engineering problems.
Project work will be a strong focus of the course and you will learn interactively by applying the skills you develop in our recently upgraded laboratory facilities.
Examine the components, systems and processes that can be used to design and implement modern electronic systems to include microcontrollers, SoC, FPGAs and DSPs.
Explore contemporary approaches such as Model-Based Design, In-Circuit Simulation and ‘X’ in the loop.
Examine the issues relating to the increasing levels of connectivity for such devices including cybersecurity and integrity.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for companies such as McLaren Automotive, General Motors, Jaguar, Perkins Engines, GSK, Northumbrian Water, Hitachi and Parametrics Technology.
Other graduates conduct research with major automotive manufacturers such as Ford, Vauxhall and Nissan.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/undergraduate-electronic-electrical-engineering-sc:
Ho Chi Minh University of Technology and Education
Develop expert level skills in electronic and electrical engineering as well as engineering management.
Specialise in digital and analogue electronics, industrial control systems design and electrical power systems and machines.
This course allows you to benefit from Sunderland’s teaching of engineering while you live in your own country.
The content of the course mirrors the Sunderland-based equivalent course, BEng (Hons) Electronic and Electrical Engineering .
This course is for people looking for skills and knowledge in electronic and electrical engineering as well as in management.
It provides particular emphasis to the fields of digital and analogue electronics, industrial control systems design and electrical power systems and machines.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, group work and e-learning.
Assessment methods include exams, multiple-choice tests, laboratory experiments and projects.
Examine the operation and application of a range of both microprocessors and PLCs.
Investigate the internal architecture, operation and programming techniques of microprocessors and microcontrollers and their role in data capture applications.
Apply your skills with design activities and use a problem-based learning approach.
Enhance your understanding of the operation of a wide variety of analogue and digital electronics.
Design electronic circuits and analyse the imperfections and errors in typical circuits.
Develop transferrable skills relevant to employment in the engineering sector.
Advance your understanding of the principles of operation and performance of measurement systems.
Delve into signal conditioning requirements and their design.
Develop models of ‘complex’ systems by using system diagrams for the connection and manipulation of simple sub-systems.
Expand your knowledge of the continuous and discrete time mathematics for the analysis of signals and systems.
Undertake engineering analysis and use an appropriate mathematical approach.
Develop and analyse mathematical models of the behaviour of a component or system due to external influences.
This programme gives you a wide and varied choice of career.
As an Electrical Engineer the main areas of employment would be electrical supply and distribution, power systems and electrical machinery.
Instrumentation and control is a strong requirement within the oil and gas industry, pharmaceutical and utilities.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/engineering/electronic-electrical-engineering-top-up-sc:
Complement your existing knowledge with expert level skills in electrical power, electronic systems design, manufacturing systems design and engineering management techniques.
This course is essentially the final year of Electronic and Electrical Engineering.
It includes a major project related to your selected topic of electrical engineering.
Please contact Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology and Education for more information about facilities and location.
No 1 Vo Van Ngan Street Linh Chieu Ward Thu Duc District Ho Chi Minh City
iro@hcmute.edu.vn
You will be based at Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology and Education (HCMUTE).
Please contact the study centre for information on fees.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-marketing-management-sc:
Stage 2 (Day)
Stage 2 (Evening)
Stage 3 (Evening)
Stage 3 (Day)
Full time
SBCS Trinidad (Part Time) Champs Fleur
MDIS Dushanbe
Understand how to bring customers and sales to a business.
Study for a UK degree from your own country.
Start a rewarding career in marketing.
Gain a world-class undergraduate degree from a British university without leaving your own country.
The content of this course is the same as the Sunderland campus-based course BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management .
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management focuses on the skills you need to be an effective marketing manager.
You’ll focus on marketing management, planning and strategy, marketing communications, consumer behaviour, and digital marketing.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, debates, tutorials, and computer-based learning.
You'll be encouraged to develop independent study skills.
Throughout the course, the focus is on innovative learning, by doing and reflecting.
You'll take part in problem-based learning, where you work within a small team to explore issues or decide how to manage a situation.
Your progress will be assessed with business simulations, presentations, reports, essays, tests, and time-constrained assessments.
Gain the key study skills that are critical to your academic development and success.
Develop your understanding and appreciation of the importance of transferable employability skills, as well as the importance of engaging in opportunities to develop personally at university and beyond.
Gain an introduction to the concept of marketing and identify the role it plays in our every day lives, whether that be the products and services we use, the price we pay, or how we’re communicated to.
Explore how organisations look to build relationships with their customers to ensure mutual satisfaction and value is received.
Examine how the effective deployment of human resources is essential to an organisation’s survival and growth through the cornerstones of human resource management practice, namely the key aspects of the HR cycle.
Explore key concepts of recruiting and selecting, development, motivation, performance, rewards, and retention.
Focus is placed on the use of theoretical best practice models and how they translate in reality to the workplace.
Explore and investigate the three key areas within the field of accounting and finance including financial accounting, management accounting, and business finance.
Learn the role and importance of how financial information can be utilised by managers and external users within the decision-making process.
Create and analyse key financial statements, understand the range of account options used by internal managers, and gain knowledge of various financing techniques that can be used to ensure business success.
Gain an introduction to the concepts of managing and leading people within an organisational context.
Acquire an understanding of the role of managers and leaders in leading and managing the human aspects within the global organisational arena.
Explore the key management and leadership activities associated with managing change to impact positively on organisational performance.
Explore the key processes and practices within businesses operations and services.
Gain knowledge that will help define the nature of business operations and services by considering various aspects of quality, cost, and delivery.
Learn how business operations are interrelated to other functions in business, for example, marketing, HR, and finance.
Investigate the impact that your behaviour has upon your professional success.
Engage with and reflect upon experiences and how they inform understanding of personal qualities that underpin your effectiveness.
Use a structured environment to focus upon what it is that you want from the world of work and, just as importantly, to increase your chances of achieving it.
Develop the ability to apply the concept of excellence in an organisational context.
Gaining new knowledge will support you in appraising the EFQM Excellence Framework (European Framework for Quality Management.
Developing your ability to recognise the difference in relationships between enablers and results that support identification of underpinning theories of excellence, leading to summarising of how organisations can be assessed using the excellence framework.
Explore the various moral issues and dilemmas facing businesses in an era when people, governments, and media expect them to demonstrate responsible actions, ethical behaviour, and sustainable practices.
Review personal values and reflect on how these might apply to businesses.
Use case studies to investigate moral issues faced by firms today, examine the diversity of business environments they face, and contemplate the dilemmas they experience when doing business abroad.
Learn the key aspects of digital marketing, including search engine optimisation, website development, e-commerce, advertising online, email marketing, social media marketing, and digital analytics, and understand the role of each in effective online marketing.
Investigate how the likes of personalization, viral marketing, influencers, affiliate marketing, and gaming can be successfully integrated within a digital strategy.
Building on your understanding of organisations, their environment, and marketing theory introduced in level 4, explore the role of marketing management in organisations today.
Appraise marketing’s contribution to the creation and delivery of value to organisations’ stakeholders.
Learn how organisations of various types measure their marketing performance.
Learn how to develop an integrated marketing communication plan and campaign, from a client and agency perspective.
Analyse and be creative in a hands-on and practical module.
Discover key theoretical models and principles of marketing communications and the promotional mix including advertising, sales promotion, public relations, personal selling, direct marketing, and new media.
Consider, diagnose, and express your professional behaviours and values as an aspiring manager and leader in finance, marketing, human resources, or management.
Examine the module leader’s research which includes the ‘Developing the Reflexive Practitioner’ toolkit, a web-based guide for developing as professionals in the increasingly complex world of management.
Present your reflections as podcasts or vlogs, or as digital reflections.
Understand how strategic marketing is critical to organisations in achieving sustainable competitive advantage.
Examine key concepts and approaches in advanced strategic marketing evaluation and formulation which are vital to understanding and meeting the challenges of current and future competitive environments.
Assess the contemporary strategic marketing options available to organisations and examine how these can be applied effectively in contemporary marketing strategy and practice.
Familiarise yourself with consumers’ decision-making journeys by drawing comparisons with the traditional and digital consumers who are increasingly shopping by using omni channels.
Discuss prevalent models with particular references to communications strategies, innovation, and sociocultural customs affecting the business.
Consider the scope of digital behaviour by utilising various theoretical approaches in order to develop consumer models which befit you as the digital consumer.
Identify, examine, and evaluate the critical and emerging issues in marketing.
Undertake critical and in-depth academic literature reviews to inform debate and discussion into these key marketing themes.
Explore topics that range from classic marketing concepts to contemporary and emerging practice, to future challenges in marketing.
Be highly engaged and involved in the evaluation of selected topics and their impact on marketing practice, businesses and organisations, and different marketing contexts.
Explore the influence of branding on our purchasing behaviour.
Examine the importance of an effective brand strategy to contemporary organisations.
Explore the nature of customers’ relationships with brands to identify the key influencers upon customer brand loyalty.
Learn how to conduct research by considering a specific and substantive marketing problem, issue, or task.
Examine the scope of marketing research in terms of its practices, techniques, and their relevance in aiding decision-making and problem-solving.
Think critically by analytically and dialogically engaging with current debates and controversies.
For more information on location and facilities, please check the study centre website.
Please contact the relevant study centre for information about tuition fees and scholarships.
As a graduate from this course, you'll have excellent skills and knowledge in marketing management, planning and strategy, marketing communications, consumer behaviour, and internet marketing.
You'll be ready to step into a marketing role in a wide variety of industries, both in your own country and across the world.
Some of the companies which employ our Business graduates include Microsoft, IBM, Nike, Adidas, P&G, Lloyds Bank, Marriott Hotels, and the NHS.
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management via Study Centres - prog spec (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-hr-management-sc:
Part Time
Gain a solid business education with a focus on human resource management.
Graduate and start a rewarding career.
If you live in Malaysia or Hong Kong, this course is a way to gain a world-class undergraduate degree from a British university without leaving your country.
Human resource management is an essential part of any successful business.
This course will teach the framework of how to manage human resources, how to make informed decisions, and how to lead change in organisations.
Throughout the course, you'll focus on learning by doing and reflecting.
One technique is problem-based learning, where you’ll work within a small team to explore issues or decide how to manage a situation.
Other learning techniques include cutting-edge e-learning technologies.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, debates, tutorials, and workshops.
Your progress will be assessed by coursework, assessed case studies and business simulations, presentations, reports, essays, tests, and time-constrained assessments.
Develop the ability to analyse an organisation with particular emphasis on understanding contemporary issues in organisational change.
Learn about managing and leading the process and human resource factors associated with identifying, planning, and implementing organisational change.
Cover content shaped by challenges currently faced by organisations operating in a range of local, national, and international contexts, as well as relevant practitioner-based and academic literature.
Undertake field research in the human resource management field.
Research and conduct a mini project which addresses a past, present, or future human resource issue.
Base your project in an organisation which can be located within the UK or based overseas.
Explore contemporary issues in terms of the protected characteristics of the 2010 Equality Act.
Gain an introduction to the causes, consequences, and debates around discrimination and harassment in the workplace due to religious and faith identity, trans identity, gender identity, sexual orientation identity, invisible disabilities, and how these interact with racial, nationality, and national identity.
Learn how to deal with the diverse nature of managing and leading people in a multicultural workplace.
Present your research using a range of options including podcasts, vlogs, websites, and games.
Understand the ‘real’ world of employment relations and how it’s influenced by both the internal and external environments.
Explore the differing stakeholders, economic climate, demographics, practices, and availability of talented and skilled workers.
Achieve an insight into the complexities of how the contemporary employment relationship is managed and maintained today.
Gain a rich understanding of human resource management within an international context, for example, what HRM is, what the key differences are between domestic and international HRM, what the role of national culture is, and the industry and management of philosophy.
Learn about the fascinating impact on the organisational context to consider standardization or local practices, the driving forces that determine the adopted approach, international staffing approaches, and what control mechanisms can be used.
Compare and contrast theories and approaches for delivering and managing the human resource management function within a global context.
For more information, please contact the relevant study centre directly.
When you graduate from this course, you’ll be ready to take on a human resource management position in a wide variety of organisations.
Some of the sectors that our graduates currently work in include technology (Microsoft, IBM), consumer goods (P&G, Nike, Adidas), banking (Lloyds Bank), hospitality (Marriott Hotels, Starbucks), and government departments and agencies.
BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management via SC - prog spec (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-management-sc:
Full Time - Stage 3
Ledra College
Full Time
DPU
Course starts: 08 September 2025 Apply now
Part Time - Stage 3
UTE
Gain a UK degree without leaving your own country.
The content of this course is the same as the Sunderland campus-based course BA (Hons) Business and Management .
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, group work, and computer-based learning.
Your progress will be assessed with written coursework, projects, presentations, exams, case studies, assignments, and reports.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, you'll be assessed throughout the course to give you feedback and help you improve your work.
Explore the functions of management by investigating the systems and processes for planning, organising, controlling, and decision-making.
Find out about people management and the role played by communication and motivation.
Assess organisational structures, look into the management of innovation and change, and reflect on the impact of ethics and corporate social responsibility.
Learn about the theory and practice of entrepreneurship, innovation, creativity, and how to build business models and what skills and tools are required to take an idea from a concept plan to launch or working within an existing organisation as an intrapreneur.
Concentrate on an innovative or creative idea and wonder how to protect its intellectual property.
Focus on learning how to manage people who are entrepreneurial, innovative, and creative by looking at case studies and empirical research.
Gain a critical, research, and practitioner perspective on innovation management.
Strengthen your employability skills to bridge the gap between innovation management theory and practice.
Systematically explore cutting edge themes and business practices concerning innovation and management techniques that seek to embed innovation within a commercial organisation.
Understand the importance of decision-making by a manager around the subject of management accounting issues, ensuring that you as a future manager have the information you need to plan and control the direction of your organisation.
Explore how management accounting information can be used within a business to improve the quality of a manager’s decisions by examining the nature and purpose of a business.
Explore a variety of topics related to management accounting within the concept of decision-making by managers.
*Please note, MDIS students will take Management Accounting for Business rather than Innovation Management.
Examine the concepts and underpinning theory of strategic management within organisations.
Explore the many theoretical schools of strategic management with reference to those that address the formulation and development of strategy within the organisation.
Contrast various theoretical models and modes of thinking around strategising and develop a robust set of tools to apply to real-world management problems.
Examine ethical and practical issues facing business in modern global marketplaces.
Research, innovate, identify, design, plan, undertake, manage, and exploit an entrepreneurial and innovation opportunity.
Learn how to bring to market and co-create sustainable entrepreneurial, innovative, creative ideas and solutions which impact our world.
Develop a critical understanding of global entrepreneurship, innovation, and sustainability issues and challenges, where you can write an academic article, blog, vlog, or give a TED Talk.
Work in groups co-creating ideas and solutions via a micro-enterprise concept or venture.
Critically reflect on the entrepreneurship and innovation theories, concepts, and techniques.
Develop a critical understanding of the role and importance of strategic corporate finance within the modern-day international business organisation.
Gain a robust understanding of various corporate finance concepts and theories including market efficiency, different forms of debt and equity, investment appraisal, dividend policy, capital structure, and mergers and acquisitions.
Expand your analytical and evaluative skills through and investigation and application of how relevant corporate finance techniques can be deployed strategically by financial managers to ensure future business success.
Examine some of the challenges faced by marketers in the digital era.
Develop a critical understanding of transformations in marketing practices that are occurring in response to changes in the technological and social environments.
Drawing on extant theory and case studies to illuminate current practices, you’ll develop a critical understanding of the need for organisations to adopt and integrative approach to marketing strategy.
This course is taught in Study Centres around the world.
Contact the centre directly for more information about the location and facilities available.
Some of the sectors which employ our graduates include technology (Microsoft, IBM), consumer goods (P&G, Nike, Adidas), banking (Lloyds Bank), hospitality (Marriott Hotels, Starbucks), and government departments and agencies.
BA (Hons) Business and Management via Study Centres - programme spec (.pdf)
Page last updated:  12 September 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-business-financial-management-sc:
Gain a solid business education with a focus on finance.
Gain a world-class undergraduate degree in business and financial management from a British university without leaving your own country.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, debates, tutorials, and workshops.
Throughout the course, the focus is on innovative learning by doing and reflecting.
Immerse yourself fully in financial reporting with this module.
Develop new ideas for the key elements of international financial reporting and create financial statements.
Discuss ideas around current ethical issues, produce group accounts, and gain new knowledge of current practices within the industry.
Learn the instrumental role business finance plays within the world of today’s global business organisation.
Create an understanding and knowledge of the differing options available to businesses when considering raising finance to fund investment and growth.
Explore a range of differing theories relating to business finance which will enable you to analyse and evaluate whether these can be successfully applied within the modern day business environment.
Learn how the banking and finance industry transfers money through time, supports economic output, contributes to maintaining stable inflation rates, allows customers to manage risks, and more.
Develop skills in numerous economic and business scenarios, promoting confidence when discussing and analysing money, banking, and finance issues.
Explore the banking industry’s role within a well-functioning financial system.
Understand the important themes in corporate governance and ethics.
Discuss specific topics such as corporate sustainability reporting and assurance, integrated reporting, and responsible investment.
Adopt an international comparative perspective by focusing upon the system found in the UK and contrasting this with a range of different corporate governance systems in countries around the world.
When you graduate from this course, you’ll be ready to take on a position managing finances and accounts in a wide variety of organisations.
You may also wish to become a qualified accountant.
BA (Hons) Business and Financial Management via Study Centres - prog spec (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/pharmacy-pharmaceutical-and-cosmetic-sciences/msc-clinical-pharmacy-sc:
HKUSpace
Course starts: 02 October 2025 Apply now
Future proof your role as a pharmacist.
Learn through an innovative and flexible teaching style.
Build on current knowledge and experience and extend your professional development.
Clinical Pharmacy via Study Centres is taught at our quality-assured partners worldwide and will provide the additional postgraduate qualification you need to progress in your field.
The course focuses on advancing your clinical practice, leadership, management, education, and research skills.
This course will challenge you, through an innovative and flexible teaching style, to be the best pharmacist for you and your patients.
It will provide you with an approach to practice, building on existing knowledge and experiences to extend your personal and professional development.
The course has been developed by healthcare professionals and academics to reflect the most up-to-date and relevant areas to a pharmacist’s practice.
To succeed in this course, applicants should preferably work in a patient-facing clinical role.
Content is divided into manageable, bite-sized chunks, allowing you to focus on specific areas even within a short timeframe.
In addition to the online materials, you’ll have the opportunity to participate in a series of live online seminars (webinars).
Modules run throughout the academic year, giving you the flexibility to manage your own schedule and study at your own pace within the module timeframe.
You'll be assessed through a combination of written coursework and a work-based portfolio, which assesses learning and development through a variety of workplace tasks specifically tailored to meet the module and course outcomes.
Please contact HKU School of Continuing and Professional Education for information on facilities:
HKU Space Island East Campus 4794 Kings Road North Point Hong Kong
Online facilities include the use of VLE Canvas, reVIEW and Storyline.
Please contact the relevant study centre for information on their facilities and location.
Please contact the Study Centre directly for information on fees and finance.
We encourage you to plan your future contributions with your employer and how your career will progress.
On completing this postgraduate qualification in clinical pharmacy, you will be equipped with the advanced skills and knowledge specifically needed for progression into various senior pharmacist roles.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-banking-finance-sc:
Banking Academy Vietnam
Improve your employability.
Embark on a professional and rewarding career.
The BA (Hons) Banking and Finance (Top-Up) course is a way to gain a world-class undergraduate degree from a British university without leaving your own country.
Banking and finance are essential to any successful business and you’ll focus on financial management, financial markets, and managing projects.
These are fundamental frameworks and are essential for any financial professional.
Please contact your study centre for the duration and mode of this course.
You'll also be encouraged to develop independent study skills.
As well as assessments that count towards your degree, your progress will be evaluated by ongoing assessments for feedback and consolidating your learning.
Contact the individual study centre for more information on their facilities.
Please contact the relevant study centre directly for information on fees and finance.
Banking and financial industries provide competitive and hugely rewarding job prospects.
We directly aim to improve your employability and competence, which are relevant to the needs of employers in these sectors.
For example:
Page last updated:  06 September 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-accounting-financial-management-sc:
Part Time (Evening)
Develop fresh approaches to solving problems at work.
This course allows you to study at a study centre close to where you live or work.
Depending on the study centre, teaching methods include a mixture of lectures, seminars, and ‘surgeries’.
Your progress will be assessed by written exams, case studies, assignments, and reports, which will take place at your chosen study centre.
Learn how financial markets play a key role in a country's development and growth.
Gain a good understanding of the operation and activities of the financial markets covering money markets, capital markets, stock exchange markets, and foreign exchange markets.
Explore the operations and the efficiency of the financial markets in the advanced and emerging markets including in the UK and the Bric group of countries.
In this module you'll consider contemporary developments in business and management in the fast changing and dynamic 21st century global business environment.
You'll cover the broad-ranging international business environment: political, legal, economic and financial, socio-cultural, technological and ecological, with a strong emphasis on the phenomenon of globalization.
You'll draw on examples from real life private-sector and public-sector organisations of all sizes headquartered in developed and/or developing economies.
This course is taught at Study Centres around the world.
For more information about each centre, please use the left hand menu.
BA (Hons) Accounting and Financial Management (Top-Up) via SC - prog spec (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/undergraduate-accounting-finance-sc:
Gain the benefits of studying for a degree without leaving your home country.
Earn a well-respected qualification that'll open doors in the field of accounting and finance.
Graduate and embark on a range of excellent career prospects.
This course allows you to benefit from Sunderland’s excellence in the teaching of accounting and finance without leaving Malaysia.
The content of the course mirrors the Sunderland-based Accounting and Finance (with Professional Exemptions) equivalent course.
Delivered via study centres, this course shares the same ethos and approach as those delivered at Sunderland itself, using similar materials ensuring you meet the programme based learning outcomes.
Gain the benefits of an education from our University without having to move to another country
As part of your active learning you will work on problems and issues with the tutor and other students.
Through analysing data and drawing your own conclusions, you'll explore approaches to different business situations.
Start off your financial journey by focusing on the basic accounting concepts and conventions used as building blocks to prepare financial statements.
Learn how to produce financial reports, including income statements, statements of financial position and statements of cashflows.
Take part in practical examples and discussions.
Get to grips with the basic tools of management accounting.
Gain an awareness of the role of management accounting, an understanding of the basic models, concepts and techniques in management accounting, and an understanding of basic budgeting and budget preparation.
Understand the role of business management.
Learn how organisations are structured and managed and gain insight into different approaches to management and key schools of management thought.
Develop your understanding of leadership and management of teams and individuals and explore the role of internal and external stakeholders and the impact of external forces.
Learn how to present quantitative data visually and identify trends, averages and variation.
Explore the concept of probability and how managers apply the principle of probability to business scenarios.
Examine the theory of forecasting using historical data to predict future outcomes acknowledging margins for error and factors beyond manager’s control, and gain confidence in processing numbers to interpret business performance.
Learn why goods and services are demanded, how suppliers meet this demand and at what price.
Explore why countries specialise in particular products and the effect of trade barriers and tariffs on economic wealth.
Examine the concept of efficiency and become skilled at presenting and interpreting economic diagrams and graphs.
Develop an understanding of the key legal principles relating to the different models of business structure.
Delve deeper into contract law, corporate governance and insolvency.
Learn how to apply the law by using scenario-based assessment questions.
Continue your journey into financial reporting from the year 1 module, Introduction to Financial Accounting.
Continue to develop ideas for the key elements of international financial reporting and learn to analyse financial statements.
Gain knowledge of current ethical issues; create group accounts, and discuss ideas and thoughts of current practices within the industry.
Learn how to use accounting information in solving practical business problems and the limitations of theoretical techniques when applied in practice.
Identify the techniques appropriate to solve particular business problems and apply them to business problems.
Use management accounting information for planning, decision making and control, and interpret management accounting statements.
Learn the instrumental role business finance plays within the world of today's global business organisation.
Gain an understanding of the differing options available to businesses when considering raising finance to fund investment and growth.
Analyse and evaluate whether business finance theories can be successfully applied within the modern day business environment.
Study elements of strategic management and reflect on the role of human resource management.
Find out about organizing for stability and for change.
Explore management and marketing and investigate effective management control processes.
Develop a deep understanding of the national taxation system and the importance of tax planning to the wealth and success of individuals and corporations.
Explore topics that include administrative aspects of taxation, allowances, partnership and individual taxation, corporate taxation, and capital gains.
Learn current accounting issues dealing with auditing and carry out investigative research of financial consequences of issues in auditing.
Integrate theory with contemporary financial articles sourced from recent newspapers and research journals.
Develop your understanding of the purpose and value of an effective audit, including auditors and directors professional, legal and corporate governance responsibilities; the code of best practice and the London Stock Exchange listing rules; the audit processes and audit reports.
Through this module you’ll cover the following areas of study: Relevant costs for decision making; activity-based costing; pricing decisions; budgeting; management control systems; variance analysis; performance management; transfer pricing; budgeting and control, including quantitative analysis in budgeting; performance management systems; measurements and control, including performance analysis in not-for-profit organisations and the public sector.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to evaluate a range of key sustainable strategic management accounting models and concepts, critically understand specific analytical skills in key areas within the management accounting profession at local and international level, appraise the role and limitations of management accounting theory, and apply key management accounting concepts and methodologies in order to contribute to successful, sustainable decision making in an organisation.
Through this module you’ll cover the following areas of study: International reporting standards, shareholder ownership and equity, financial statement analysis, trend analysis, financial reports and decision making.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to appreciate the current key issues in international financial reporting, critically understand the conceptual framework as a paradigm for sustainable accounting, analyse and evaluate financial reports for strategic decision making, and apply cognitive skills of critical thinking and analysis.
Through this module you’ll cover the following areas of study: Defining corporate governance, accountability, and disclosure; the impact of corporate governance weaknesses and failure; corporate governance reform in the UK (recent developments and future directions); the role, functions, and duties of board of directors in corporate governance; the role of shareholders, including institutional investors in corporate governance and context of socially responsible investing; the role of transparency, internal control and risk management in corporate governance; an introduction to corporate governance systems worldwide, and corporate governance and stakeholder accountability.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to critically discuss the key sustainable corporate governance and ethics concepts; demonstrate a distinguished understanding of different theoretical perspectives on corporate governance and understand their assumptions about key actors, motives and control mechanisms; explore international comparative perspectives of corporate governance, focusing on the system found in the UK and contrasting this with a range of different corporate governance systems in countries around the world; and construct critical thinking about a range of approaches and options for corporate accountability and ethics requiring the organisation of thoughts, analysis, synthesis and critical appraisal.
Throughout this module you’ll cover the following areas of study: Capital markets and market efficiency, debt, equity, and hybrid financing, cost of capital and capital structure, capital budgeting, dividend decision-making, risk management, and merger and takeover activity.
By the end of the module you’ll be able to evaluate key strategic decisions that a business may have to make and appreciate how the accounting and finance profession can assist in evaluating those decisions, critically understand specific analytical skills in key decision making areas within strategy and finance at an international and local level, appraise limitations of the current state of financial theory in making sustainable strategic business decisions, and apply key valuation concepts and methodologies of financial decision making in order to contribute to the wider sustainable decision making of an organisation.
Contact the Study Centre directly for information on fees and finance.
Faculty of Business, Law and Tourism - Programme Specifications

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-mba-tp-sc:
Course starts: 18 October 2025 Apply now
ICBT Nugegoda
ICBT Batticaloa
ICBT Kurungala
ICBT Galle
You'll study a broad range of topics, from global corporate strategy to international business environment.
This course is also available on campus at Sunderland.
For more details or to apply, please visit the MBA course page .
The Sunderland Business School is a member of ‘The Association of Business Schools’
You'll complete a dissertation on a topic that you negotiate with your tutor.
There's a high level of personal research and independent working under supervision from your tutor.
Your progressed will be assessed through assignments and your dissertation.
Please contact Foreign Trade University for information on facilities:
Hanoi Campus 91 Chua Lang Lang Thuong Dong Da Hanoi
Ho Chi Minh City Campus 15 D5 Road, Ward 25, Binh Thanh District, Ho Chi Minh City
This course is taught in various quality-assured partner universities around the world.
For more information about each study centre, please use the left hand menu.
You can apply for direct entry onto the MBA (Top-Up) if you hold one of the following qualifications: EdExcel BTEC Diploma in Management Studies Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Executive Diploma.
You must have a record of experience in the workplace and the ability to operate in a managerial role.
Relevant work experience might be gained through internships, work placements, graduate projects, voluntary work, or other experience, with a cumulative duration of at least three months.
We'll consider applicants who don't have standard qualifications, but who have appropriate professional and managerial experience.
MBA graduates now work in a number of roles including a financial controller in the Gulf region, operations director in an oil company, general manager in Eastern Europe, division chief in China, business development manager for an automotive supplier, and vice president of a Canadian corporation.
Page last updated:  19 February 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-mba-sc:
European College (DEI College)
Evening
Course starts: 01 June 2026 Apply now
Ledra (Full Time)
European College (DEI College) - Greek Taught
Course starts: 23 September 2025 Apply now
You'll study a broad range of topics, from financial management to operations, global strategy to leading people.
Appreciate and apply key skills and knowledge associated with innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology transfer themes, as this module has been deliberately designed to both mentor and support you.
Explore a wide variety of enriched learning styles derived from live global commercial case studies to in-house technology-based activities.
Integrate your knowledge and embed key employability skills in a highly competitive and innovative world.
Said Nosir Street 33 Dushanbe Tajikistan 734003 Mobile: +992 8888 02 777 Email: info@mdis.edu.tj
Please contact the study centre for information about course start dates and fees.
MBA graduates now work in a number of senior management positions including financial controller in the Gulf region, operations director in an oil company, general manager in Eastern Europe, division chief in China, business development manager for an automotive supplier, and vice president of a Canadian corporation.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/postgraduate-global-business-general-mgt-da-sc:
Fast track your career in global business leadership.
Enhance your real-world management capabilities and qualify for senior roles with significant responsibility.
You'll study a broad range of topics, from strategic and project management to international marketing and corporate social responsibility.
Teaching methods include lectures, workshops, and self-study.
Your progress will be assessed with coursework, your research plan, and your dissertation.
This course is taught at SEGi University Kota Damansara, Malaysia.
Sunderland MBA graduates now work in a number of senior management positions, including financial controller in the Gulf region, operations director in an oil company, general manager in Eastern Europe, division chief in China, business development manager for an automotive supplier, and vice president of a Canadian corporation.
MBA Global Business/General Management Dual Award - programme spec (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-supply-chain-sc:
Study an MBA in your own country.
An MBA from a British university is an internationally-respected business qualification.
This Master in Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on supply chain management and our aim is to accelerate your promotion to well-paid positions of leadership, either in supply management or in any other function.
Your progress will be assessed through your dissertation and assignments.
Understand the central role of operations and supply chain management and logistics key processes.
Examine a number of leading approaches to operations and supply chain management and alternative logistic strategies that are linked to the types of products being sold and the processes used to make and deliver them.
Sunderland MBA graduates now work in a number of senior management positions, including financial controller in the Gulf region, general manager in Eastern Europe, division chief in China, and vice president of a Canadian corporation.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-hrm-sc:
Develop a specialism in Human Resource Management.
An MBA from a British university is an internationally respected business qualification.
This Master in Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on Human Resource Management.
You'll complete a specialist module of either ‘International Human Resource Management’ or ‘Organisation Development and Change’, and your dissertation will be on a topic related to Human Resource Management.
Your progress will be assessed with the dissertation and assignments, as well as exams in some topics.
Gain an insight into the different strategies, policies, and practices of international human resource management.
Learn about key IHRM concepts and models for managing across dynamic and diverse contexts.
Explore a key element in managing any international arena, which is an understanding and appreciation of cultural and institutional differences.
Please contact Sur University College for information on facilities:
Sur University College PO Box 440 P Code 411 Sur Sultanate of Oman

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-hospitality-management-sc:
Study a University of Sunderland MBA in your own country.
Qualify for senior roles in hospitality management.
This MBA in Hospitality Management is taught in quality-assured partners around the world and has a specific focus on hospitality.
On graduation, you'll be able to accelerate your promotion to well-paid positions of leadership in hospitality or any other sector.
You'll complete the specialist module ‘Hospitality Management Studies’ and your dissertation will be on a topic related to hospitality management.
By managing risk, these measures seek to ensure that financial and other resources are used in regular, ethical, economical, and effective ways that are to the benefit of the business and support its objectives.
Examine case studies of real-world international organisations and research-led strategy workshop activities, to critically analyse and evaluate contemporary developments in international business and management.
Expose yourself to a range of leadership and management styles and practices.
Learn about subject areas in which the concepts may be used explicitly or implicitly such as strategy and change, the three levels of strategy and decision-making cycles, the differences between management and leadership, leadership behaviours and motivation, emotional intelligence, leadership styles, and more.
Recognise value creation as a primary aim of organisations.
Address the industry’s impacts in terms of triple bottom-line indicators (economic, socio-cultural, and environmental).
Select the format of your final project: business dissertation, applied corporate project, or route specialism.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/business-and-management/mba-finance-sc:
Taught in quality-assured partners around the world, this Master in Business Administration (MBA) has a specific focus on finance, allowing you to specialise in the financial aspects of senior management.
Learn about the fundamental concepts and techniques required for understanding modern decision-making in finance and management accounting.
Research International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IASS) in financial reporting by exploring the international context, reasons for national differences in accounting practice and tradition, and the developing International Regulatory System (IASB) designed, and the underlying issues involved achieving greater harmonisation.
Examine a key function in organisations that involves developing and using financial and non-financial information to support decision-making that's congruent with the objectives of the organisation.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/business-intelligence-data-analytics-tu-sc:
Learn how to effectively use business intelligence and data analytics technologies and tools.
Focus on current research in the field of computing and digital technologies for business success.
Consider the professional and ethical requirements of big data.
This top-up course is informed by data science, AI and machine learning.
Data science research has impact wherever analysis of large-scale complex data is useful.
It enables businesses and policy makers to determine trends, it can be used in disease prevention, preventing terrorist attacks, cybersecurity, combatting crime and in the discovery of new scientific knowledge.
You will learn a range of industry specific software and tools such as Oracle, Python (Anaconda Navigator), R Studio and Weka.
We employ a blended teaching and learning approach and work consistently to expose you to real-world industrial activity while developing essential practical skills.
You will be assessed mostly by practical coursework, with some written assessments and occasional written examinations or time-constrained assessments.
Undertake advanced study in order to define, plan and a develop a proposal for a research investigation and scope, plan, develop and produce an academic research paper.
Learn about the practical applications of big data in a business context and gain a critical awareness of the strategic challenges and opportunities afforded by business intelligence to organisations.
Understand how traditional and newer data models and database technologies support real world demands of data.
Investigate various data architectures and how they can represent structured and unstructured data in traditional and big data systems, methods for designing, developing and maintaining these data systems, and tools for data access and analysis including data analytics tools and how they are used in areas such as data science.
Gain a broad introduction into AI techniques and a detailed understanding of the application of some critical approaches, so that when you go into industry or research, you are able to choose and develop a solution using the correct AI techniques for the problem.
Focus on the three core principles of interaction design: understanding users and their contexts which involve learning techniques to profile users and analyse their tasks, design principles such as layout and dialogue design, and user-centred evaluation methods such as usability testing and expert inspection.
You will graduate as a technically competent data and information systems analyst with experience of up-to-date methodologies, opening up a wide range of employment opportunities.
With the global data and business analytics market value continuing to increase, there is a clear demand for data analytics professionals.
Our graduates in this area are working as Software Developers and Data Engineers at financial institutions including JP Morgan and Deloitte and software development companies such as Accenture.
You will be given additional support in career planning, preparing to apply, preparing your CV, interview techniques and much more, meaning you will well equipped to apply for exciting, high-salary positions such as data analytics analyst or big data consultant.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/computing/business-technology-management-study-centres:
Explore the topical areas of Cybersecurity and Data Science.
Undertake a project to solve a real-world business technology problem.
Become a data and security specialist in business.
Our MSc Business Technology Management course is designed to meet the current IT needs of employers.
Academic expertise in Data Science, Data Analytics, Machine Learning, Statistics and Cybersecurity are embedded throughout the modules.
You'll develop skills and abilities in data management as well as learning to deal with real-world cybersecurity issues.
On completing the course, you'll be equipped to deal with business' organisational data management requirements.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, tutorials, seminars, group discussions, group work, research and practical laboratory sessions.
Assessment is primarily by coursework.
The project module in the final stage of the course gives you the opportunity to work with academics or businesses in solving real-world problems in the area of business technology management.
Study a range of governance and management topics which will enable you to determine, establish and maintain appropriate governance, delivery and creation of cybersecurity solutions for information security, systems security and network security.
Discuss the management, organisation and use of cybersecurity and data science principles, policies and procedures in organisational settings.
Contextualise technology management ecosystems related to cybersecurity and data science depending on your field of interest.
Develop techniques and use tools that will enable you to undertake critical analysis of the challenges and opportunities of using cybersecurity to mitigate and manage risk to data and enable business continuity in the case of data breaches.
Study machine learning, data mining, and data analytics including relevant professional, ethical, social and legal aspects.
Explore topics including information and knowledge management, problems with data, approaches to selection of data analytics tools, principles of modelling and simulation, and operations research.
Examine the trends, tools, and current developments in the area of machine learning, data mining and data analytics and their practical applications.
Undertake a real-world project through the support of a sponsor which includes both a research and practical element.
As part of the course, you'll undertake a project solving a real-world problem.
These projects are often sponsored by external clients, and we encourage and support you to find your own client and sponsor.
On completing this course, you'll be introduced to a wide variety of fundamental topics in Business Technology Management, focusing on the key aspects of Data Science and Cybersecurity.
You'll have critical knowledge and understanding of the subject to become a business data and security specialist.
Other potential employment roles include:

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/undergraduate-tourism-hospitality-management-tp-sc:
Course starts: 15 December 2025 Apply now
Study for a UK degree from your country.
This course International Tourism and Hospitality Management course takes place in study centres that include universities and colleges in countries outside of the UK, and is a way to gain a world-class undergraduate degree from a British university without leaving your country.
The content of the course mirrors the Sunderland-based equivalent course, the International Tourism and Hospitality Management (Top-Up) .
This particular course allows you to top-up a Foundation degree in travel and tourism to a full honours degree with just one more year of study.
A typical week for you will include lectures, seminars, workshops, group work and e-learning.
As well as assessments that count towards your final degree, there are ongoing assessments to provide feedback and help consolidate your learning.
Assessment methods include written coursework, projects, presentations, practical exercises and a major project in your final year.
Please contact British University College for more information about facilities and location:
British University College S-25, U Chit Manung Road U Chit Maung Housing Yangon Myanmar
Please contact the Study Centre directly for more information on facilities and location.
Please contact the Study Centre directly for information about tuition fees and scholarships.
When you graduate from this International Tourism and Hospitality Management course, you’ll be ready to take on a position in managerial roles within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Job opportunities can include hotel manager, tourism development officer, or resort office manager.
Employers can include hotels, airlines, travel agencies, events organisers, heritage attractions, Local Authorities, and other public sector bodies.
Additionally, you'll have a broad set of transferable skills that will equip you for a much wider range of graduate-level employment.
More details about employment and careers will be available from your selected study centre.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/undergraduate-international-tourism-hospitality-sc:
Gain a solid tourism and hospitality qualification with a focus on management.
Study for a UK degree from your home country.
Gain a world-class undergraduate degree in International Tourism and Hospitality Management from a British university without leaving your country.
This course will teach the framework of international tourism and hospitality management, so that when you graduate, you'll be fully prepared to undertake managerial roles within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, fieldwork and e-learning.
Assessment methods include written coursework, projects, presentations, practical exercises, time-constrained examinations and the major projects in your final year.
Please note, optional modules are subject to availability.
Please contact the relevant study centre for more information on location and facilities.
When you graduate from this course, you’ll be ready to take on a managerial position within the tourism and hospitality industry.
Employers could include hotels, airlines, travel agencies, events organisers, heritage attractions, local authorities, and other public sector bodies.
Additionally, you'll have a broad set of transferable skills that'll equip you for a much wider range of graduate-level employment.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/postgraduate-sustainable-tourism-study-centres:
You will cover key issues such as ecotourism, challenges to implementing sustainable practices in tourism and slow tourism with a focus on rural, wellbeing and wellness travel.
The sustainability agenda, and change management will also be explored, and the course will develop your theoretical knowledge of models and concepts applicable to real world scenarios.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, study visits and group work.
Use the tab on the left contact them directly to find out more about their facilities and location.
Please contact the Study Centre for more information on their specific requirements and equivalent qualifications from outside the UK.
Please contact MDIS Singapore directly for information on fees and finance.
The course is designed to build on the core and transferable skills necessary for future work.
This course has strong links with the local community and modules are informed by the industry and regional and national employers.
Through work experiences and placements, the course offers regional and global business community, public organisations and others, an access to highly motivated and skilled undergraduates dedicated to the industry.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/health-clinical-sciences/undergraduate-practice-development-sc:
BSc (Hons) Practice Development covers the concepts of clinical governance, critical appraisal, reflective practice and public health.
There is a strong emphasis on relating theory to clinical practice.
In addition, by choosing your own project in consultation with tutors, you can tailor learning to your particular career aspirations.
All learning is underpinned by an evidence-based practice which promotes the development of high-quality health care provision.
You‘ll be taught by an enthusiastic and knowledgeable team of highly skilled professionals, who are actively involved in consultancy work and healthcare research.
Each member of the team has at least one specialist area of clinical and teaching expertise.
You will be taught using a range of teaching methods including lectures, seminars, group work presentations and one to one tutorials.
You will be assessed using a range of assessment methods including written assignments, group presentations and individual presentations and exams.
Please visit the International College of Business and Technology website for information on location and facilities.
Please contact the International College of Business and Technology for information on tuition fees and available support.
Qualifications at degree-level are becoming increasingly vital for moving up the career ladder.
Our graduates have gone on to secure many senior positions in a range of healthcare settings.
Page last updated:  09 February 2024

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/tourism-hospitality-and-events/postgraduate-tourism-hospitality-study-centres:
Gain a head start in the tourism and hospitality sectors.
Study topics such as international tourism and development and current practices in tourism, hospitality and events.
Graduate and work in a range of roles in one of the world’s largest industries.
This master's course is designed to give you a head start in the tourism and hospitality sectors, which are part of one of the world’s largest industries.
Our course blends a rigorous social science approach with the development of skills that are needed by, for example, restaurant entrepreneurs, resort coordinators, and hotel managers.
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods which include lectures, seminars, study visits, and group work.
Please contact the Study Centre for information on the fees for this course.
The MSc Tourism and Hospitality equips you with the skills and knowledge to progress rapidly in tourism and hospitality management.
Potential employment opportunities include hotel and resort management, attractions and museums, destination marketing agencies, tourism companies, restaurant and bar management, and catering management.
Another option is to set up your own tourism or hospitality business, drawing on the entrepreneurial resources that are available through our Careers and Employability Service.
A master's degree will also open up opportunities in academic roles or further study towards a PhD.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/education/postgraduate-education-sc:
Capital College
The MA Education degree is ideal for teachers and other educational professionals who want to develop their careers with a highly specialised postgraduate degree.
When you join the course, you’ll be part of a community of practice, studying alongside professionals from a broad range of educational backgrounds.
Our aim is to deepen your knowledge and enhance your employment prospects as the degree provides you with the opportunity to critically engage with theory and obtain a clear understanding of how this relates to your own practice, background, and experience within the field of education.
This MA Education course is a flexible qualification which opens alternative career paths and allows progression towards new professional opportunities.
The MA Education degree is taught via seminars, workshops, support sessions, collaborative group work and discussion, tutorials, presentations, and directed private study.
Your progress will be assessed both through written assignments, including a dissertation, and a variety of carefully designed tasks to ensure you meet all learning outcomes.
Compared to an undergraduate course, you’ll find that a master’s degree requires a higher level of independent working.
This degree is ideal for teachers and other professionals working in educational management who want to progress their careers more quickly.
The ability to specialise the course content provides opportunities in particular fields of education, such as becoming an expert in teaching and learning, or leadership and management.
Depending on which route you choose, you’ll study modules that will allow you to critically examine these areas and identify skills that will enhance your ability to transfer learning to further study and to the workplace.
The knowledge and skills you’ll gain studying for a master’s in education will also be transferable to many other sectors, particularly education policy and government.
If you’re already working in a relevant field, you’ll graduate with enhanced potential for progression professionally.
Please note that this course doesn’t qualify you as a teacher.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/social-sciences/health-social-care-sc:
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care will provide you with a detailed understanding of health and social care policy and practice.
You'll study the key contemporary issues that influence health, social care, and the wellbeing of individuals and communities, from a theoretical, policy, and practical level.
This health and social care degree combines academic rigour with practical experience.
You'll have the opportunity to test your new knowledge and skills in a work placement in your final year.
This health and social care course is taught via workshops, small group work, lectures, computer-based learning, presentations, and independent learning.
Your progress will be assessed with projects, presentations, multiple choice questionnaires, and time-constrained tests.
Throughout the degree, you’ll have support from academic staff.
Learn to question the process by which certain experiences and differences become defined as social problems and how certain individuals, groups and communities become excluded.
Examine the contribution sociology can make to thinking about and trying to solve social problems.
Gain knowledge of the nature and extent of particular social problems to explore the relationship between definition, explanation, and intervention.
Enhance your understanding of different situations we may agree are social problems yet can be difficult to see how they are linked together.
Build research skills to identify the causes, impacts and responses to social problems in society.
Carry out your own research, investigation an aspect of contemporary social life, learning how to think about, organise, manage, and report on social scientific research.
Learn about the sociology of health, medicine, and the body, and examine the growth and power of medicine and its role in regulating our bodies.
Explore interesting case studies of women’s bodies, gay men, transgender bodies, bodily enhancement and the racialisation of bodies.
Examine the role of medicine and the body in creating a socially constructed idea of what is ‘normal’.
Examine the nature of personal lives within modern society and explore how the construction of our family and personal lives have been affected by history, ideology, and the nature of policy.
Analyse how the nature of the family has been used ideologically to frame ‘deviant’ family groups, personal lives, and personal relationships.
Gain a robust understanding of social theory and a critical awareness of modern-day case studies.
Explore a range of counselling models to develop the theoretical, analytical, and critical skills necessary to work with clients and the interpersonal skills necessary to become a reflective practitioner.
Put the skills and techniques learnt throughout the module into practice, such as interviewing, and approaches derived from counselling.
Undertake work-based practice in an organisational setting of your choice and utilise this experience to develop and reflect upon a range of generic, subject and programme specific skills, which you are likely to need in your future career.
Complete a sustained research enquiry into a health and social care-related issue/topic of your own choice.
Draw on your understanding of research methodologies and methods, relevant theoretical knowledge, and literature within your field of study.
Build on the knowledge gained throughout the course with a theoretical analysis, taking a critical stance to the dominant position of biomedicine and policy directions to health, development, wellbeing, and illness in the adult and ageing population.
Explore a biopsychosocial approach through the medium of life course theory and exploration of each later stage of the lifespan.
Engage with concepts and theories of gender and patriarchy to critically make sense of domestic violence in intimate relationships.
Comprehend how theories of gender and patriarchy construct ‘love’ in intimate relationships in ways which produce inequalities and power.
Analyse the underpinning models of criminal justice in England and Wales to make sense of how this system works in patriarchal society, to understand outcomes for domestic violence offenders and victims.
Evaluate contemporary research including key theoretical frameworks to analyse how domestic violence is perpetuated.
Analyse and present theoretical and empirical research to construct knowledge during the module.
Examine the expansion of medicine as an institution of power which defines and controls contemporary populations.
Critically evaluate the history of medicine with reference to the construction of disability through the notion of ‘normality’ and ‘abnormality’.
Study the historical development of key professions such as clinical medicine and psychiatry.
Develop critical knowledge around disability and long-term health conditions as forms of social exclusion.
Gain the ability to apply principles and values linked to equality, diversity, and empowerment to practice.
Examine emerging social issues in detail and their implications for practice.
Revisit and extend your understanding of the political and ideological context for social policy and practise responses to such issues.
Develop a more complex understanding of human rights principles and explore current debates around the impacts of inequality on health, welfare, and economic wellbeing in relation to a contemporary social issue.
Develop critical evaluation of social, cultural, and historical use of substances within society and how substances have been classified and regulated over time.
Appreciate why substances are used and the relative prevalence and harms of both legal and illicit substances in the UK, Europe and internationally.
Explore theories of drug use and addiction and ways in which problematic use is treated.
Consider the biopsychosocial reasons and effects for/of using substances and the wider social and political landscape in which use may become problematic.
Please note, optional modules are subject to change.
This course is taught at one of our partners.
Health and social care is a diverse field, with opportunities to specialise in areas such as young people, mental health, or drug and alcohol abuse support.
Many BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care graduates now work in the NHS, charities such as Age UK and MIND, social care organisations such as Turning Point, and other public, private, and voluntary sector health agencies.
Further study is also a popular option, with some graduates choosing to pursue taught master's courses or research degrees.
As part of your health and social care degree, you'll undertake a work placement during your final year.
This will be your opportunity to apply your learning in a real-life context.
You'll be able to choose a placement which most closely matches your interests.
Previous students' placements have been with organisations such as local hospices, residential care homes, disability support, schools, mental health services, drug and alcohol services, the North of England Refugee Service, and Age UK.

New sentences found on https://sunderland.ac.uk/study/nursing-midwifery/undergraduate-nursing-sc:
ICBT Jaffna
Course starts: 20 September 2025 Apply now
ICBT Gampaha
ICBT Kurunegala
Build on your experience, knowledge, and skills of nursing.
Top-up your registered nurse qualification to a full honours degree in one year.
Progress your career and embark on senior positions.
All learning on the BSc (Hons) Nursing (Top-Up) course is underpinned by evidence-based practice that promotes the development of high-quality health care provision.
Discuss the principles of research, research skills and how research can be applied to healthcare practice.
Develop an understanding of qualitative and quantitative methodologies, data collection and data analysis and the structure of research question design.
Examine the problems associated with research design and critiquing research papers.
Explore theoretical healthcare perspectives and critically debate how they impact upon healthcare practice.
Learn about healthcare theories and models relating to healthcare delivery and outcomes.
Engage in debates relating to contemporary healthcare practice.
Learn about the process of researching to inform healthcare decisions, specifically linked to practical applications within the clinical setting.
Gain an understanding of the principles of healthcare evaluation, considering both the design of studies, and the elements of care which can be examined.
Explore concepts from management and business theory, as well as current ideas in healthcare delivery.
Relate these concepts to the practice setting in order to manage the organisation and enhance the patient and service user’s outcomes.
Cover an outline of learning theories, and links to practice settings; approaches to teaching in formal and informal settings; communication skills; negotiation and feedback skills; approaches to evaluation of educational programmes; the nature of assessment and reliability and validity in assessment; aspects of supervision, mentorship and preceptorship; and reflective practice and the theory.
Examine legal and ethical principles which impact upon healthcare practice.
Focus on current legislation, ethical theories and concepts, patients’ rights and responsibilities, confidentiality, and professional regulation.
Explore ethical and legal dilemmas of healthcare.
Undertake a dissertation which will consist of a critique of an area of current interest within the nursing field.
Carry out a structured systematic literature review, which will include a critical analysis of the reported literature as well as recommendations for nursing and nursing practice.
Please contact the Study Centre directly for information on facilities and location.
Please contact the International College of Business and Technology for information on fees and finance.
This course is for people who already hold a registered nursing qualification.
On successful completion of this course, you'll have an honours degree that underlines your advanced clinical expertise and professionalism.
Page last updated:  26 January 2024