# Site: https://www.sussex.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 465
# --------

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk:
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We'd like to set additional cookies to understand how you use our site so we can improve it for everyone.
Also, we'd like to serve you some cookies set by other services to show you relevant content.
We were awarded first place in two categories in this year’s What Uni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs).
Get a real feel for life at Sussex.
Meet our students and academics, tour the campus, and explore your degree options.
Book now.
Our Centres of Excellence are driving progress for planet and people
Discover more about our centres
The Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT), Peter Kyle, visited the Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies (SCQT) during his recent campus tour, praising the Centre for creating high-value jobs and investment in Greater Brighton’s emerging ‘Quantum Silicon Valley’.
Read more...
University of Sussex research has found that cats are more interested in objects when they appear in expected rather than unexpected locations, subverting their reputation for curiosity.
A new study by the University of Sussex and Zhejiang Chinese Medical University has revealed that blocking a protein known as LMTK3 can prevent breast cancer tumours from turning immune cells into ‘friends’.
Read all news stories
University of Sussex Sussex House, Falmer Brighton, BN1 9RH United Kingdom
Course and application enquiries: Ask us a question
General enquiries: +44 (0)1273 606755 information@sussex.ac.uk
Copyright © 2025, University of Sussex
Modern Slavery Act Statement [PDF 161KB]
Back to top

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/privacy-and-cookies:
Read about the cookies we use and the steps we take regarding your privacy when using our website.
Read our privacy notice and find out how we use your information.
Find out about the cookies we use and why we use them.
Look up how to reject the use of cookies in your browser.
University of Sussex Sussex House,
                    Falmer Brighton,
                    BN1 9RH United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/accessibility:
Find out how to navigate the University of Sussex website and see our accessibility statement.
The University of Sussex is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Sussex website , Student hub , Staff pages , jobs portal and mobile applications.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
That means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
Within our content management system (CMS), we have a built in readability score tool.
This generates a score which tells us how readable our content is.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible, for example some:
Further detail on our compliance status and non-accessible content is set out below.
If you are having trouble accessing content on this site, need content in a different format, or wish to provide feedback, contact us at: web-accessibility@sussex.ac.uk .
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact: web-accessibility@sussex.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard , due to the non-compliances and the exceptions listed below.
Some areas of the website which were developed before September 2018 may not meet the AA accessibility standard.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Our jobs portal does not completely meet WCAG 2.1 and 2.2 accessibility standards.
This system is provided by an external supplier.
We are currently working with the external supplier to resolve these issues.
You can find out more about the content which is not compliant with the accessibility regulations below.
We audited our jobs pages in May 2024 and found they are only partially compliant with WCAG 2.1 and 2.2.
We are working with our external supplier to address these issues, however until they are remedied the content listed below is non-accessible for the following reason(s):
There are issues with link text such as: non descriptive links being used for files/file names, social media links, and links in the cookie banner in the application form.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships.
We are continually working to fix descriptive link text issues.
On the jobs portal landing page, each job has link text which reads 'View job'.
There is currently no way in the third party providers system to make this text unique to each vacancy.
The third party provider is looking to update their system and this should be resolved by September 2025.
Some links are underlined in the html using <u>Link</u>.
This should be styled using CSS.
We are currently working to resolve this issue with our third party provider by July 2025.
At 400% zoom, the 'Select language' box and other page elements did not reflow to fit the webpage.
This failed WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.4.10 Reflow.
This was fixed in December 2024.
However, now when zooming into the page to 400% other elements do not reflow to fit the page.
This is currently under investigation and planned to be fixed by September 2025.
The search field does not have a properly associated label.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships, 2.4.6 Headings and Labels and 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions.
This is planned to be resolved by July 2025.
Heading levels are not always being used and if they are, they are not in a logical order.
Some pages have more than one H1 header.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships and 2.4.6 Headings and Labels.
This is planned to be fixed by end of July 2025.
We are working to web best practice guidelines so that language is readable, perceivable and understandable.
Some of the job description PDFs do not meet accessibility requirements.
This is because of issues with header levels, colour contrast and images and logos not having alt-tags.
We are currently working to make the PDF templates accessible.
Our Sussex Projects Knowledge Hub (which uses Sharepoint) does not completely meet WCAG 2.1 and 2.2 accessibility standards.
We are currently working to resolve these issues.
Issues to be resolved by Sussex: Videos: some videos (particularly in the training section) do have transcripts, but these are not structured in an accessible way.
For example, they have timestamps present and no descriptive text.
They only contain verbal speech.
This fails WCAG 2.2 1.2.1 Audio only and video only.
We are working to make these accessible by August 2025.
Colour contrast: There are some instances where colour contrast does not meet the WCAG requirement.
For example, colours used in infographics and graphs.
This fails WCAG 2.2 1.4.3 Contrast Minimum.
We are working to resolve this by August 2025.
Text on images: There is a large use of images depicting diagrams and other essential information.
This fails WCAG 2.2 1.4.5 Images of text.
We are working towards providing a text alternative for these images in the interim while we plan how to create these using semantic html.
There are a large number of these image and work will be continuing throughout 2025.
We hope to have resolved this issue by December 2025.
Issues that only the third-party provider can resolve:
ARIA labels: some elements have an aria-labelled by or aria-describedby value that does not match the ID attribute value of another element in the page.
This fails WCAG 2.2 1.3.1 Info and Relationships and 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value.
We are contacting the third party provider to ask for advice on this issue.
Access key: Some of the pages have an accesskey attribute.
An accesskey provides a way to define shortcut keys for web page elements but they can conflict with assistive technology.
This fails WCAG 2.2 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks.
Heading levels: There are no H1s on the pages.
This does not meet WCAG 2.2 1.3.1 Info and Relationships.
This is because of a hardcoded rule in the system itself.
ARIA labels have been used to correctly tag H1 headers.
Skip to main content: This link exists on every page but it fails to always link the user to the main content of the page.
Menu list expanding on hover: Currently the menu opens upon hovering and is dismissed when focus is removed.
This can be difficult for people to use.
This only partially meets WCAG 2.2 1.4.13 Content on Hover or Focus.
Reflow: When zooming into the pages from 200% to 400%, some text does not reflow.
This fails WCAG 2.2 1.4.10 Reflow.
Focus indicator: This does not always meet colour contrast requirements or fulfil the criteria for pixels size.
This makes it difficult for users using keyboard only to see where they are in the page.
This fails WCAG 2.2 2.4.7 Focus Visible.
Redundant links: Some pages have adjacent links going to same location.
This fails WCAG 2.2 2.4.4 Link Purpose.
We believe we are unable to fix these, and are contacting the third-party provider for advice.
Our Space with us website does not fully meet WCAG 2.2 accessibility standards.
This website is provided by an external supplier.
We are currently looking in to how to resolve these issues.
A timeline will be listed below when we have finished our assessment.
Colour contrast: Some wording used in the footer of the webpages does not meet accessibility requirements.
This fails WCAG requirement 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum) (Level AA).
Missing alternate text for images: Some of the images used across the site, including in the galleries (carousels) do not have alternate descriptions.
Also, within the booking form the ‘space with us’ logo at the top of page needs a meaningful alt text.
Also within the linked to PDFs some of the images and graphics do not have alt descriptions.
This fails WCAG requirement 1.1.1 Non-text Content (Level A).
Headers: Some pages are using multiple h1 headers or the headers used are not in a hierarchical order.
For example one page header starts as an H6.
This is also the case for headers on the linked to PDFs.
This fails WCAG requirement 1.3.1: Info and Relationships (Level A).
Page title is missing or not informative enough: 2.4.2 Page Titled (Level A).
Redundant links: There are redundant links being used throughout the site and in the carousels.
This fails WCAG 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context) (Level A).
Hidden elements have focusable content: There are hiddene elements receiving focus behind the images in the carousel and elsewhere across the site.
This fails WCAG 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value (Level A).
Link needs text alternative: There is a link hidden in the footer of the homepage.
It is missing a text alternative.
This fails WCAG 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context).
An ARIA role is being used that is invalid: Within the code this role is being used: role='header.' This is not a defined role within WAI-ARIA.
Carousels need a pause, stop or hide function: This carousels run for just over five seconds and give the user no option to pause, stop or hide it.
This fails WCAG 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide (Level A).
Links should be discernible: Links are not underlined to distinguish them as links.
They are also not descriptive.
Some page elements do not reflow to fit the screen: When zooming into 200% and beyond, the leave a message box in the bottom right of the screen does not reflow to fit the page.
This fails WCAG 1.4.10 Reflow (level AA).
Some elements are not interactable with a keyboard: When using keyboard only some elements are not interactable.
For example, the drop downs in the meganav do not work so you cannot access the subpages.
This fails WCAG 2.1.1 Keyboard.
Screen reader issues: There are issues when using a screen reader with the pages, these include, the mega nav drop down does not work, the drop down arrows on the meganav appear to be pictures and so the screen reader is reading out ‘image’.
Focus moves behind the images in the carousel at the bottom of the homepage and the written content disappears.
In some of the blocks at the end, it thinks the content is clickable but the wording is not a link.
This fails multiple WCAG standards including 2.1.1 Keyboard.
Images of text: On the linked to PDFs, the main page headers seem to be an images of text.
This fails WCAG 1.4.5: Images of Text (Level AA).
Missing form labels: There are missing form labels for the fields - 'Travel period' (both date fields) and 'Discount' code.
This means a form control does not have a corresponding label.
If a form control does not have a properly associated text label, the function or purpose of that form control may not be presented to screen reader users.
This fails WCAG 1.3.1 Info and Relationships (Level A).
Empty headers: Some of the headings tags in the booking form contain no content.
No ARIA landmarks: No page regions or ARIA landmarks were found.
Regions and ARIA landmarks identify significant page areas.
Most web pages should have regions defined, particularly for the main content area.
Skipped heading level: Header levels skip from H1s to H4s.
It is fine to skip one header level but not several.
This appears on some of the headers like ‘Reservation’ and ‘Guests’ which have an H1 preceding them but are H4s.
There is a possible list not marked up semantically: In the terms and conditions there is a numbered list but it is not semantically marked up as such in the html.
The Space with us logo needs a text alternative.
This fails WCAG 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context).
Page zoom is restricted: The viewport element on this page prevents users from zooming in or scaling text content.
Text is also clipped when resized.
Visitors should be able to scale text to 200% without losing any information.
This fails WCAG 1.4.4 Resize Text and 1.4.10 Reflow.
A container element is empty: The role=list element is being used but it doesn't contain any required-owned elements.
This fails WCAG 1.3.1 Info and Relationships.
There are some issues when using a screen reader, these are: you cannot interact with the date fields at the top of the page and you can not navigate into or interact with the calendar.
Error messages in the form are not read out to screen reader users.
For example, if you try to add more than one guest a black box explaining that you can only add one guest per room appears but this is not read out by a screen reader.
Lots of images are being used for things like arrows, but they have no alt text and are not hidden so they are not communicated to the user.
They often also do not work with a screen reader or keyboard only.
Many documents are in non-HTML formats, for example PDF.
Some of these PDFs and other files may not be optimised for screen readers.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
Some are pre-2018 and some are in the Archive.
We plan to either fix post 2018 ones or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
This is an ongoing process, we have created accessibility guides for staff and we are raising awareness across the University.
If you require access to a PDF that does not meet accessibility standards email web-accessibility@sussex.ac.uk and we will provide an accessible version to you.
We are currently working to audit the video content on our site.
We are currently focused on auditing our undergraduate content and hope to have this complete by Summer 2024.
Some of our forms do not fully meet WCAG 2.2 accessibility standards.
We have detailed known issues with our forms below.
Some of our forms are provided by third party providers and we are working with them to resolve the issues.
We believe that fixing some of the accessibility issues found in our jobs portal would place a disproportionate burden on the University.
We believe the cost and resources needed to fix the issues outweighs the benefits for users.
We have therefore submitted a Disproportionate Burden Claim for the following issues related to our jobs portal.
If granted, we are committed to resolving the issues either by December 2024 or September 2025.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents do not meet accessibility standards – for example, they may not be structured so they’re accessible to a screen reader.
This does not meet WCAG 2.2 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role value).
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
For example, we do not plan to fix old pdfs which are in our archive .
Video and audio content from before 23rd September 2020 is exempt from meeting these standards.
We are doing our best to replace older video content and replace it with content that meets standards.
Live video streams do not have captions.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.2.4 (captions - live).
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Maps fall outside of current accessibility standards.
Our university maps are not accessible by screen readers.
All addresses highlighted on our maps are available elsewhere on the website.
We are looking into an accessible solution to our maps.
See our recent audits below, the issues identified and the timescale for fixing them.
We audited our Sussexsport app and booking system in April 2024 and found it is only partially compliant with WCAG 2.2 because of some of the following top level issues.
We are now working with a third party provider to address these issues.
We audited our self-guided tour app in May 2024 and found it is only partially compliant with WCAG 2.2 because of some of the following top level issues.
As a UK-based institution, the University of Sussex is governed by the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
These require us to meet WCAG 2.2 AA standards across our websites and digital services.
Although the European Accessibility Act (EAA) does not apply directly to UK public sector bodies, we are indirectly committed to ensuring our digital services are accessible to EU-based students and partner institutions.
Where applicable, we may:
We are monitoring the evolving impact of the EAA and continue to review our accessibility processes in line with international standards.
If you are an EU-based student or partner and have accessibility concerns about a digital service at the University of Sussex, contact us at web-accessibility@sussex.ac.uk .
This statement was prepared on 20 September 2019.
It was reviewed on 26 June 2024 and will be updated regularly as we move forward with our actions and research.
This website was tested in-house in 2020 and had a further in-house audit in May 2022.
It was audited by AbilityNet in July 2022 and reaudited by AbilityNet in March 2024.
There are a variety of techniques you can use to navigate our site.
You can use the top-level drop-down navigation and the site search , both of which give you access across our website and resources contained within.
On most sections of the site you can use the page navigation (which appears to the left of this content) and the breadcrumb trail (which appears just above this content).
Most modern browsers support some form of built-in text resizing or page zooming.
Changing the text size or zoom varies depending on the browser you are using.
Resizing a page depends on the browser you are using:
From the 'Tools' cog icon in the top right corner, select 'Zoom' and then choose your setting
Hold down the CTRL key and press + to increase the text/zoom Hold down the CTRL key and press - to decrease the text/zoom
Hold down the Command key and press + to increase the text/zoom Hold down the Command key and press - to decrease the text/zoom
Our site supports:
Refer to the following websites to get information relating to accessibility matters such as how to adjust your browser, computer, keyboard and mouse settings to suit your individual needs
The website has been developed following guidelines which are aimed at achieving a good level of accessibility – we endeavour to meet with WCAG 2.2 AA standards .
We have taken the following accessibility and usability guidelines into consideration when developing the site:
We have delivered training on accessibility to a number of our devolved web editors.
This is an ongoing task.
We have developed our accessible web components library and are in the process of training all web editors to use these.
We have develped a series of "How to" pages for creating accessible documents and are currently preparing to deliver a series of training sessions for all staff who produce online documents.
This website is tested for accessibility whenever we develop new web conponents.
We also crawl the site regularly to find issues such as where images without alt tags are located.
Tests are carried out with users and via automated software.
We have set up an accessibility working group which will oversee digital accessibility improvements.
The group will form part of wider accessibility group within the University.
Members of our development team have taken training courses provided by W3 and WebAIM to enable them to provide a more accessible experience for our visitors.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study:
Choose from over 500 undergraduate and postgraduate courses and degrees at a highly ranked, research-led university in Brighton, UK.
For general queries, ask us a question online or email study@sussex.ac.uk
If you have questions about your application, please contact Admissions on:
Here are other contact details which may be useful:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about:
For over 60 years the aim of our courses, research, culture and campus has been to stimulate, excite and challenge.
So from scientific discovery to global policy, from student welfare to career development, Sussex innovates and takes a lead.
And today, in every part of society and across the world, you will find someone from Sussex making an original and valuable contribution.
Discover more about Sussex and see how we perform in the league tables
Find out about our Vice-Chancellor, schools, departments and professional services
See our five-year strategy and find out how we spend our money
Find out about how our committment to delivering value for money.
Search our vacancies and find out how to apply
Explore our term dates and opening times
Find out how to get to Sussex by public transport or car
See our campus map and explore our buildings and developments
In our 60th anniversary year, we reflected on the original values of Sussex, how they have shaped us and how they shape our future.
READ MORE
Find out what we do in the local area and how you can get involved
Find out about sustainability on campus
Discover our widening participation programmes and events
Find out about our vision to become Inclusive Sussex
Find out how we're providing sanctuary for academics and students, and our commitment to making the University a safe place for forced migrants and asylum seekers
Sussex 2025 reimagines the pioneering spirit of the original purpose of the University but does so for new times and a new generation, including:
Find out more about our vision .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news:
Discover the latest news and features about our research, our people and our University.
The University of Sussex, in partnership with the Institute of Development Studies (IDS), has been ranked first in the world for Development Studies in the QS World University Rankings 2025.
Find out more
Discover research that’s driving progress for our planet and its people, built on a belief that any challenge is only #ImpossibleUntilDone.
FIND OUT MORE
More features...
19 August 2025
Peter Kyle praised Sussex's Centre for Quantum Technologies for creating jobs and investment in Greater Brighton's emerging ‘Quantum Silicon Valley’
29 July 2025
Honorary recipients include Suzy Izzard, who received a Doctor of the University at this year’s summer graduation.
See all University news
7 August 2025
The award recognises and celebrates the outstanding impact Dr Danvers has made on student outcomes and the teaching profession
28 July 2025
The University of Sussex mourns the loss of Professor Margaret (Maggie) Boden, a pioneering figure in cognitive science and artificial intelligence.
See all our people news
President Trump’s tariff war could cost the US economy around $31bn a month as foreign investors keep their money at home, according to new...
10 July 2025
They say curiosity killed the cat but a new study from Sussex has found that our feline friends may not be as inquisitive as we once thought.
See all Research news
Explore our research
See all news stories
From Brexit to student life -  see what we’re blogging about and listen to our podcasts.
Find out more...
press@sussex.ac.uk See our full list of media contacts

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/international:
The University of Sussex is proud of its reputation as an institution with a distinctly global outlook allowing us to be at the forefront of research influence worldwide.
Our wide range of international activities continue to develop new opportunities for collaboration and knowledge exchange in our efforts to tackle global issues.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research:
Our research is contributing new knowledge, ideas and solutions, which is leading to real change in the world and making a difference to people’s lives.
At Sussex, we support a diverse and multidisciplinary research environment where researchers can truly believe a challenge is only impossible until it’s done.
Browse our Centres of Excellence .
From illuminating what’s happening in our brains to developing a quantum computer, explore the breadth of our research.
Find out about our research strategy, standards and our research performance.
Search our directory of expertise to find researchers relevant to your field of interest.
Search more than 30,000 journal articles, published conference papers, books and book chapters.
Find out about our research programmes, centres and groups.
Find out about our four faculties, contributing knowledge and solutions that will help to shape the world.
We’re number one in the world for Development Studies for the ninth year running ( QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 ) .
Our interdisciplinary research embraces our pioneering spirit and shapes the student experience as we seek to tackle the challenges facing us all.
find out more
[On screen text - ‘Dr.
Saurabh Arora - SPRU - Science Policy Research Unit, University of Sussex’]
[Indie-guitar music fades up and plays throughout the rest of the video]
Dr.
Saurabh Arora: Let me start off by talking about a quote from James Baldwin, the great American author, “Not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed if it is not faced.”
And I think this is a motto at the heart of Sussex's education, particularly in terms of addressing critically the challenges that are facing the world.
[On screen text - ‘The University of Sussex has been ranked as the best in the world for Development Studies for the last six years by QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2017-2023]
[On screen text - ‘Prof.
Andy McKay - Department of Economics, University of Sussex Business School’]
Prof.
Andy McKay: I think Sussex's continued success in Development Studies reflects two things: the quality and diversity of faculty that are available here, and the quality of students that we're able to attract.
Melissa Leach - Director, Institute of Development Studies’]
We've been at the forefront of really rigorous, robust research that tackles successive development challenges.
Lyndsay McLean - Department of Anthropology, School of Global Studies’]
Lyndsay McLean: So we're not afraid to be critical about the roots of the international development sector, also about the way the system works today.
But also, at the same time, we're very engaged.
Melissa: The U.N.
Sustainable Development Goals provide a really important set of directions, a set of guidelines for all of humanity.
Saurabh: There are many challenges facing humanity -
[Montage of video clips showing deforestation, an indigenous tribes person, a flooded urban area and a homeless person in a city at night pushing their belongings in a shopping cart as Saurabh continues to speak]
ecological collapse that we are dealing with in many forms, biodiversity losses, climate disruptions all around the place, rampant inequality and poverty continuing to dominate.
We have to understand how they come about.
Melissa: Our futures depend on living well and thriving on a planet that's under pressure,
[Montage of video clips showing an aerial shot of a gas-fired power station and wind turbines on a large hillside as Melissa continues to speak]
and on fostering more forms of development that are more open, more inclusive and more equitable.
And that's what really runs through all of our research.
Our research is always engaged with policymakers and practitioners because we seek to make a difference.
Saurabh: So this is not something that is coming at the end of the pipe.
This is starting right from the first few months of the research project where we meet up with policymakers and civil society practitioners, sometimes business practitioners, in order to refine what we are going to do.
Lyndsay: And then we bring that work back into the classroom.
So we'll bring those practical examples of how we've worked with the U.N., how we work with non-governmental organisations on developing issues
Melissa: … that everybody teaching is involved in research.
They are at the cutting edge of their own research programs and projects so that what goes on in the classroom
[Montage of video clips showing students and a lecturer working through ideas on post-it notes as Melissa continues to speak]
and in seminars is directly shaped by front line research work.
Lyndsay: So in recent years I have, for example, been advisor to the House of Commons.
They were doing an inquiry into the UK's work internationally to prevent violence against women.
Andy: Here in the Business School we've collaborated with others in the university in a number of respects.
One example is where I worked with the Medical School on a neglected tropical disease in Ethiopia and also alongside an Ethiopian researcher.
Lyndsay: So at Sussex, in order for our students really to make a difference in international development, we feel it's really critical to help them to develop self-awareness about who they are
[Video clip shown of a student and lecturer engaging in conversation as Lyndsay continues to speak]
and their position in the world.
Saurabh: Great things are done by students and each one of them is a hero in that sense, bringing about the changes that we all need to see in the world.
Lyndsay: I have students that have gone on, for example, to work for the Swedish Embassy on gender and conflict in Mozambique.
Melissa: Amongst our alumni the (former) President of Costa Rica, who talks about his experiences at Sussex and the Institute as having absolutely shaped the way he both came to power and has sought to lead the world on climate and environmental justice.
Andy: Some of our students have succeeded in the Overseas Development Institute Fellowship Scheme which places Master's graduates for two years in a position of significant responsibility in the government of a developing country.
Melissa: And it's so exciting to see the multiple ways in which those who have learned with us then go on to change the world.
[On screen text as music fades - ‘Find out more, University of Sussex and Institute of Development Studies logo, sussex.ac.uk]
We’re proud of our performance in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF) – 89% of research activity submitted was categorised as either ‘world-leading’ (40.6%) or ‘internationally excellent’ (48.4%).
See our REF 2021 results, learn the basics and discover our stories.
Sussex researchers demonstrate how quantum bits can directly transfer between microchips.
Professor Dave Goulson’s research into the impact of pesticides on bumblebees has been widely cited in the media, and has led governments to take action to better protect insects.
Research at Sussex is our new fortnightly newsletter, delivering the latest research news, insights, and discoveries straight to your inbox.
Sign up
11 August 2025
University of Sussex PhD teams up with Indigenous Wampís to co-create album funding rainforest protection.
1 August 2025
Professor Elizabeth David-Barrett has been appointed Director of the Governance & Integrity Anti-Corruption Evidence (GI ACE) programme,...
30 July 2025
Support our Junior Research Associates projects!
See all news
Research development enquiries: researchexternal@sussex.ac.uk
Research impact enquiries: rqi@sussex.ac.uk
Research governance enquiries: rgoffice@sussex.ac.uk
Doctoral study enquiries: doctoralschool@sussex.ac.uk
Undergraduate research enquiries : undergraduate-research@sussex.ac.uk
General press enquiries: press@sussex.ac.uk
Find out about Research and Innovation
See news, features and events

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate:
Our collaborations with businesses, entrepreneurs and community organisations are creating new knowledge and innovative solutions to real-world problems.
Our research, consultancy, technology and training mean we’re helping all kinds of people and organisations to achieve their goals.
If you have any queries, email collaborate@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni:
As a former student, you can play an important part in shaping the future of your University.
Keep in touch, get involved and enjoy the rewards of being part of a 200,000-strong global alumni network, for whom intellectual curiosity lasts a lifetime.
The University of Sussex magazine
Explore the science of consciousness, discover research on ecoacoustics and children’s wellbeing.
Meet alumni at the forefront of contemporary art and international affairs.
Plus expert opinion, alumni news...
and much more
Join our professional networking and mentoring platform for alumni and students.
Login or Register
We're collecting and sharing memories of Sussex life over the years.
Subscribe to our email newsletter
27 August 2025
Mentee Angus joined the mentoring programme to pursue his dream of becoming an author.
Read about his mentoring experience with author Lisa.
Wednesday 10 September from 10:00 until 18:00
University of Sussex Campus
This workshop will explore the relationship between the emergent properties of conscious subjects and the material structures and interactions from...
Friday 19 September from 11:30 until 15:30
We are delighted to welcome back all alumni who studied with us in the 1960s and 1970s for a very special reunion lunch on the Sussex Campus.
See all news and events
Tweets by sussex_alumni
Development and Alumni Relations enquiries: +44 (0)1273 678258 alumni@sussex.ac.uk
Development and Alumni Relations Communications, Engagement and Advancement Division University of Sussex Falmer Brighton United Kingdom BN1 9RH
Follow us on Facebook, X and Instagram:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate/open-days:
Our Open Days are the best way to get a taste of life at Sussex.
You’ll learn more about our courses, have the opportunity to chat to current students and meet the academics you’ll be learning from.
Our next Open Days will run on the following dates:
The day will be begin at 9.30am, when registration opens, and will run until 4.30pm.
At an Open Day you can:
Our Open Days run from 9:30am to 4.30pm.
We will send you a programme of the day’s events in the weeks leading up to the Open Day to help you plan and prioritise the events that interest you the most.
Most talks last around 40 minutes and you can join as many on the day as you’d like.
You can also get help from our student ambassadors around campus.
Our campus is well connected by public transport, including buses and trains.
If you choose to travel to our Open Days by public transport, we’ll plant a tree as part of our sustainability mission.
If you’re driving, you can use parking spaces on campus.
Parking is limited, so you’ll need to let us know if you need a space when booking your Open Day place.
We will send you a permit in advance, on a first-come, first-served basis.
If you’d like to visit Brighton after the event, you can leave your car on campus for the day (vehicles are left the owner’s risk).
Find out more about how to get to campus .
We want to make sure everyone can visit us at an Open Day and get a taste for life at Sussex.
That’s why we’re offering to help with the cost of travel for you and a guest if you meet our eligibility criteria.
Depending on where you live you can claim between £25 to £75.
See our full terms and conditions and how to claim your travel costs payment .
Book an open day place
We’re delighted to team up with South Downs Trust on our Your Root to Sussex project to plant a tree for each student who travels to our Autumn Open Days in 2025 by public transport.
How to get involved:
We pride ourselves on our mission of becoming one of the most sustainable universities in the world.
We’d love you to become part of our story by reducing your carbon emissions and your environmental impact when visiting us at our Autumn Open Day in 2025.
Open Days can be busy events.
We want your visit to be safe and enjoyable, so here is some accessibility information to help you prepare for your visit.
You can also visit the Student Centre and speak with members of the Student Support Unit throughout the day to hear about the information and support available to students.
When you book your place you can let us know your access requirements, including parking.
When you arrive on campus you will need to display your blue badge.
You will then be directed to one of our disabled parking spaces, which will be allocated on a first come first served basis on the day.
All rooms and lecture theatres used on Open Days have wheelchair access.
There are accessible toilets available from all of our locations on-campus.
All of our lecture theatres and rooms have a floor plan with exit routes and assistance points.
If you have any questions about the routes you can ask the member of staff and they will be happy to help.
To find out about accessible campus tours, head to the campus tour departure point and a member of staff or student ambassador will be happy to help.
Guide dogs and assistance dogs are welcome on campus.
Our campus has lots of open space where you can get away from the crowds.
At every Open Day there will be an allocated quiet room if you need to take some time out.
Just check the event programme for details.
There are many reasons to make Sussex your first choice:
Explore more reasons to choose Sussex
If you're gonna love me now, you're gonna love me tomorrow.
The best thing about Sussex is you will find someone like you.
Take a chance, get involved.
When you see the number of societies available.
You'll be shocked.
I made all my friends through salsa.
Classic Brighton!
Everyone's here to make the world a better place.
University is meant to be a home.
That's what Sussex is for me.
My goodness!
Someone help me.
Find out details of our in-person and online campus tours.
Find out more about our housing options.
Take a 360 degree tour of our beautiful campus.
study@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 876787

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/postgraduate/masters-open-days:
Register for a place on a campus Masters Open Day to learn all about postgraduate study and life at Sussex.
Our next in-person Masters Open Day will take place in March 2026.
We’ll have more details nearer the time, including when it will take place and programme information.
Register for updates and we’ll let you know when you can book a place.
In the meantime, you can explore other ways of visiting in-person or online .
Whether you have a clearly defined career path in mind, or are still thinking about your options, a Masters could get you to where you want to be.
Doing a Masters level degree is a great way to build new skills, boost your career prospects, and dive deeper into a subject you love—or even try something completely new.
Come along to a Masters Open Day, where you’ll get to meet our teaching and support staff, explore our beautiful Falmer campus and see why studying at Sussex could be your next step.
Take a look at our online events .
During the event you’ll be able to:
pg.enquiries@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 876787

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs:
Join the University of Sussex – a highly-ranked, research-led UK university – and help us change things.
You can search for academic and professional services job vacancies, find out how to apply and get information on our selection process.
Browse our current live vacancies across academic and professional services roles.
You can also sign up for alerts about posts related to your career or expertise.
Benefits for staff, facilities for your wellbeing and opportunities for development.
The steps you need to take to make an application for a job at Sussex.
How we pick people to be interviewed for a job and what happens next.
What to prepare and the paperwork to complete if you’re successful.
We work closely with other public sector organisations in the city to improve the delivery of public services across Brighton & Hove.
We work with East Sussex Fire and Rescue, Sussex Police, Brighton and Hove Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) and Brighton & Hove City Council as part of the EquIP partnership of public sector organisations in the city.
Check other job opportunities at these public sector organisations:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/az:
The A to Z index provides a comprehensive listing of all websites and key documents published by the University of Sussex.
Navigate by selecting the initial letter of the resource you're looking for.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/profiles:
Search field: Surname First name Post Department name Location on campus Telephone extension
Search for:
If you are looking for people based on their area of research or expertise, then please use our research expertise directory .
This directory holds contact details for all staff at the University of Sussex.
If you need to find a student email address, you can do this from any computer on campus, via the student directory .
To search the directory:
Location on campus refers to a member of staff's nominal physical location on the University campus.
Department refers to the academic or administrative department in which they work.
The search mechanism automatically expands truncated searches.
For instance, searching the surname field for John will return details of people with the surname John , Johnson and Johnston .
T : 01273 606755 F : 01273 678335

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website:
Find out how the University of Sussex website operates and what happens in the background while you're using it.
Discover how we use your information and what cookies we run on our site.
Find out how to navigate our website and see our accessibility statement.
Read our disclaimer for the University of Sussex website.
Get in touch if you have any questions about our website.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Our undergraduate courses are designed to broaden your horizons and give you the skills and experience you need to take you in any direction you choose.
At Sussex, we want you to succeed.
That's why we offer a variety of Foundation Year courses to help you continue with undergraduate study.
We welcome applications from students from across the globe with a wide range of backgrounds and experiences.
Our International Foundation Year is for you if you're an international student and do not meet the direct entry requirements for undergraduate study.
The course offers a combination of English language and study skills training.
At the International Study Centre, we also offer an International Year One with progression to Year 2 of your chosen undergraduate degree.
As a student on the BMBS in Medicine, you are taught at Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS).
BSMS is a partnership between the Universities of Sussex and Brighton and NHS trusts across the Sussex and Surrey regions.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/subjects/foundation-years/undergraduate:
If you don’t have the grades for your chosen undergraduate course, you’re not sure which subject you’d like to take, or you’re returning to study after some time away, you may want to consider an integrated foundation year.
Successfully completing this additional year not only guarantees your place on your choice of a range of linked courses, but also that you’ll be better prepared for university study.
The Foundation Year may be for you, if you:
You’ll learn essential skills and knowledge and also benefit from:
You can study a Foundation Year at Sussex in the following subject areas:
I think we were quite similar when we came to Sussex.
I applied for the Physics BSc and I didn’t do well enough in my A-levels.
No, me neither!
I got offered a Foundation Year because, like you, I applied for the BSc but I had never heard of a Foundation Year.
When they offered it to me I thought, “Great!
I can go to uni with a B and two Cs."
A-levels was not my time at all.
It wasn’t mine either!
I chose the Foundation Year because I felt like I didn’t have the basic knowledge that I needed to start a degree.
Sussex really set me up for that with the Foundation Year.
During A-levels I just wasn’t getting it and I wasn’t sure why.
I kept practising and I even had a private tutor and he said “You have the knowledge but you can’t seem to apply it when it comes to an exam.”
I think we both suffer from stress during exams.
We are definitely given a lot of support at Sussex.
Especially from our Academic Adviser.
Jackie has been great, hasn’t she?!
She just listens.
I know when I say some things it can be stupid and having her in the Foundation Year to support me gave me a lot of confidence.
She said, “The grades you are getting right now are good enough to go onto a Masters.”
“Oh!
I’m actually quite good at this!”
Yes, I feel much more confident.
Both of us were struggling and now we are getting firsts.
It wasn’t just Jackie, it was also the campus, it’s so beautiful.
Especially in the summer.
It always gets my mood up.
And you can go just 10 minutes out and you’re here.
At this beach.
This is a lovely place to come, especially if you’re stressed from exams.
There are also plenty of places on campus where you can go and relax.
It’s so homely and welcoming.
I just had a gut feeling.
Weird as that sounds I felt, “This is the place where I will be more confident and find myself.
I don’t want to be that shy person that was struggling so much at A-levels.”
Look at me now!
I can’t stop speaking!
If you’re an international student from outside the EU and your first language isn’t English, you may want to consider our International Foundation Year instead.
The course may be for you if:
If you successfully complete your Foundation Year, you'll be able to progress on to a range of related (linked) subjects.
You’ll find details of your choice of progression routes on our Foundation Year course pages .
You will move into Year 1 (just as completing Year 1 leads into Year 2, and so on).
Many of our students find a Foundation Year is a great way to settle into University life and begin their undergraduate studies.
Hear from some of our Foundation Year students below.
See more from our students
Hey guys, my name is Benita, and I'm currently a second year student at the University of Sussex.
I also did a Foundation Year in Business Management Economics.
Outside of studies, I'm also a dancer.
I enjoy content creating and I'm also a Christian.
This video is going to take you pretty much through my experiences at Sussex and also some advice that I'd like to give to you.
I actually heard about Sussex on Results Day as I had to go through clearing since I didn't get the grades I needed to actually go straight through to my course.
And the main reason why I came to Sussex was they offered me the chance to do a Business Foundation year.
So I happily took on the offer.
Starting university for me was quite nerve wracking for two main reasons.
First one being the fact that I didn't know anyone at all from my school who was going to be coming to Sussex University.
And also the fact that I was moving away from home.
Home for me was London, and it was quite different to Brighton.
But eventually I adjusted to the culture and I obviously found friends and made friends who supported me throughout the journey.
If I could say one thing I enjoyed the most about doing the Foundation Year in Business was being able to learn about all areas.
So that includes Marketing, Finance, Economics and Management.
Pretty much everything about Business, as I wasn't too sure at that point in time what I wanted to go ahead.
So I would definitely recommend anyone if you're not sure about which areas of Business you want to go into.
Or if you just want to learn more about it before actually going to do your degree, then I would highly recommend doing a Foundation Year.
During my time with Sussex, I can definitely say I've grown both personally and professionally and this is obviously through taking a risk and going outside my comfort zone and also taking part in things such as society committees, volunteering for corporations that are part of the university such as Into-University and also take on part time jobs as well.
So that whole experience has definitely helped me, not just professionally, but also personally and also with my confidence.
One thing I'm definitely looking forward to regarding the rest of my university journey is having more opportunities to take part in events and also being a part of the university student community, such as doing more volunteering and potentially also being a rep for my course as well.
And lastly, if I was to give any advice.
First thing is not to be worried about not having friends, as I was.
There are so many opportunities and events that you can make the most of, such as Freshers Fair, society events and also university events where you can meet new people and make friends during your university journey.
And that's pretty much everything for this video.
I do hope you found it valuable and useful.
I'm wishing you all the best with results and university search.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-university:
From helping you decide if university is for you, to tips for choosing a course – if you’re a student thinking about university, a parent or carer of someone applying, or a teacher looking for information about higher education for pupils, we’re here to guide you.
Discover if university is the right path for you.
Read our top tips for deciding what to study at university.
Learn about types of undergraduate courses and how they’re structured.
If you don’t have the grades for your chosen course or you’re not sure which subject you’d like to take, consider an integrated foundation year.
Find out about the support we offer students from various backgrounds to help them get to university.
Speak to our student ambassadors to learn about student life, living on campus and studying for a degree.
Choose Sussex and we won’t just provide you with an excellent education in an inclusive and vibrant community.
We’ll celebrate your individuality and feed your imagination.
Learn why studying at Sussex could help you to flourish .
Explore ways of supporting a student applying to university.
Access our presentations, resources and higher education guides.
Could there be a better place to be a student than our beautiful campus?
Nestled in the South Downs National Park, we're just nine minutes from one of the UK's most iconic cities.
To get a picture of life on our campus and the excitement of being in the city of Brighton, take our virtual tour.
Begin your 360° journey .
See our step-by-step guide so you’re fully prepared for making your UCAS application.
Read our tips for how to plan and structure your personal statement.
For general queries, email study@sussex.ac.uk .
You can also register for updates about Sussex.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/choose-sussex:
Make Sussex your home, with courses, people and a city to inspire you.
Discover what makes studying here special.
[Intro MUSIC: Lively percussive beats]
[A montage of video footage showing the University of Sussex campus and students using the study and leisure facilities]
[TITLE CARD ’What will you do?
With US’]
[Percussive musical sound to indicate an Open Day game’s wheel spinning]
[Video footage of an Open Day with student ambassadors leading tours around the campus, showing accommodation, lecture theatres, sports facilities and lessons happening in a variety of settings]
[Video footage of Brighton, University of Sussex students graduating and drone footage of the campus]
[END CARD.
’Discover With US’]
We know that choosing a university is an exciting decision.
It’s important to find somewhere you’re excited to move to, a place to feel at home, where you’ll thrive both academically and personally.
Choose Sussex and we won’t just provide you with an excellent education in an inclusive and vibrant community, we’ll also celebrate your individuality, feed your imagination and encourage you to follow your passions.
With over 200 courses and Brighton on your doorstep, choosing Sussex in Clearing could be one of the best decisions you’ll ever make.
You can explore our Clearing courses now, as well as sign up for exclusive Clearing updates and practical advice to guide you through Results Day.
Sign up for Clearing updates .
We were awarded first place in two categories in the 2025 What Uni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs) .
We claimed top spot in both the International and Student Life categories, in the South East region.
Read more about the awards .
Choose Sussex and you can experience our stimulating courses, beautiful campus and the city of Brighton.
Whatever your hopes for the future, we’ll provide the support to help you get there.
We have more than 200 undergraduate degrees in a wide range of subject areas.
Explore our courses
You can experience a multi-disciplinary environment, with the opportunity to try other subjects or even change course.
You’ll be taught by academics whose research is pursuing answers to some of the most important issues facing the world – including innovations in areas like quantum technology and artificial intelligence.
Hear from our students and alumni to learn more about what life at Sussex is like.
We’re ranked 16th in the UK for employment outcomes (out of 90 Higher Education institutions) in the QS World University Rankings 2025 .
Our award-winning Careers and Entrepreneurship team (winners of the AGCAS Supporting Student/Graduate Employability Award 2024 ) will support you with personalised advice, placement and internship support, as well as practical CV advice and on campus jobs.
Whatever your ambitions, we’re here to help you achieve them, during your time with us and for up to three years after you graduate.
You’ll have opportunities to:
Our unique Spirit of Sussex Award allows you to make the most of your Sussex experience and build a brilliant CV alongside your degree, so you can demonstrate your value to future employers.
Living on our beautiful green campus – the only university in a national park – you’ll be just a few minutes’ walk away from the library, lecture theatres, shops, cafés and bars.
And if you love the great outdoors, take a short walk from campus and you’re in the stunning South Downs.
explore our campus
Joining a student-led club or society is a fun way to meet new people and there are over 180 to choose from.
So, whether you’re a sports lover, gamer or Bake Off fan, there’s something for everyone .
You’ll also find plenty of facilities on campus, including two sports centres, a pharmacy and a supermarket.
Plus you can buy food from across the world at our cafés, shops and weekly street food market.
We’re just nine minutes from the lively seaside city of Brighton and Hove.
Brighton is a captivating city.
It’s a place where being yourself is championed and having fun is unavoidable.
The city is also famous for its grand Royal Pavilion, its vibrant nightlife and its iconic pebble beach.
One of Time Out’s 50 best cities in the world in 2025 , you’ll never be short of something to do.
explore our city
Here are just some of the exciting events that take place throughout the year:
Whatever your background, we can offer you the support to flourish with us and get the most out of your experience.
Home undergraduate students might be eligible for the Sussex Bursary to help with the rent for your University accommodation.
Learn more about living costs at Sussex and see our tips for saving money and budgeting for student life .
If you’re an undergraduate student starting at Sussex in September 2025, you could be eligible for a £1,000 bursary to help with on-campus living costs.
Learn more about the housing bursary .
Learn about all the housing options we have for differing budgets and needs.
Find out how our support services can make your move to student life an exciting one.
You’re guaranteed university-managed accommodation during your first year if you firmly accept an offer of a place from us and submit an online housing application by 31 July .
Find out more about guaranteed housing .
We’re in the top 25 in the UK for International Outlook ( Times Higher World University Rankings 2025 ).
There are more than 150 nationalities studying at Sussex and a third of our students come from outside the UK, which means there are lots of chances to meet people from all over the world.
With our Language Café, Buddy Scheme and opportunities to study abroad , you can explore new cultures and meet others who share your interests.
Talk to our students through Unibuddy .
If you’re thinking about choosing Sussex, sign up to get updates from us.
We’ll be in touch to let you know about upcoming events like Open Days, where you can learn more about studying and life at Sussex.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/clearing:
With over 200 courses, guaranteed accommodation, an award-winning careers and employability service and Brighton as your playground, choosing Sussex in Clearing could be one of the best decisions you’ll ever make.
View our Clearing vacancies for UK students and international students .
If you’ve taken A-levels*, for most courses we're normally looking for:
Grade requirements may be lower in some cases, and some courses may also have subject-specific requirements.
Call us now on +44 (0)1273 007820 .
*or equivalent qualifications - see our course pages.
Speak to our Admissions team on +44 (0)1273 007820 from 8am on Thursday 14 August.
Our lines are open:
From Monday 18 August you can call us between 9am and 5pm.
Secure your place at Sussex through Clearing and we’ll guarantee you accommodation so you can focus on the exciting stuff!
Think connecting with your housemates, planning your Welcome Week, and exploring everything Brighton has to offer.
You will be guaranteed accommodation if you accept a place within 48 hours of receiving your offer and apply for housing by 5pm on Thursday 28 August.
If you join Sussex in September 2025 through Clearing, you could be eligible for a £1,000 bursary to help with on-campus living costs.
From leafy views to lively flats, Sussex has a wide range of accommodation – all designed with you in mind.
Your perfect home away from home is waiting to be discovered.
In fact, many of our students love campus life so much, they choose to stay in university accommodation through their second, third, and even fourth year!
Find out about the Clearing process
See our tips for applying for a place at university through Clearing
Follow our advice for applying through Clearing as an international student
Find your course
Explore our campus
Nestled in the South Downs National Park, we’re just nine minutes from one of the UK’s most iconic cities and the sea.
Begin your 360° journey
Get a taste of life at Sussex by exploring our campus on a guided tour.
Book a campus tour
If plans for applying to your chosen university change, don't panic.
Read some of our students' stories about how they found the Clearing experience and how they secured a place at Sussex.
You can also contact our Housing team: housing@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/applicant:
Whether you’ve applied for an Undergraduate, Masters or PhD course with us, our Applicant Hubs will give you an idea of what life studying at Sussex is like.
Find out more about essentials like accommodation and funding, and see how to make changes to your application.
Find our everything you need to know as an undergraduate applicant, including making changes to your UCAS application.
See all the information we have for applicants to our Masters courses and make changes to your application if you need to.
Get the information you need as a PhD applicant.
If you’ve applied to study with us and have a question related to your application, get in touch:
You can also learn about our feedback, appeals and complaints procedures .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/access:
Find out how we're improving access to higher education through our Sussex Inspires programme.
Explore our advice and guidance on studying at university.
The University of Sussex Inspires programme offers students support, guidance and experiences to help navigate their post-16 education options.
It aims to help you make more informed choices about your future, and the steps you need to take to get there.
Find out more about the programme and what you 're eligible for .
Applications for the Sussex Inspires programme are now open.
If you have questions about the programme, or want to speak to someone in the Access team, email inspires@sussex.ac.uk .
Find out if studying at university is the right choice for you.
Understand what contextual offers are and whether they apply to you.
Follow our advice for choosing what to study.
Learn how to apply for an undergraduate course at Sussex.
Find out about tuition fees and living costs.
Read our tips for writing a personal statement.
Explore student life at Sussex.
Find out what you can do with your degree after university.
We run a range of events and programmes for partner schools, to support learners who are under-represented in Higher Education.
Find out more about these pre-16 and post-16 events .
If you have any queries, email accessprogramme@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-at-sussex/our-programs/summer-school:
Explore our modules for our undergraduate or physics summer schools.
Be inspired by renowned lecturers.
Earn credits to transfer back to your home institution while studying on our beautiful campus.
Study for three or six weeks, choosing modules designed and delivered by Sussex faculty.
Gain expert knowledge in the field of physics and improve your academic prospects.
Discover more about Brighton, life on campus and the Summer Social Programme.
Find out how to apply to Sussex Summer School: entry requirements, visas and fees.
Summer School students will be eligible to receive the Sussex Alumni Scholarship - a £3,000 fee waiver for previous Sussex students choosing to return to study a Master's degree .
If you are studying at Sussex for a summer and have questions, email summer@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/masters/courses:
A Masters qualification enhances both your personal and professional development.
It gives you the opportunity to explore a subject in greater depth, and could give you the edge in a competitive jobs market.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/masters/apply:
We are looking for ambitious, enthusiastic and motivated students.
You’ll have the passion to succeed, the independence to take on your own projects, and the ability to go above and beyond.
Choose from more than 200 Masters degrees, postgraduate diplomas, and PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate in Education) courses .
We offer full- and part-time courses and some courses include an integrated placement year.
If you are an international student with a student visa (students outside the UK), you can only study Masters courses full-time.
Most applications for Masters courses starting in September 2025 are made directly to Sussex through our application portal .
apply now
Read our short guide for using the application portal .
A small number of postgraduate courses follow a different application route.
These are:
If you’re applying to study a course in medicine, you must apply to Brighton and Sussex Medical School via the University of Brighton .
If you’re applying for the NHS-funded Psychology courses, you must apply through NHS Jobs .
For postgraduate primary, secondary and School Choice courses, you should apply through GOV.UK Postgraduate Teacher Training .
If you’re applying for the Social Work MA or PGDip you must apply through UCAS Undergraduate .
For our online courses you should follow the applying link on the relevant course entry .
To find the specific entry requirements for your course, see our Masters courses .
You also need to meet our general entry requirement: at least an upper second-class (2:1) or lower second-class (2:2) undergraduate honours degree (or equivalent) depending on the course you are applying for.
If you’re an international student, you need to meet our English language requirements , or successfully complete our pre-sessional English course .
Check our entry requirements for UK applicants and entry requirements for international applicants .
If you need a visa to study in the UK , we provide you with a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
You can view and download your CAS statement through the postgraduate application system.
Pre-Masters programmes are designed to improve your English language level, study skills and academic knowledge ahead of postgraduate study.
Find out more .
We begin to consider applications in late November for entry to Sussex the following September.
Courses can be in high demand, so we recommend that you apply as early as possible.
We do have maximum capacities for subjects and will close courses to new applications once they are full.
The latest you should apply would normally be:
High demand courses may close much earlier than the above deadlines, so you should apply as soon as you can.
There are also some courses with earlier deadlines.
Check our Masters courses for specific deadlines.
You must also submit your application earlier if you apply:
The deadlines are to make sure that, after receiving any offer, there is enough time for you to arrive for induction and the start of teaching.
The earlier application deadline for international students is to allow additional time to complete the visa application process and, if required for the course, to obtain clearance by the UK Government’s Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS).
Find out about ATAS clearance on the Student Hub .
You may be eligible for a Masters scholarships or a Postgraduate Masters Loan to fund your studies.
If your application is successful, you have your fee status assessed .
If your fee status is unclear, we’ll ask you to complete a questionnaire , and if you disagree with the outcome of your fee status assessment, you can appeal .
If you are a self-funded international student starting a Masters course, you are required to pay a tuition fee deposit.
Check our Masters courses to see tuition fees .
Pre-application enquiries: pg.enquiries@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 876787
Post-application enquiries: pg.applicants@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 877773

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/masters-applicant:
Make changes to your Masters application, check your fee status and find out about applying for a student visa.
If you’ve not submitted your application yet, read our guide for applying to a Masters course at Sussex and check you’ve covered everything.
Let us know if you want to make a change to your Masters application, including deferring your place or changing your course.
Find out what to do when you receive an offer, including accepting your place.
See what tuition fees you need to pay based on your fee status and course you’re studying.
Check how to qualify for guaranteed accommodation on campus.
If you have a question about your application to a Masters course with us, get in touch with our team .
A sunny seaside city famous for its sense of inclusivity – there aren’t many better places to be a student than Brighton.
Dynamic and cosmopolitan, it’s a place where you can express yourself and be who you want to be, all just a few minutes from our campus.
Explore life in Brighton .
If you’re an international student, find out what you need to do to apply for a student visa.
Some of our science or engineering-based courses require ATAS clearance.
Find out how to apply.
Get to know other offer-holders by joining a community of other students who plan to study at the University of Sussex this September.
Find out more and join your Unibuddy community .
If you have questions about your application, get in touch using our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/degrees:
Sussex is the ideal place for PhD researchers seeking and contributing to global knowledge in the arts and humanities, the sciences and the social sciences.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/guide-phd-study:
A PhD is a research degree where you spend a significant amount of time investigating and analysing your chosen topic.
Find out who will supervise you and the typical structure of a PhD at Sussex.
If you choose an MPhil, you might be able to change to a PhD during your studies.
You are matched with two supervisors or a supervisory team experienced in the field of your research interests.
They help you to refine your research project and produce a realistic research plan.
You need to work well independently to complete a PhD, as your supervisors will not tell you exactly what to read or how to design and carry out work on your thesis.
Search for faculty members on our PhD prospectus
In your first year, after your induction and meetings with your supervisors, you write a detailed research plan.
For some research projects, you may need to gain ethical approval before any fieldwork or data collection can start.
Your supervisor will advise you on this.
Each year you submit a report outlining your progess to your supervisors.
This is called the annual review.
In your report, you need to show a suitable amount of progression in order to continue with your PhD.
Your supervisors also write a report on your progress.
You need to write up your research in a thesis.
After your third year (if you are doing a full-time PhD), you may be able to apply for a writing-up year.
You can only apply for a writing-up year if you have finished conducting your formal research and your supervisors agree to this.
This is called pre-submission status and you need to pay a reduced fee.
If you have pre-submission status, you can spend an extra year writing up your research.
You submit the thesis to be reviewed by two examiners with expertise in your area of research.
Usually, your work is reviewed by one University of Sussex examiner and one external examiner.
After the examiners have reviewed your written thesis, you have a viva (oral exam).
During the viva, the examiners ask you questions about your research.
After the viva, the examiners may ask you to make some changes to your thesis (known as corrections).
You must make these corrections before you can graduate.
When you've passed your viva and made any corrections to your PhD thesis, you are awarded with the degree title Doctor of Philosophy.
If you are an international student, you can apply for a Graduate route visa after you have successfully completed your studies to allow you to look for and start work in the UK.
The majority of our PhD degrees can be studied part time.
See our PhD prospectus to find out if we offer your PhD part-time
You have full access to campus facilities, although we don’t offer University-managed accommodation to part-time students.
Find out more about fees for PhD students
If you’re a PhD candidate with a job in your own country and you can’t attend full time in the UK for the whole period of study, you may be able to register as an independent distant student.
If you are an international student you can apply for a Graduate route visa after you have successfully completed your studies to allow you to look for and start work in the UK

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/doctoral:
Make discoveries, improve lives and change things for the better.
As a PhD student at Sussex, you’ll be supported throughout your studies by the Sussex Researcher School (SRS).
You’ll join a community of over 1,300 postgraduate researchers (PGRs) from all over the world – making Sussex the perfect place to start your research career.
Learn about the support available throughout your PhD
Find out how our partnerships can help your research
Discover what funding is available
Find out what funding is available
Sussex Researcher School researcher-school@sussex.ac.uk 01273 877767

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/apply:
We are looking for ambitious, talented and motivated students.
You'll have the passion to make new discoveries, the drive to test new theories, and the willingness to go above and beyond.
To find out more about our degrees see our PhD degrees .
You apply using our postgraduate application system.
Sussex is the perfect place to find a postgraduate research course that allows you to follow your passion and develop your research interests.
We offer:
Distance learning may be available for some PhD courses.
Before applying, you should check whether this mode of attendance is supported for the PhD you wish to undertake with the relevant School.
Find out more about our PhD degrees
Our specific entry requirements are listed with each PhD degree .
You also need to meet our general entry requirements, usually an upper second-class undergraduate honours degree (2:1) or equivalent international qualification.
You may also be required to have a Masters qualification.
If you are an international student, you need to meet our English language requirements , or successfully complete our Pre-sessional English course .
You may also be asked to attend an interview.
Find out more about our entry requirements for UK applicants
Find out more about our entry requirements for international applicants
If you apply for one of our funded projects or to a research centre or group you will normally be asked to provide a statement explaining your suitablility for working in that area.
If you wish to propose your own area of research, you need to decide on a research topic and you will normally be expected to write a research proposal.
Some areas may only require a summary of academic interests and they will use this to match you to potential supervisors.
Before applying check the requirements for your subject area .
If you are joining a funded project at Sussex, you will already have a supervisor allocated to you.
If you are proposing your own research topic , you can find a supervisor to support and advise you.
If you think you have found a potential supervisor who matches your research area, check their online profile for indications of their doctoral supervision capacity.
If they are open to doctoral applications, you can contact them to check their availability for supervising you
You can either ask a member of our faculty to be your supervisor if you think they have the expertise to support you or we will match you with a supervisor during the assessment of your application.
If you ask to be supervised by a particular member of faculty, this will be considered but not all such requests can be accommodated.
You apply directly to Sussex using our postgraduate application system .
You can apply for up to three postgraduate courses.
If you are applying for more than one degree, you must submit a research proposal/statement specific to each area of study you apply for.
You must submit the following documents when you apply:
Follow our tips for applying to Sussex .
Find out about our admissions statement of intent .
You can apply all year round for research degrees starting in September, January and May.
The recommended deadline for applications are:
International applicants: Three months before course start date Home/EU applicants: One month before course start date.
PhD applications received after these deadlines may be considered, but we cannot guarantee you will be able to commence your studies at your requested entry point.
Where you are applying for funding or scholarships, check the deadlines for your application.
In some cases, you may need to have an offer from us before you can apply for funding.
We have a number of PhD funding and scholarship opportunities.
If your application is successful, you will have your fee status assessed .
If your fee status is unclear, we will ask you to complete a questionnaire .
If you disagree with the outcome of your fee status assessment, you can appeal .
Fees information is listed with each PhD degree .
We will notify you through our postgraduate application system if we decide to offer you a place .
Your offer may include conditions – for example, completing your undergraduate or Masters degree with a certain grade or meeting our English language requirements .
If you are an international student studying a certain science- or engineering-based course you must apply for Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) clearance after you receive your offer.
If you decide to accept our offer, you can notify us using the postgraduate application system .
You can still accept your offer even if you have not yet secured funding.
However, you should have funding in place when you start at Sussex.
If your offer is unconditional, we may still need to verify your qualifications .
If your offer is conditional, you should send in your results by email as soon as they are available, so that your place can be confirmed.
If you are unable to take up your place, you can request to defer your entry to another available entry point (up to a maximum of 12 months).
If your application is unsuccessful and you are not sure why, you can request feedback .
You will be sent information about joining us in the months before you start your research.
For most students, the registration process is completed online.
Registration opens in:
If you are an international student and you need a visa to study in the UK , you complete most of the registration process online.
To register, you need to attend in person, so we can take a copy of your passport and visa.
Postgraduate Admissions Office phd.applicants@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 877773

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/contactus:
University of Sussex Sussex House Brighton BN1 9RH United Kingdom
+44 (0)1273 606755
information@sussex.ac.uk
Internal: ext 3333
External: +44 (0)1273 873333
Internal: ext 8234
External: +44 (0)1273 678234
If you are thinking about applying to Sussex
Telephone: +44 (0)1273 876787
If you have already applied and have a question
Admissions Office Sussex House University of Sussex Brighton BN1 9RH
+44 (0)1273 678416
ug.applicants@sussex.ac.uk
+44 (0)1273 877773
pg.applicants@sussex.ac.uk
phd.applicants@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/register:
Thanks for your interest in the University of Sussex.
So we can provide you with the right information, including details of open days and other events, tell us more about yourself.
You haven't ticked the box which allows us to e-mail you.
We won't be able to provide you information including Open days and other events.
Your personal data is processed by the University of Sussex and stored by ‘Campus Management’ (on the University’s behalf) in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation; further detail about the University’s processing activities in relation to personal data can be found in our privacy notice .
You can also view Campus Management’s privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/prospectus:
Our online prospectus provides the most up-to-date information on the range of courses we offer.
To order a print version, complete our online form.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/ask:
* denotes a required field
Your personal data is processed by the University of Sussex and stored by ‘Anthology’ (on the University’s behalf) in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation; further detail about the University’s processing activities in relation to personal data can be found in our privacy notice .
You can also view Anthology’s privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/unibuddy:
Drop-in and chat to Sussex students online via the UniBuddy chat platform.
Ask our panel of current students why they chose Sussex, what it’s like to live and study on campus, what our students love about the Sussex community or how they socialise on campus and in Brighton.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us:
Explore all Sussex has to offer with our range of on-campus and online Open Days, events and campus tours.
Learn more about our courses and chat to current students.
Get a taste of life at Sussex if you're an applicant or are thinking about applying to study with us.
Find out more about studying a Masters or explore our events.
Discover what Postgraduate study is like.
Help your students make decisions about university through our higher education talks, workshops, tours and masterclasses.
Meet us online or in person and find out how to become a teacher.
If you can't make it to one of our Open Days or events, you can still visit our campus in person or online.
Find out more about campus tours .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/campus-tours:
There are lots of ways to explore our campus, including in-person and virtual tours.
Explore campus with our guided tours.
Get a taste of life at Sussex on a day that suits you.
360° tour of campus and the city of Brighton.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate/school-college-visits:
Help your students make informed decisions about university through our higher education talks, workshops, tours and masterclasses – either at our campus or as part of a visit to your school or college.
Delivered by Sussex graduates, student ambassadors and our recruitment team, our activities are aimed at Year 10, 11, 12 and 13 students.
Depending on the activities you choose as part of the visit, your students will get practical advice and information on the admissions process, student life and university courses.
Look through our activities and decide if you want your school group to come to our campus or if you want our team to visit your school.
We’ll then design a programme for your visit (this can be a mix of talks and masterclasses, or just one event).
Plan your school visit
Choose from one or more higher education talks and workshops as part of your school or college visit, including:
Designed to complement what is being taught in schools and colleges, our engaging subject-specific masterclasses for Years 12 and 13 students are delivered by our faculty members.
You can arrange to book masterclasses in subjects such as psychology, international development, maths and history as part of your school or college visit.
To find out which masterclasses we are currently offering, select 'subject-specific masterclasses' on our school and college visits form and we will contact you with more information.
Led by Sussex students and graduates, our campus visits are a great way to find out what it's like to study at university.
We'll take your group round our campus, learning resources and facilities.
The visit can also include higher education talks and masterclasses.
Most visits take place between 10am and 2pm.
Your students can bring lunch, buy food from one of our cafés or you can pre-order lunch vouchers.
If you’re a student and you’re interested in studying at Sussex, you can also come to an Open Day or go on a campus tour.
study@sussex.ac.uk 01273 876787

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/virtual-tour:
Begin your journey in 360°

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/fees-funding:
Invest in your future with a Sussex degree.
You may be eligible for student loans and funding such as our international scholarships, PhD studentships or our flagship scheme for first-generation students.
If you are a self-funded international student starting a Masters course at Sussex, you may be required to pay a tuition fee deposit.
Find out more about tuition fee deposits .
U.S.
citizens or eligible noncitizens can apply for a Federal Direct Loan if you have accepted an offer of a place at Sussex on an eligible programme.
This includes undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Find out what federal aid is available for U.S.
students
study@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/tuition-fees:
Find out how much our tuition fees are for undergraduate, Masters and PhD degrees, what your fees cover, and ways to pay.
The UK government announced on 4 November that there will be an increase of both tuition fees, and maintenance loans for full-time UK (Home) undergraduate students, for the 2025/26 academic year.
These proposed increases are in line with inflation and in recognition of the financial pressures that increased costs have placed on both universities and students.
This means that from September 2025 for full-time UK (Home) undergraduate students studying in England, the tuition fee will rise to £9,535 per year, an increase of £285.
The change also relates to students on post graduate initial teacher training (ITT) courses, such as PGCEs.
For English undergraduate students studying outside London, the maximum maintenance loan will rise to £10,544, an increase of £317.
Arrangements in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales are different and managed by the relevant funding agency.
Funding arrangements are also different in the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, but Sussex aligns the fees we charge these (Islands) students with our Home (UK) fees.
The increases, which are subject to further parliamentary approval, are proposed to come into effect from 1 August 2025 and will apply to both new and returning students.
These changes affect:
This tuition fee increase will not impact:
The University of Sussex intends to keep UK (Home) and Islands fees in line with UK government approved levels.
In line with our current terms and conditions, it is the University’s intention to charge fees at the new higher rate for 2025/26 (with any subsequent further changes to the cap) for each year of your studies.
You can read more about these tuition fee changes on the UK government's website.
Students only begin to repay once they graduate, and then only if they earn over the earnings ‘threshold’.
For the vast majority of UK students, tuition fees are paid directly to the University by the Student Loans Company.
To see your fees, find your undergraduate course and check the Fees and scholarships section.
Remember to check your fee status if you're unsure which level of fee you will pay.
Please read our tuition fees terms and conditions .
You must accept our financial guarantee to register online as a student.
Note that Home and Islands fees may be subject to an increase on an annual basis as the Government reviews the fee levels.
International fees are subject to an annual increase of 3%.
Check any further costs you may have to pay.
You can also search for undergraduate loans and funding .
To see your fees, find your Masters course and check the Fees and scholarships section.
If you study part time over two years, you’ll be charged 50% of the equivalent full-time fee in each year of study.
Your second year fee – if you continue your studies without a break – will be subject to a 3% increase (subject to rounding).
You can also search for Masters loans and funding .
Home students: £5,005 per year for full-time students.
If your course is not showing with a 2025 start date, you can still see standard fees for PhD degrees starting in 2024 on our fees schedule .
Channel Islands and Isle of Man students: £5,005 per year for full-time students.
International students: £22,575 (non-lab) and £26,250 (lab) per year.
Home PhD student fees are set at the level recommended by United Kingdom Research and Innovation (UKRI) annually, rising in line with inflation.
You can also search for loans and funding to see how you can pay for your fees, and check your fee status .
Depending on the nature of your research topic you may be additionally charged bench fees for expenses which cannot reasonably be covered by the tuition fees.
The requirement to pay bench fees will be detailed in your offer letter.
On top of your PhD fees and living costs, you may also need to cover some research and training costs, relevant to your research project.
These costs will depend on your research topic and training needs, but may include:
If you spend part of your registration as a Postgraduate Research Distant student, you pay full fees for the periods at Sussex and 65% of the full fee for periods as a distant student.
If you are on approved fieldwork and you're absent from the University, you may be charged 65% of the full fee for the fieldwork period.
Reduced fieldwork fees are at the discretion of the relevant Director of Doctoral Studies.
If you have funding through a grant-awarding authority, check if your award includes fieldwork travelling expenses.
To see standard fees for undergraduate courses starting in 2024, take a look at our fees schedule .
If your course is not showing with a 2024 start date, you can still see standard fees for Masters courses starting in 2024 on our fees schedule .
Home students: £4,786 per year for full-time students.
If your course is not showing with a 2024 start date, you can still see standard fees for PhD degrees starting in 2024 on our fees schedule .
Channel Islands and Isle of Man students: £4,786 per year for full-time students.
International students: £21,500 (non-lab) and £25,000 (lab) per year.
You pay different fees depending on your fee status category.
Check if you qualify as a home, Islands or International student for paying fees.
Check how much you'll pay in fees as a returning undergraduate, Masters or PhD student .
See our terms and conditions and find out how your tuition fees are spent .
Check tuition fees for 2018 to 2024 entry .
Your tuition fees cover your education costs, including teaching and exams.
Your fees don't cover:
The table below lists further charges that some students may need to pay during their course.
Student Union membership is free.
If you're an undergraduate student starting in 2024/25 or 2025/26, you pay:
These fees are subject to Government policy changes and you should buy insurance if you do a placement abroad.
You also pay different fees if you do a study abroad year.
Check how much you'll pay if you do a study abroad year .
You can also check fees for:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/living-costs:
It’s important to think about the cost of living.
Use our living costs table as a guide for how much you might need to budget for as a Sussex student, including accommodation costs.
You may need to budget for more or less money depending on your lifestyle.
Accommodation rates may increase in future years.
Costs are based on 52 weeks in a calendar year.
Most bills are included in university accommodation rent , and our accommodation rates will increase in future academic years.
*Total is a rounded figure
Check our living costs sources section below to see how we generated these amounts.
Students who are not living in University accommodation may incur set up costs for their housing.
This will include a security deposit of 5 weeks’ rent.
You should ask the landlord or agency which of the deposit protection schemes they use.
Students without a UK guarantor for their rent may be asked for up to 6 months’ rent in advance.
There are some additional guarantor options – find out more information about looking for a guarantor .
Our Student Funding Team can help you resolve problems or concerns relating to your finances during your studies.
Email studentfunding@sussex.ac.uk for support.
You can also get information on funding sources, expert financial advice and practical support, so you can make the most of your time at Sussex.
You can request an appointment with a Student Money Adviser by emailing moneyadvice@sussex.ac.uk .
To find out more about costs and budgeting, check:
As a Sussex student, you can learn money saving skills during your university life and gain knowledge for the future.
The Blackbullion platform is available to current students and recent graduates.
For more information, see our money skills guidance on the Student Hub .
Costs are calculated from a range of sources, including University accommodation pages , Natwest Student Living Index 2024 , Save the Student , Money Saving Expert , Student Cost of Living Calculator 20224/2025 , Discover Uni and various student surveys.
Due to the current high rate of inflation, you should check the most up-to-date information and budget for price increases.
We update our costs information periodically to help students with budgeting.
Costs are correct as of May 2025.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/international-students:
With degrees from a broad range of subjects to choose from, Sussex is the perfect place to find a course that allows you to follow your passion and shape your future.
1st in the world for Development Studies ( QS World University Rankings 2025 )
=26th in the UK out of 109 UK Institutions ( Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024 )
89% of our research is world leading or internationally excellent ( Research Excellence Framework 2021 )
16th in the UK for Employment Outcomes out of 90 Higher Education Institutions ( QS World University Rankings 2025 )
Contact the international Team
Find out more about International Foundation Year, International Year One and Pre-Masters courses .
Find out more about our pre-sessional courses to help you improve your language and study skills .
Nestled in the South Downs National Park, we’re just nine minutes from one of the UK’s most iconic cities.
Use our country guides to find out about studying at Sussex
Find out more about our much-loved city by the sea
From the initial excitement of receiving an offer to study at Sussex, to discovering the creativity and vibrancy of the city of Brighton, our South Asian students provide an introduction to what Sussex means to them.
View the full collection .
Want to find out more about student life?
Chat to current Sussex students from around the world.
Ask a question via Unibuddy .
Explore your study options as an international student
We have a range of scholarships and funding for international students
Talk to our International Officers at an event near you
From visas to social events, our advisors are here to help.
Before starting your course, you need to have acheived a certain level of English.
The University offers pre-sessional English courses for students applying to Sussex.
View information on these courses provided by the Department of Language Studies .
Support to develop your English Language skills is also available during your studies.
You may need a Visa to study in Sussex:
See all visa information on the Student Hub .
Agent partners (also known as agents or representatives) can help you with your application to Sussex and provide advice about living and studying in the UK.
Find out about Sussex’s relationship with agent partners , what you should consider when choosing someone to represent you, and how to provide feedback .
Ensure you have checked the British Council's Guide to Choosing an Education Agent .
Are you an official partner for the University?
Our Partner Zone features lots of useful resources and information.
If you'd like the International Office team to contact you about applying to Sussex or to learn more about studying here, please fill out the form below.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/international-students/meet-us:
Whatever question you have about studying at Sussex, our International team are here to help.
You can meet us at an event in your country, talk to one of our teams in a Sussex office near you or contact a Sussex representative.
Meet our teams in one of our Sussex offices in China, Malaysia and Nigeria.
We have the latest information on our undergraduate, Masters and PhD degrees, student life, scholarships and visas.
We can also help you with your application.
If we don't have an office near you, contact one of our in-country representatives.
See our country guides for representative contact details

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-country:
Use our country guides to find out what it's like to study at Sussex, including societies and groups for students from your country, and find out who to contact in your country if you want to come and study at Sussex.
Our country guides include information for our in-country agent partners.
Please ensure that you have familiarised yourself with the British Council's Guide to Choosing an Education Agent before contacting one of them.
https://study-uk.britishcouncil.org/plan-studies/apply/education-agents

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-at-sussex:
Study for a summer, semester or year.
The tranquility of the South Downs and the energy of Brighton - we've got it all.
When you study at Sussex as an overseas student, you'll:
Choose from a range of modules for a summer, semester or year
Discover what makes Sussex a great place to study
Find a place you can call home while you study abroad
See what's included in our fees
Follow our step-by-step guide for applying to Sussex
Find out what our entry requirements are
The quality of the teaching you will experience at Sussex is reflected within our rankings, whether it's being 1st in the world for Development Studies ( QS World University Rankings by Subject 2022 ) or joint 37th globally for world impact ( Times Higher Education (THE) World Impact Rankings 2022 ).
We’re proud to offer the only Liberal Arts course in the UK designed in partnership with specialists from activist organisations, think-tanks, NGOs, journalism, broadcasting, PR and communications.
As a Study Abroad at Sussex student you will have the opportunity to choose modules from our new Liberal Arts course, which brings together perspectives from the arts, humanities and social sciences to create new forms of understanding and future-facing solutions.
Find out more about our liberal arts modules .
If you are a university student from Japan, you can spend a year or term at Sussex as part of our Junior Year Abroad programme .
You study academic and/or English language courses, and for some programmes, you receive credits that you may be able to transfer to your university.
Are you already a Sussex student looking to study abroad?
If you are a current or prospective Sussex student you can study at a number of locations around the world as part of your degree.
Find out about studying abroad as a Sussex student .
If you are studying at Sussex for a semester or year and have questions, email sussexabroad@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/international-students/english-language:
Find out about our English language courses for international students, including fees and how to apply.
Some universities and colleges require you to have achieved a certain level of English before starting your studies.
We offer pre-sessional English courses for students applying to Sussex, and Intensive English courses for students who wish to study in the UK more generally.
Full-time academic English and study skills preparation, if you plan to go on to study either an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Sussex.
Study English as a foreign language over a term or more, between September and June, in preparation for further education or work.
You can study at Sussex over the summer if you want to improve your English language skills and learn more about British culture.
Study English as a language over the summer months with this full-time course for visitors to the UK.
Not looking to improve your English?
We also offer a range of modules for students looking to study at Sussex over the summer, semester or year.
As part of your Sussex degree, we offer undergraduate modules in English in Academic Contexts.
This is so you can become familiar with the conventions of academic English needed for tertiary study in the UK, and develop the language and skills required for effective study.
We also offer current students whose first language is not English, free workshops, and one-to-one tutorials throughout the academic year.
See the modules offered to undergraduate students to help improve your English language skills as you study.
Workshops and one-to-one support for our current students.
Late applications cannot be guaranteed a place on the course.
There can be no refund or discount for late arrivals or early leavers.
Please note you have 14 days after you have paid in which to cancel and receive a refund for tuition deposits.
However, refunds will only be made if cancellation notice is received 4 weeks (28 days) before the start of the course.
In the case of a refund, an administration charge of £50 will be made.
If your country, or the UK, will not allow you to travel due to Covid, and you can provide proof of testing positive for Covid 10 days or less before the course starts, we will give you a full refund.
The University will be closed on UK public holidays and other University minimum service days.
No teaching will take place on these days.
See the full list of closure and minimum service days .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/student-life:
Cover yourself in body paint for One World Week.
Jump on your bike and get muddy on the Downs.
Chat with friends over a game of pool.
We know your student experience doesn’t end when you leave the lecture theatre.
Experience life to the full at Sussex – your home away from home.
Find out what it's like to study here and how we support you to succeed
Discover what life is like on campus, and the facilities on offer
Uncover everything that Brighton has to offer – our city by the sea
We came 1st for Student Life (in South East England) at this year’s What Uni Student Choice Awards 2025 .
The Student Life category focuses on the university experience outside of the lecture theatre – friendships, socialising, sports and other fun activities that help you relax and build a sense of community.
The award reflects our commitment to helping our students live uni life to the full.
Find out how to enrich your student experience with a range of engaging activities.
Check what you need to know about travelling to university from home during your studies.
Learn about the wide-ranging support we provide to all Sussex students.
Get a 360º view of our inspiring campus and the vibrant city of Brighton from your screen.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/student-life/campus:
Home to great facilities in a stunning location, our beautiful single-site campus is designed to help you make the most of your time here.
It exudes a unique combination of energy and tranquility.
We have a variety of housing available, on and off campus, which means you could live a short walk from where you learn and socialise.
You can apply for University-managed accommodation once you have received an offer from Sussex.
Find out about our accommodation .
You may also be assured of University-managed housing with our accommodation guarantee .
Enjoy nights out at one of our student bars where you can listen to live music, watch sport and take advantage of food and drink at student-friendly prices.
You can choose from several bars, cafés and restaurants, serving everything from vegetarian food to fish and chips.
There’s also a weekly market during term time, selling great street food, clothes, posters, music and books.
Find out about our Students’ Union bars and cafés and the cafés and restaurants on campus .
We’ve got a supermarket, Post Office, bank, health centre and more.
Find out more about the facilities on campus .
Attend a fitness class, play sports including football, cricket and squash, or join a sports society.
With two sports centres on campus , you have access to facilities including fitness rooms, sports halls, squash courts and outdoor pitches and a range of group exercise classes.
And whether you’re a beginner or a sports fanatic, you benefit from discounted student membership deals .
Choose from over 180 clubs, societies and sports teams , all supported by the Students’ Union.
These include dance societies, academic societies and even a ukulele society.
There’s also an award-winning TV station.
You can get involved in a number of events run by the Students’ Union, including Welcome Week and One World Sussex, which celebrates the diversity of our campus community.
The Sussex community is a rich cultural mix, with staff and students combined from more than 170 countries ( HESA Staff and Student Records 2020/21 ).
This means there are lots of opportunities for you to meet people from all over the world
We have several international events on campus, from our One World Sussex week to watching the Super Bowl at one of our bars.
You can also buy international food from our cafés, shops and food stalls, including a weekly street food market during term time.
And with our Language Café , Buddy Scheme and student societies , you can explore new cultures and meet others who share your interests.
Step off campus and explore the hills and woodlands of the South Downs National Park , which surrounds the campus.
It’s the perfect place for walking and cycling.
Benefit from a variety of religious student societies and places to practice your faith on campus and in Brighton.
The Meeting House is an on-campus chaplaincy, which caters for a range of denominations, and we also have a Muslim Student Centre and a Muslim prayer facility.
We have a childcare centre on campus , run by Co-op Little Pioneers, which caters for children aged three months up to five years old.
Places are limited: contact us early in your application process.
Our on-campus security service operates 24-hours a day, 365 days a year.
Our security officers monitor security cameras and patrol the campus regularly.
You can also visit the security reception at any time.
Visit the Student Hub website for places to shop and eat and ways to get around the area.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/student-life/brighton:
Discover Brighton, the famous seaside city just a few minutes from our campus – where having fun is unavoidable.
A sunny seaside city famous for its sense of inclusivity – there can be few better places to be a student than Brighton.
Brighton is located on England’s South Coast in the county of East Sussex.
It’s only an hour away from Central London by train and 30 minutes from London Gatwick, one of the UK's major international airports.
Brighton’s seafront is the ideal place to soak up the sun in the summer, or take bracing walks to clear your head on winter days.
Along the prom you’ll find caf é s, bars and nightclubs, as well as beach and water sports.
The Lanes is a maze of alleyways crammed with quirky boutiques, antique jewellery shops and tempting cafés, bars and restaurants.
North Laine has one of the largest selections of independent shops on England’s South Coast, and is a perfect spot to grab a coffee and watch the world go by.
The city has some of the best club nights in the country , along with fantastic pubs, restaurants, independent cinemas and a great live music scene.
Music is a way of life in Brighton.
Walk around the city and you might bump into legends past and present who’ve found a home in this unique location.
With an estimated 500 bands in the city, and gigs every night of the week , you’re bound to find something for you.
Internationally, the city is known for The Great Escape , the UK’s leading showcase for new music.
Throughout May the city hosts England’s biggest arts festival.
Brighton Festival features theatre, music, art and visual media by leading names from around the world.
And all year round there are plays, art exhibitions, gigs and events at many of the theatres, pubs, museums and galleries in the city.
Brighton is a hub for the performing arts.
Venues range from small theatres above pubs to The Theatre Royal, featuring West End productions.
Brighton is also home to the Duke of York’s Picture House , an art house cinema, which is claimed to be the oldest in the country.
There are also two multiplex cinemas in the city.
Other major arts events include:
Brighton is crammed with cafés, restaurants and coffee shops .
Whether you want to dine in style or grab a cheap deal , take afternoon tea or try an award-winning curry, you’ll find something to suit your taste and your budget.
Brighton also has some of the best vegetarian restaurants in the country.
If you’re the sporty type, or just a spectator, the city has plenty of opportunities to get involved:
The seafront is also a great place to get active, with sea swimming, windsurfing, kitesurfing, wakeboarding, sailing and paddle boarding.
Our campus also has fantastic sports facilities and lots of teams to get involved with.
Grab some Mexican street food, try Pan-Asian fine dining or buy ingredients from an Afro-Caribbean or Asian supermarket.
Brighton’s international community and culture means you are never far from home comforts or trying something new.
You can go to a range of events that celebrate Brighton’s diversity, including:
There are also three mosques and an Islamic centre, Catholic and Anglican Churches, a Buddhist centre, four synagogues, and Greek and Coptic Orthodox churches in Brighton and the local area.
Find out about life in Brighton as an international student

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/student-life/studying:
Lose yourself in thousands of books in our world-class library.
Be inspired by renowned lecturers in our specialist facilities.
Whether you're an undergraduate, Masters or PhD student, we have the learning resources and study support to help you succeed at Sussex - and in your future career.
Find out how we support you to meet your potential
Explore the facilities you'll use as a student
Discover everything you need to know about studying at Sussex
International Business student, Oto, gives some top tips on developing your study skills, including:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-support:
Whether you’re concerned about your studies, need financial or career advice or have emotional or health concerns, our student support services are here to help.
The Student Centre offers support on a range of welfare issues.
We can help with:
You can drop in to the Student Centre during the week and book appointments with experienced advisers.
Transcript starts:
Impressive aerial views of the Sussex campus, descending into the entrance way of the Student Centre.
Text on screen: The heart of your student experience.
Have you been inside yet?
A barista hands over a coffee cup.
Text on screen: Grab a drink.
See what's going on.
Walk-through views of tables, chairs, spaces, nooks and quiet corners.
Text on screen: Find a place to study or to take a break.
Stay solo or invite your friends.
Text on screen: Bring your own lunch.
A student putting food in a microwave.
Text on screen: Facilities for everyone.
Glimpses of toilets and changing areas.
Text on screen: Spaces for events and workshops, and to take a breath.
Inside large, brightly-lit rooms with acoustically treated ceilings.
Gliding out into an airy courtyard with a relaxing fountain.
Text on screen: Find confidential support, or any extra help you need.
A student advisor shows the way into a confidential room.
Two welcome desk staff smiling and pointing towards a wide staircase.
Text on screen: More spaces upstairs, plus drop-ins and services.
Meandering through stylish corridors, students working quietly, towards an open door, where another advisor waits to help.
Text on screen: Your Student Centre.
Views of the foyer and the building from outside.
Transcript ends.
If you live in University-managed accommodation you can also speak to our Residential Life team.
They offer welfare support and run a drop-in service on campus during the week.
There is also an out-of-hours emergency support phone number to make sure you have all the help you need.
We offer a range of tailored support for all students.
You can also get advice if you have disabilities, mental health conditions, autism spectrum conditions and specific learning difficulties through our specialist support services.
Our network of expert staff includes support workers, mental health mentors, note-takers and dyslexia tutors.
This is available for students who have support needs before they come to Sussex, or who develop a condition or become unwell during their studies.
Find out more about disability support for current students at Sussex .
At Sussex, you’ll join an international community of students and staff from more than 140 countries.
Our support begins before you start at Sussex – we can help you apply for a visa and find out what to expect when you arrive.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be invited to activities and events to help you make new friends and settle into life in the UK.
We also provide careers support, including advice on visas and how to get a job in the UK.
Find out more about support for international students .
Once you’re here, our English Language for Academic Study service offers free workshops, one-to-one tutorials and writing sessions.
Our aim is to help you develop your English and adapt to UK academic study.
All members of our community, including our students, will have equal access to opportunities and we will support them to achieve their potential.
Find out about our work towards equality and inclusion .
The Meeting House is the base for our on-campus chaplaincy , with services spanning a range of faiths and deonominations.
The campus also has a Muslim Student Centre and prayer facility.
We have a range of facilities for students who come to study at Sussex while caring for children or other dependants.
We have a nursery and pre-school on campus.
Places can fill up quickly so it’s best to apply as early as possible.
Learn more about the campus nursery .
Find out more about our support for students with children .
Mature students bring a wealth of experience to their University life and can offer unique perspectives that are highly valued by fellow students.
However, mature students can experience extra pressures, such as work commitments or challenges adjusting to academic life after a break from studying.
We can help you address any difficulties you encounter.
Our advisors in the Student Centre can support you, making sure you have the information and help you need to progress through your studies.
If you want to make an academic complaint to the University, our Students’ Union can provide confidential, independent advice to help you through the process.
The Students’ Union also campaign about students rights , including issues surrounding housing, transport, equality and higher education policy.
Find out more about the Students’ Union
To ensure you get the best possible start to life after University, we offer specialist careers guidance, support to start a business, and opportunities to engage with employers.
You will also have access to graduate, placement, internship and part-time job vacancies, as well as a menu of work experience exclusively for Sussex students.
Find out more about career development at Sussex .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/accommodation:
From your first term to final exams, find your home from home at Sussex.
Moving somewhere new is an exciting part of student life, but it can also feel a little daunting.
As you take the next step on your journey, Sussex can help you find the right place to call home.
Our housing options are designed to suit your lifestyle and support your wellbeing, so you can start to settle in from day one.
We can also help you to explore the world beyond the University, and learn about life in Brighton & Hove.
Across these pages, you can explore our campus residences, access advice on private renting, and check whether you’re eligible for our Accommodation Guarantee.
Live in the heart of our vibrant campus community.
Explore our application process and check your eligibility.
Your guide to off-campus renting.
Advice on moving with relatives and children.
Book short-term stays during University vacations.
Explore our range of campus residences .
You may be guaranteed a place in University accommodation depending on your course, fee status and level of study.
You can check whether you're eligible for guaranteed campus housing, and also download our housing guide [PDF 3.4 MB] for further information.
If you secure your place at Sussex through Clearing, you’ll be guaranteed an offer of accommodation so you can focus on the exciting stuff – connecting with your housemates, planning your Welcome Week , and exploring everything Brighton has to offer.
You will be guaranteed accommodation if you accept a place within 48 hours of receiving your offer and apply for housing by 5pm on Tuesday 19 August.
Find out more about the housing application process for Clearing students .
We’re making our campus even better to help our students flourish – in their studies, communities and social lives.
Our West Slope Development will offer new living, wellbeing and social spaces, while our Network Replacement programme will deliver improved IT services, including faster internet speeds.
Construction will take place from the 2024/2025 academic year.
You can explore our campus map to view the construction zone, or learn more about our campus development plans .
Whether you’re applying for campus housing or you’d prefer to rent privately, our Housing team can provide general advice and support.
housing@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 678220
Housing Services Bramber House Level 2, North Side University of Sussex Falmer BN1 9QU
Reception opening times: 10am-2pm, Monday - Friday Phoneline opening times: 10am-4pm, Monday - Friday We're part of the Student Accommodation Code , which protects students’ rights to safe, good-quality accommodation.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/careers:
Design your future at Sussex.
Our award-winning Careers and Entrepreneurship team will help you develop the skills and expertise to get you where you want to go.
We're proud to be 16th in the UK for employment outcomes (out of 90 Higher Education institutions) in the QS World University Rankings 2025 .
We’ll support you to realise your career priorities, such as earning a healthy salary, finding a friendly workplace, and making an impact on wider society.
Learn how we can help you plan your future career.
Explore placement and internship options at Sussex.
Find out how we support you to get a part-time job.
Find out how we support you to get a graduate job.
Careers advice and support for Masters and PhD students.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/terms-and-conditions:
Read our guidelines for student transfer arrangements.
Read our Student Protection Plan for 2024/25 [PDF 296KB].

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/facts:
Discover how Sussex is a leading institution in teaching, learning and research, making a lasting impact on the lives of our communities.
Find out more about Sussex, our research and teaching.
See how we perform in league tables, surveys and impact evaluations.
From global brands and governments to startups, non-profits and social enterprises, our graduates go on to make important contributions to the world around us – excelling in established career paths and shaping emerging industries.
Discover how our award-winning Careers and Entrepreneurship team can help you to flourish at Sussex and beyond.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/who:
Sussex was the first of the new wave of UK universities founded in the 1960s, receiving its Royal Charter in 1961.
Find out about the people leading us today and explore the schools, departments and services that make up the University.
Learn about the people leading the University of Sussex.
Explore our research and faculty.
See how we support our schools, departments and students.
Read our governing documents, which set out our objectives, powers and who exercises our functions.
Read about the principle committees across the Council and Senate.
Council is the governing body of the University.
Read the Council terms of reference and role descriptor [PDF, 151KB] .
The following committees fall under the council, and you can also read their terms of reference:
Specific authority is delegated to Senate for the regulation of academic work, governance decision making, advice and assurance to Council.
Read the Senate terms of reference and role descriptor [PDF, 141KB] .
See how the committees that fall under the Senate are structured and read their terms of reference:
University Education Committee terms of reference [PDF, 99KB]
The following sub-committees sit under the University Education Committee:
University Research and Innovation Committee terms of reference [PDF 153.10KB]
The following sub-committees sit under the University Research and Innovation Committee:
Academic Promotions, Advancement and Titles Committee terms of reference terms of reference [PDF, 72KB]
Honorary Degrees Committee terms of reference terms of reference [PDF, 56KB]

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-funding:
Our Sussex 2025 vision reimagines the pioneering spirit of the original purpose of our University but does so for new times and a new generation.
Discover our Sussex 2025 Strategic Framework
Explore our corporate documents, reports and statements
Find out where our income comes from and how we spend it
As an organisation that receives funds from public source, the University of Sussex is committed to delivering and demonstrating value for money.
Find out more.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/term-dates:
Check the University’s term dates for teaching, exams, graduation, holidays and minimum service days.
These dates are for all students and staff, although exact dates and assessment periods will depend on individual courses.
Masters and PhD students study throughout the academic year.
You can check your term, semester and assessment dates by contacting your school or checking Canvas.
For the academic year 2024-25, Welcome Week will start on 16 September 2024.
Teaching will begin on 23 September 2024 and end on 25 April 2025.
*Take Away Papers (TAPs) may be set in the early part of the following week.
Minimum service days are days when the University of Sussex runs a minimal operational service.
Some offices may be closed, or running a skeleton service.
Sun 31 May 2026 to Sun 20 Sep 2026
For the academic year 2026-27, Welcome Week will start on 21 September 2026.
Teaching will begin on 28 September 2026 and end on 30 April 2026.
Examinations are held in the assessment periods and may be during evenings, on Saturdays or on bank holidays.
Assessment deadlines may be during vacations or the revision week.
Read more exam information for students and guidance on submitting assessments .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/directions:
With the South Downs on our doorstep, we're well-served by train, bus and road while cycling is also popular.
We are nine minutes from Brighton, an hour from London and 30 minutes away from an international airport.
You can reach the University of Sussex directly from Brighton Station and Lewes Station.
Falmer Station is directly opposite the campus.
You can walk to the campus from the station through a subway under the A27.
Follow signs for the University of Sussex (the University of Brighton also has a campus at Falmer).
You can get from Brighton to Falmer in nine minutes by train.
Four trains an hour go to Falmer during the day.
If you are travelling from London and the west, take a train to Brighton and change there for Falmer.
The journey time from London to Brighton is just under an hour.
You can also change at Lewes for Falmer, if you are coming from the east.
See National Rail Enquiries for train times .
The University is at Falmer on the A27 between Brighton and Lewes , about four miles (six kilometres) from the centre of Brighton.
Follow signs for the University of Sussex, which is on the north side of the A27.
The University of Brighton also has a campus at Falmer, on the south side of the A27.
If you are coming from London and the north, take the M23/A23 road towards Brighton.
Before you enter Brighton, join the A27 eastbound signposting Lewes.
If you're travelling from the east or west take the A27 direct to the University.
Parking on campus is limited and there is normally a daily parking charge for visitors.
This does not apply for open and admissions days or any visits arranged through the Student Recruitment Services Office.
There is designated visitor parking, which is signposted on campus.
Car parks are not attended and you should not leave objects of value in your vehicle.
There are 600 spaces at Brighton Station, although it is normally busy on Saturdays.
Details of how to pay by phone are displayed in the car park.
The following car parks are the closest to bus stops for the number 25 bus route serving the campus:
You can go to Parkopedia to find out the costs of parking in each car park, and find out more information about parking in Brighton on the Visit Brighton website.
There are 272 spaces at Lewes Station.
See the Lewes District Council website or the East Sussex County Council website for more information about parking and car parks in Lewes.
The 23, 25, 25X, 28, 29 and 701 buses run between the centre of Brighton and the campus.
The 25 buses run from Palmeira Square in Hove, through Churchill Square and the Old Steine in Brighton, into the campus.
The 23 route runs from Brighton Marina in the east, through Hanover, into the campus.
The 28 and 29 go from Churchill Square and stop outside the University campus.
The Stagecoach 701 route runs from Eastbourne to Brighton and stops outside the University campus.
Some 5B (Hollingbury) and 50 (Hollingdean) buses also run to the campus.
Travel time between the campus and Brighton is about 20 minutes.
See bus timetables and information .
If you're a cyclist, you can benefit from purpose-built bike lanes along Lewes Road connecting the University to the centre of Brighton.
It takes about 25 minutes to cycle to the campus and there is plenty of bike parking.
Taxis are available at central taxi ranks and Brighton and Lewes train stations.
The campus is about four miles (six kilometres) from central Brighton but it is often quicker to catch the train to Falmer from Brighton or Lewes.
National Express Coaches to Brighton leave from London Victoria Coach Station and arrive at Pool Valley in the centre of the city.
Services are every hour during the day and take about three hours.
Coaches also run to Brighton from Gatwick and Heathrow airports.
From Pool Valley, walk 100 metres to the Old Steine where you can catch a bus to campus or take a taxi.
The closest airport to Brighton is London Gatwick .
Gatwick is 30 minutes by train to Brighton.
London Heathrow is around two hours by coach.
Cross-channel car and passenger ferries operate between Dieppe in France and Newhaven, which has a train link to Falmer.
From Portsmouth or Southampton, you can take the train to Brighton and change for Falmer.
From any other port, take the train to London and travel from London Victoria Station via Brighton.
Eurostar operates train services from continental Europe via the Channel Tunnel.
You can take a train from London St Pancras to Brighton, or get a service from Ashford International to Falmer, changing at Lewes.
Use Google maps or Bing maps to find routes to and from the campus.
Both maps also give aerial views of the campus.
If you can't find the travel information you need from these pages, email information@sussex.ac.uk .
If you're starting a degree at Sussex, read more information on travelling to campus .
If you're considering transport options and living arrangements while studying at Sussex, find out more about commuting to university .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/campus:
The University of Sussex is located at Falmer on the outskirts of Brighton, within easy reach of London and major international airports at Gatwick and Heathrow.
Check what’s available on-campus, including shops and outlets.
Find out about our upcoming building projects.
Download a PDF map of the Sussex campus.
Browse the options for eating and drinking.
Can’t get to Falmer?
Immerse yourself in our beautiful campus online.
Take a virtual tour

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/sustainable-university:
Find out how we're working towards becoming one of the most sustainable universities in the world.
Our vision is clear.
Our strategic goal is for the University of Sussex to be one of the most sustainable universities in the world.
We will show global leadership in demonstrating and promoting all forms of environmental, social and economic sustainability at a local, regional, national and international level.
On these sustainability webpages you can find out more about our sustainability strategy, policies, performance, research and how you can get involved in sustainability at Sussex..
Contribute your ideas and help us realise our collective vision of creating the most biodiverse university campus in the UK.
Read our 2021 Sustainability Strategy and see how we are working to improve sustainability across our University
Find out about our world leading sustainability research
Find out about how we’re working on sustainability and the Sustainable Development Goals at Sussex
Get in touch with the Sustainability team
Find out how you can get involved in sustainability through your work, study and living at Sussex.
23 July 2025
The University Estates division, alongside our new partners OCS, will be working to help make our buildings run more efficiently.
22 July 2025
Students from Sussex have been speaking out on the value of education for sustainable development at a number of national events.
17 July 2025
A day of growth, community, and nature connection through staff volunteering
See all sustainability news
No items are currently available.
See all sustainability events
Welcome to what we hope will be a lively and passionate sustainability blog from all sections of the staff and student community at Sussex.
A guest blog from Emily (International Development BA), who embarked on a Career Lab UK Summer Internship at organisation Tech Takeback
4 June 2025
For World Environment Day, a former student explains the skills he developed here at Sussex - and how to pursue a career in climate journalism.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/culture-equality-and-inclusion:
We are striving to become ‘Inclusive Sussex’.
All members of our community will have equal access to opportunities, and we will enable and support them to fully achieve their potential and contribute to the success and advancement of the University.
Find out about the work we are doing at Sussex and the ways we involve and support our community.
FInd out about our vision to become Inclusive Sussex.
Reducing inequalities and celebrating diversity allows us all to thrive.
We can achieve more together than we can apart.
This equality, diversity and inclusion strategy sets out the steps we will take to become an Inclusive Sussex.
This is a collective endeavour across management, staff and students which sets out to create a fully inclusive campus by and for our whole community.
Hello.
My name is David Ruebain, and I'm the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Culture, Equality and Inclusion.
I'd like to talk today about the University's more proactive and positive obligations to advance equality, diversity and inclusion, and also related legislation which affects our work in this area.
Many of you will be aware that the Equality Act 2010 is the primary legislation requiring organisations, including universities, to avoid acting unlawfully in the area of various kinds of discrimination, harassment and victimisation, and also proactively to make reasonable adjustments to ensure that disabled people don't face substantial disadvantage.
But beyond that, universities as public bodies have particular obligations under what's called the Public Sector Equality Duty.
And the Public Sector Equality Duty is an innovative, proactive obligation requiring universities and other public bodies to have due regard to the need to eliminate discrimination, harassment, victimisation and any other unlawful conduct, but also in particular to advance equality of opportunity and to foster good relations between persons who may share a protected characteristic or which is an identity, and those who don't or who have different identities.
And these particular obligations, these proactive obligations, are critical in fostering and creating an environment in which everyone can succeed.
In Sussex, for example, we have initiated a number of programs that seek to help us meet the obligations of the Public Sector Equality Duty.
For example, we are now at the beginning of a five-year initiative called Black at Sussex, which is an initiative in partnership with other organisations, including the Black Cultural Archives in London, and seeks to celebrate some of our many extraordinary Black alumni and thereby also help us create an environment within the University which fosters a sense of belonging for everyone.
We set up a Religion and Belief Forum to help us think about diverse groups within our community who hold particular beliefs, whether they're faith beliefs or other beliefs, or who hold no particular beliefs.
And what we may need to do to bring the different communities together.
We've commenced a series of exciting events called Inclusive Sussex: In Conversation, where we will be bringing external speakers from a variety of backgrounds to talk about their lives and their work in a way which I hope will be engaging, informative and supportive of our ambitions as a university.
And in that way, we hope to use the legal obligations that we have to enable us to really deliver on our values in our strategy, and to meet our commitment to advance equality, diversity and inclusion.
Related to this work, the University has other legal obligations which frame the work that we do, and these include legal obligations to prevent hatred, incitement of hatred, to protect against harassment and to maintain public order and safety.
And there are, of course, other legislative frameworks which may as well impact, such as the University's obligations under the Prevent Duty, to prevent extremism.
And indeed, legal frameworks which cover all organisations, but also universities, such as prohibitions against libel and defamation and indeed protecting employees' rights in a variety of ways as well.
We pledge that we will seek to be Antiracist by making all necessary changes to the education, research and administrative activities of the University.
Through diligent, sustained antiracist work we will move towards b eing an inclusive university that genuinely celebrates and reflects diversity.
Find out more and view further Inclusive Sussex commitments .
We are committed to promoting academic freedom and freedom of speech through providing an environment for the peaceful exchange of diverse viewpoints.
Find out more about our commitment to freedom of speech .
A five-year programme which aims to improve the experience of Black students and staff at Sussex.
We want to celebrate our Black alumni and build collaborative relationships with Black-owned businesses.
Helping staff and students navigate difficult conversations and build a culture of active listening.
News
14 August 2025
Including Brighton & Hove Pride 2025, online training on harassment and sexual misconduct, new projects for Black at Sussex and more
12 August 2025
Our walking group of 58 staff, students and alumni joined the parade, marching together in protest and celebration
6 August 2025
Black at Sussex is proud to announce a series of impactful projects for the 2025–26 academic year.
See all the latest culture, equality and inclusion news
See all events
Creating a sense of community is vital to us at Sussex and we want to provide opportunities for you to connect, to be supported and feel included.
If you are a member of staff you can:
We can also support your wellbeing and offer equality and diversity training .
If you are a student, we can support you through our:
Find out more about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at Sussex or take a look at our Report and Support tool to report bullying, harassment or violence.
We'd love to hear from you so we can constantly monitor and improve our Culture, equality and inclusion web pages.
Let us know how we are doing .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/community:
At the University of Sussex we're lucky to be part of a vibrant mix of communities and cultures, and we care about the role we play.
By engaging with businesses, charities and other local partners, we hope to make a positive difference to our local area.
Find out more about our:
We've enjoyed a close partnership with Brighton Festival since it began in 1967.
As official Higher Education Partner, we bring academic expertise to the forefront of the arts through curated programming, as well as facilitating community arts, learning and engagement.
Our Festival of Ideas event series, led by the School of Media, Art and Humanities is part of the official festival programme.
Find out more about the Festival of Ideas
We're an official partner of Brighton Pride; an annual celebration of the city’s LGBTQ+ community.
Sussex staff and students join the festivities in August, and we have a float in the Pride parade.
Find out more about Brighton Pride
We were the official Education Partner of the Turner Prize 2023; the world’s leading prizes for contemporary art.
Teams across the university worked in collaboration with Towner Eastbourne on an inspiring art education programme which included events at the Attenborough Centre for Creative Arts (ACCA) and brought the Turner Prize to life for local young people across the region.
Find out more about the partnership
Our students and staff actively engage with their local community through a variety of initiatives including:
Sussex Co-Lab brings together universities, local governments and health partners with businesses, artists, researchers and residents, we use creative and participatory methods to enable more inclusive decision-making.
We aim to improve outcomes for local people by testing new ways of working that can help everyone to flourish.
Soapbox Science is a public outreach platform that promotes women scientists.
The event provides an opportunity to enjoy, learn from, interact with, and be inspired by, some of our leading scientists.
No middle person, no PowerPoint slide, no amphitheatre – just remarkable women in science who are there to amaze you with their latest discoveries, and to answer the science questions you have been burning to ask.
The Brighton event, organised by University of Sussex staff, is held on the seafront, next to the i360, and is part of Brighton Fringe.
[Shots of Brighton including the seafront and West Pier and a woman putting up a parasol.
Dr Hadia Almahli walks along the promenade]
This is Dr Hadia Almahli.
She is a researcher and lecturer specialising in drug discovery.
She spoke at this year's Soapbox Science event.
Hadia: Usually Soapbox Science runs each summer, here on the seafront in Brighton, because it's a busy area with a lot of people here on the beach, from different nationalities, different backgrouns and different ages.
People walk by and they can stop or we can stop them to inspire them about our experiences in research and to encourage them to be involved in science.
Sorry...
let's start again.
I feel so excited to be a scientist.
Since my childhood, I've seen a cartoon film on TV in Syria about Marie Curie.
Marie Curie is a scientist - chemist- ans she's the first woman in the world to win a Nobel Prize twice, and the first woman to be a Professor in Paris University.
She struggled a lot in her life.
She lost everything from her paternal side and maternal side - properties, everything.
It's very similar to my situation as we lost everything in Syria after the war, so we started from zero again.
Our message to all people, especially young people, through this event is try to read more about science, and dream about science.
All these fields lead to one thing - to help other people.
To save their lives, improve their lives.
Our target is human.
Whatever life throws at you, just work hard, think big and follow your dreams.
Don't stop!
[End credit shows University of Sussex logo].
Our Law Clinics are a collaboration between final year law students, law academics and external solicitors and barristers.
The clinics offer free legal advice to the public, charities, schools and organisations on a variety of legal issues.
We run a number of different clinics including: criminal justice law, family law and housing law.
Turner Prize-winner and Sussex alumni Helen Cammock has reinvigorated public art on campus.
Her text-based artwork, on a wall at the University's Student Centre, is the first in decades.
Read an interview with Helen
27 June 2025
SHL Digital 2025 report now available, celebrating 10 years of work at the intersection of computational technology, culture, society & environment.
25 June 2025
A look back at the Summer of Research 2025, where you can view the photo gallery of highlights from the festival.
view all news

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/conferences:
Develop your teaching career, extend your network of contacts and broaden your knowledge on Higher Education information, advice and guidance at our beautiful campus.
There are no Teacher Conferences currently planned for 2025, but if you would like updates around any upcoming relevant events, please fill in the form below.
If you're a teacher or careers advisor, you can attend one of our free teacher conferences.
Lunch and refreshments are provided.
Held on the University of Sussex campus you’ll:
Subject to approval, this event will be CPD accredited.
Tick the box to confirm the details submitted are true and accurate.
The information provided in this form will only be used by the University for the purposes for which it is being submitted.
Any personal data provided will be processed in accordance with the University’s privacy notice (link opens in new tab) and current data protection legislation.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/access-to-education:
The Widening Participation team at Sussex supports learners who are under-represented in higher education.
We can help students make informed choices about their future.
If you have students interested in studying at degree level, we offer an exciting range of activities.
These include:
We believe that everyone should have the opportunity to reach their full potential, regardless of their background.
We believe in the power of higher education to drive social mobility and that a diverse, inclusive university community can help make a fairer society for all.
Our work aims to equip learners from under-represented backgrounds with the awareness, advice and opportunities that they need to make informed choices about their future and succeed beyond school.
Get in touch with us at inspires@sussex.ac.uk to find out more.
If you work in a school or college and you’d like to find out more about how we can support your students, please contact:
We love partnering with our academic colleagues to create engaging activities and events.
To hear more about what we do and how to be involved please contact participate@sussex.ac.uk .
Ambassadors play a key role in our work.
They support prospective students by answering questions and speaking about their own experiences.
Our ambassadors get access to training, on-going support and flexible paid work on campus.
If you're interested in becoming an ambassador and want to find out more, contact inspires@sussex.ac.uk .
We’re keen to connect with community groups and charities to find out how we can extend our outreach activities to benefit the local community.
Please contact:
If you’re supporting your young person’s education progression and would like some advice or guidance then contact our team at: participate@sussex.ac.uk .
The University of Sussex has created an Access and Participation Plan which is approved by the Office for Students.
This sets out our tuition fee limit and a commitment to access measures, from financial support for students to outreach schemes.
Find out more about our Access and Participation Plan .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/recruit-graduates-students:
As an employer, you can advertise vacancies for free, attend recruitment events (including our Careers Fair) and hire a placement year student or a funded intern.
Use our online jobs portal, CareerHub to advertise your vacancies to our students and graduates.
You can advertise graduate jobs or schemes, part-time jobs, placements, internships and work experience opportunities.
Find out more about advertising and uploading vacancies .
Explore our funding to recruit a student intern or a team of student consultants to work on a project for your organisation.
Find out about recruiting student interns and consultants .
All our undergraduate students can take a placement year, and we also have postgraduate placement programmes.
Find out more about hiring placement students .
We hold several careers fairs each year, giving you the opportunity to meet our students.
Find out more about our Careers Fairs .
Contact Andrea Wall, Employer Engagement Manager, on:
You can also join our employer forum on LinkedIn .
Visit our business pages to find out how to access Sussex’s knowledge and expertise, including collaborative research opportunities.
You can also book conference facilities on campus.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/facts/facts-figures:
The University of Sussex is a leading higher education and research institution near Brighton, in the south of England.
Sussex is a leading research university, as reflected in t he 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
For REF 2021, 89% of the research we submitted was categorised ‘world-leading’ (40.6%) or ‘internationally excellent’ (48.4%).
Also, 93% of our research impact was assessed to be ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ – up from 80.7% in 2014.
Find out more about REF 2021 at the University of Sussex .
The University of Sussex has 17,765 students (2023-24 full-time equivalent figures), of which around 22% are postgraduates.
69% of our student population are UK students and 31% are overseas students.
Looking at real world issues in innovative ways , diversity in our teaching, intellectual challenge and interdisciplinarity have always been fundamental to a Sussex education.
Our goal is to deliver teaching and learning programmes informed by current research, that help our students to go out and make a positive difference to the world .
Sussex has developed a reputation for innovation and inspiration, and attracts leading thinkers and researchers.
In 2023-24 the University employed 3,825 staff which is equivalent to 2,955 full time employees.
This incorporated 1,710 staff in a Teaching or Teaching and Research role (equivalent to 1,135 full time employees).
Other staff were employed in Research only or Professional Services positions (HESA 2023-24 rounded data).
Six Nobel Prize winners have been members of staff at Sussex.
We have also had 12 Fellows of the British Academy and a winner of the prestigious Crafoord Prize on our staff.
From its foundation, Sussex has had an international perspective and fostered a diverse, multi-national community in our academic activities and outlook.
We attract staff and students from over 170 countries to our campus, and over a quarter of staff come from outside the UK.
Our research tackles major world issues with leading areas of expertise such as climate change and development studies.
We have extensive links with institutions worldwide.
To get a sense of our partners and the type of partnership work we engage in, please see our Global Engagement pages .
Sussex has one of the most beautiful campus locations in the UK.
Situated in rolling parkland on the edge of Brighton, the campus combines award-winning architecture with green open spaces.
The campus is surrounded by the South Downs National Park but just a few minutes away from the lively city of Brighton & Hove.
Designed by Sir Basil Spence, the buildings that make up the heart of the campus were given listed building status in 1993.
Falmer House is one of only two educational buildings in the UK to be Grade I-listed in recognition of its exceptional interest.
Sussex has a long tradition of engaging with business and the community , which continues today through activities such as the Sussex Innovation Centre, public lectures and services to the community.
Our goal is to help businesses and organisations in the region develop higher staff skill levels through training, and to stimulate innovation through partnership with other institutions outside Sussex to benefit the wider society.
The Sussex Innovation Centre provides support for the creation and growth of technology- and knowledge-based companies in Sussex.
The Centre is now a thriving business environment for nearly 80 high-growth companies.
Since its creation more than 160 companies have been based at the Centre; their cumulative revenue exceeds £250 million and they employ hundreds of people locally.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-funding/corporate-information:
Find out about our corporate information and key statements.
A summary of the University’s public benefit contribution can be found in our latest Financial Statements 2022-2023 [PDF 3.9MB] .
Read our Modern Slavery Act Statement [PDF 161KB] .
In accordance with the terms of the Financial Memorandum between the University of Sussex and HEFCE, the University makes available links and information concerning its status as an exempt charity under the Charities Act 2006.
This page will be updated annually:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/procurement:
If you have any issues accessing documents on this page contact suppliers@sussex.ac.uk .
The University of Sussex is committed to ensuring that all business carried out by the University, and any subsidiary companies, is conducted with integrity, transparency and fairness, and in compliance with all relevant rules, regulations and legislation.
The University and its subsidiary companies are committed to preventing the facilitation of any form of tax evasion.
The University recognises the importance of fostering positive business relationships and the need to maintain the confidence of the many institutions with which it does business.
This statement reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships (in line with the University’s Financial Regulations and associated policies), and to implementing and enforcing systems and controls that seek to ensure tax evasion is not being criminally facilitated by any of our associated persons.
For general purchases, suppliers of goods and services must be in receipt of an official purchase order from the University before any order is fulfilled or dispatched.
You must quote a purchase order number on supplier invoices, otherwise payment will not be made.
For further information on how to avoid delays in payment, please read our Faster Payment Guide [PDF 625.43KB] .
Our standard Terms and conditions of purchase [PDF 110.21KB] will apply to all purchase orders let by the University unless specifically stated otherwise in writing.
All organisations wishing to provide goods, services, or to undertake work on behalf of the University of Sussex are expected to comply with the Supplier code of conduct [PDF 426.29KB] .
Details of the University's current tenders can be found on our Supplier Network .
Companies may register their details to express an interest in tender opportunities that may be advertised from time to time.
The University of Sussex also advertises in the Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Community (OJEU) where appropriate.
Other contract opportunities can be found at the Government's supply portal, Contract Finder .
The University engages with suppliers and individuals via the Supplier Network .
This enables the University to maintain better relationships as well as easily identify businesses and individuals that it may wish to engage with in the future.
As such, we require all those with whom we do business to register on the Supplier Network .
Key benefits for suppliers and individuals include:
You have been sent this link because someone at our organisation wishes to buy your goods or services.
Until you click the link and submit your information, answering all questions, we cannot approve you into our Finance System, and will not be able to pay your invoices.
Once you are on our Finance System, your goods and services are then accessible to all of our employees.
Sometimes this email goes to SPAM, if so please move the email to your inbox as some email providers will not allow links to work if the email remains in your SPAM folder.
Do not attempt to access our portal by any means other than the link we have sent you.
Do not attempt to register yourself on the Proactis Network, this will not register you with the University.
Please put aside around 10 minutes to complete the form.
You must do this to the stage where you can set a password otherwise you will be locked out of the Portal (if this happens, email suppliers@sussex.ac.uk ).
There are a number of compulsory questions to answer before you can set a password but if you click save as you go and you can review your answers after you have done so.
Please see How to Respond to an Invitation to Engage on the Supplier Network [PDF 445KB] for further guidance.
The University will only work with those individuals and organisations who meet certain criteria around risk profiling and data management; this also includes criteria relating to our policies on working ethics (like meeting the minimum wage as an employer) and the environment.
The information we gather in this process will also determine how we work with you in future.
If you complete the process in full, your goods and services are then available in searches made by all of our staff.
If you do not complete the process, we are not able to work with your organisation.
1.
This may be because your firm is already registered on the platform and are already providing goods and services to other businesses/universities.
You will need the existing account holder within your organisation to log in and add you as a user.
If you don’t know who this is, please contact Proactis (the platform provider) on suppliersupport@proactis.com .
Please let suppliers@sussex.ac.uk and your university client know that you’ve done this.
We may be able to access who your Organisation’s existing user is to assist you.
2.
You may have already followed the link and accessed the Portal, but because you did not reach the point where you set a password the Portal has locked you out.
Please email suppliers@sussex.ac.uk so we can assist.
You must agree to our terms of purchase in order to proceed.
The University will only accept alternative terms in exceptional circumstances, i.e.
where we have a large spend with your organisation.
In this instance, if we have already agreed alternative terms with you, you can still click to agree and the alternative terms will apply.
For anything else, please email suppliers@sussex.ac.uk .
Scroll all the way to the bottom of the page and ensure you have completed the CIS Classifications box on the bottom left hand side, as it is a mandatory field.
If construction is not relevant to what you provide, select ‘none’.
You may wish to add additional users who can have access and update items in your supplier record, for example one team (member) may be responsible for updating banking information and another for Terms and Conditions.
There are two different methods for this process depending on whether you have completed Registration (and been approved as a supplier by the University) or whether you are still in the registration process.
Please see our additional guidance documents - How to Add a User in the SRM [PDF 187KB] and How to Amend Contacts and User Details [PDF 522KB] .
Please see How to Amend your Bank Details on the Supplier Network [PDF 398KB] for further guidance.
Please see our guidance documents: How to Amend Contacts and User Details [PDF 552KB] and How to Amend Other Details on the Supplier Network [PDF 317KB] for further guidance.
You can always request a new password by clicking on the link below the login field which reads ‘cannot access your account?’
You can log a ticket with the helpdesk provider .
Please see the Guide to Helpdesk Registration on the Supplier Network [PDF 1.25MB] for further guidance.
Please read the email to establish what additional information is required by the University to enable us to process the document.
Respond by clicking the Review Query link, which will show you an image of the relevant document and a field for your response.
You can also add a comment, which will be visible for us to read.
You only need to enter the 7 digit purchase order number.
The department suffix/prefix is not required for this purpose.
This means the query has been resolved so you can delete the email.
In the top section of the screen you will see comments advising what information is required from you.
There is a ‘file’ icon above the ‘your response’ field.
Click this to open or save the attached pdf document.
Email: suppliers@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/features:
Discover in-depth articles about our research, our people and our University.
As everyone who studies or works at the University of Sussex knows, it’s the people who make the place special.
Whatever their background, whatever their role, they each have a story to tell about why they are here.
Read their stories now...
The year 2021 marks the 25th anniversary of the late Professor Sir Harry Kroto FRS achieving the pinnacle of scientific achievement; securing a Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
Read more about his ground-breaking research and lasting legacy
2 May 2025
Side event with UNECE, EC and Government of Catalonia unpacks role of innovation in addressing regional challenges and improving lives of citizens.
See all research features
17 January 2025
Caroline Lucas, former MP for Brighton Pavilion, will be conferred honorary Doctor of Laws at the University of Sussex Winter Graduation.
Multi award-winning songwriter Tony Macaulay will be conferred honorary Doctor of Music at the University of Sussex Winter Graduation.
See all people features
24 June 2025
Professor Gillian Forrester is leading Science Futures at Glastonbury Festival this year.
See all University features
From Brexit to student life -  see what we're blogging about and listen to our podcasts.
News and events pages

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/features/twelve-women:
In celebration of women working in higher education, 12 female academics at the University of Sussex were invited to be part of a series of photography portraits.
Each academic was asked to choose an object with which to be photographed, that either represented an aspect of their work or had some personal significance in their career.
Some of the women are leading research in the most competitive areas; others are just starting on their journeys.
Inspired by the still and sombre paintings of 17th-century Dutch artist Rembrandt, fine-art photographer Miss Aniela created a series of portraits that captures the lives and work of these women in subtle and intriguing ways.
These portraits show not only the rich variety of disciplines in which our female academics are contributing to global knowledge, but also reveal their personal motivations.
We hope the result is an exhibition that compels the viewer to pause, absorb and reflect.
The exhibition is now permanently housed on the first floor of the University of Sussex Library.
In 2017, it was also displayed for a week in the Upper Waiting Hall within the Houses of Parliament.
Since these photographs were taken, some members of staff have changed roles or left the University, and there have been changes to some schools and departments.
“Being a pharmacist is more than learning about drugs; interaction with patients is just as important.
You have to be committed to caring about the person who is in need of pharmaceutical care.
You need to be aware of the impact you can have on those who are unwell or who have long-term health conditions.
That’s how I am and it’s what I encourage my students to be.”
“I am fascinated by human behaviour, especially in what lies behind our desire to do well.
We can never fully understand other people’s motives, but we can identify whether the motivation comes from within or from an external influence and try to work out how organisations can enhance this.
Giving employees a feeling of autonomy is the main factor.”
“I still remember it feeling like magic when I wrote my first program as a child, and earned a Brownie badge for computing.
That sense of excitement and possibility has never left me.
Technology can really empower when people are given the knowledge to understand it and tools that enable them to creatively engage with it.”
“I want students to understand why it’s important to follow the news, to know what’s going on in the world.
It concerns me that often young people declare their aversion to political things.
The media needs to be critical and engaging, but also egalitarian and representative.”
“The cross, given to me when my son was born, is an Ethiopian orthodox cross and links my time in that country with my deepest level of motivation, which is my Christian faith.
The cross is a bit like a key, so it also represents the extraordinary opportunity I have as a scientist to unlock understanding of podoconiosis, the mysterious disease I study.”
“I teach my students that playfulness and creativity is a way of engaging with people, of finding a way into their lives.
My first degree was in music and my first published academic paper looked at how music can help in social work with children.
I can see how important it is for social workers to unleash their creativity.
It breaks down barriers.
If you can be humble and playful it encourages others to be more open with you.”
“The camera for me is a symbol of what I do as an anthropologist.
It is about capturing people’s lives in a changing present.
I associate it with a sense of adventure and travel.
But I am also interested in how people use photographs to present an idealised version of themselves and their imagined futures.
I’m interested in what they choose to hide.”
“This worn copy of Samuel Beckett’s Happy Days, an hour-anda- half-long monologue by a woman buried up to her waist – then her neck – in sand, is the one I had when I performed in the play as a theatre student.
All of Beckett’s plays are about the determination to continue, the will to go on, in the face of the fundamental pointlessness and absurdity of life.
I am an absolute optimist, but a realist too, and this very much reflects my view.
I find Beckett’s work both philosophically challenging and comforting.”
“I like the idea of some kind of justice system, particularly at an international level, to provide a moral framework.
People have (and have to) become more interested and involved now in the processes of law making.
They demand debate and transparency and, in my area of international trade law and development policies, that’s vital.”
“When I learned that we had the remnants of supernovas in our bodies – that the iron in our blood has come from the death of a giant star – I felt quite overwhelmed.
It put everything into perspective.
As a physicist, I am driven to try to solve puzzles, while at the same time always looking at the bigger picture.”
“These palm leaf manuscripts, given to me by a relative ten years ago, are from my home region of Southern India and contain knowledge about plants and plant medicine.
I am researching these indigenous and colonial archives because environmental and climate change is going to hit us like a train.
We need to understand how people have lived in these environments in the past to find ways to get out of this crisis.”
“I couldn’t do my job without binoculars.
We only want to be observers but having the binoculars makes it feel much more intimate; we can get much more detailed information whilst not intruding on the animals.
These binoculars were my uncle’s and then my father’s.
I have some new, lighter ones, but I like the family association with these.”

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/features/quantum-computing-laboratory:
Researchers at the University of Sussex are working on building a quantum computer, the most powerful computer on earth.
We've designed a special installation so you can find out more about how this technology will transform our daily lives.
Unlike normal computers, quantum computers use the principles of quantum physics to carry out their calculations.
This allows them to solve problems at incredible speeds – much faster than a modern supercomputer.
The capabilities of quantum computers mean that they would have the potential to transform fields such as medicine, commerce and science.
No-one has yet managed to construct a large-scale quantum computer, but a team led by Professor Winfried Hensinger at the University of Sussex has created the first ever blueprint for how this could be achieved .
Our researchers are now constructing a prototype of a working quantum computer, and we’ve created a new pop-up installation so you can find out more about this fascinating technology.
In 2017 our scientists helped members of the public in London and Brighton to understand the mind-boggling concepts behind a quantum computer through an innovative walk-in installation.
The public could explore a virtual quantum computing laboratory and see the four key elements that make up this unbelievably fast machine – the most powerful computer in the world.
Professor Winfried Hensinger (pictured) and his team of physicists recently took their pop-up laboratory to Spitalfields Market in London.
We recently opened our pop-up quantum computer lab to the public at London’s Spitalfields Market.
The event on 11 July proved popular, and our physicists were on hand to answer questions from a range of visitors including pupils from a local school.
Professor Winfried Hensinger talks to pupils from Morpeth School in Tower Hamlets, London.
In February 2017 an international team, led by a scientist from the University of Sussex, unveiled the first practical blueprint for how to build a quantum computer.
Watch this video to learn about how quantum computers could revolutionise the fields of science, medicine and commerce.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/events:
Attend a public lecture, come to one of our astronomy evenings or visit us at an Open Day.
Whatever you want to do, there's something for everyone.
If you're thinking about undergraduate or postgraduate study we have various Open Days and campus tours throughout the year.
Read more
Our Sussex graduation ceremonies are one of the highlights of our academic year.
Find out everything you need to know to celebrate it with us.
Monday 8 December from 18:30 until 19:30
All are welcome to the university’s beautiful traditional candle-lit Christmas Carol Service, a wonderful event with festive music
See all University events
info@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 606755

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/graduation:
Discover how to prepare for your graduation, as well as other details about our summer and winter ceremonies.
Find out dates, times and details for our Summer 2026 ceremony.
Find out dates, times and details for our Winter 2026 ceremony.
Confirm your attendance, book guest tickets and hire your gown.
When to arrive, collecting your gown and getting your photo taken.
Souvenirs, ceremony videos and alumni opportunities.
Need to plan ahead?
Find out about future dates for Sussex graduation ceremonies .
Read their stories
Volunteering for graduation?
Register as academic or professional services staff .
You'll need to log in.
Email graduation@sussex.ac.uk Call +44 (0)1273 877015
More contact details .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/events/sussex-lectures:
Experience one of our engaging public lectures.
From law to medicine and the arts to the sciences, you'll find something to inspire you.
The Sussex lectures provide an opportunity for our world-class academics and renowned guest speakers to share their research with staff, students and the wider community.
These lectures are open to the general public and are free to attend.
These public lectures promote our excellent research and teaching, and provide opportunities for the wider community to come and experience academia.
You can sign up to receive information about our lectures below.
Experience one of our public lectures
Sign up to receive information about our lectures
Take your opportunity to ask leading Sussex experts the questions that matter to you in our series of live Ask The Experts events.
Find out details of our next event and listen to previous events with our Ask The Experts podcast.
You can watch or listen to some of our previous lectures here.
All of our lectures open in YouTube, SoundCloud or an MP3 file.
View all of our lectures in our archive
info@sussex.ac.uk 01273 606755

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/events/science-talks:
Sussex Universe is the public lectures series of the science departments at the University of Sussex.
This series brings together world-class academics and experts from diverse STEM fields to share their groundbreaking research with the general public.
Our mission is to inspire curiosity, spark dialogue and cultivate a passion for learning science.
Whether you’re a student, a researcher or a member of the public, these evening lectures are for you.
Check out our upcoming events and book your seat now.
Learn about our latest science research
Stay informed about our science events
If you couldn’t attend some of our past lectures in person, you can watch them now on YouTube .
A list of the topics covered in past lectures is available in our archive .
universe@sussex.ac.uk 01273 606755

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/media-centre:
Get up-to-date with the latest news from Sussex.
Our media team can put you in touch with world-leading academics and help drive your news agenda with our groundbreaking research.
See our stories from Sussex
Get in touch with our media team
Search for press releases
See our academics talking about their research
See our guidelines for filming on campus

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/media-centre/contact-us:
Whether you’re a journalist looking for an expert, or a member of staff looking for help communicating your latest research, our media team are on hand to help.
Each member of the team is responsible for different schools of study and areas of the university.
If you're a journalist with a query, please email press@sussex.ac.uk or get in touch with a member of the team directly.
You can also call us on 01273 877966.
Please use this number for urgent out of hours queries.
Florence Gallien Head of Media and Social Media (Interim) Institutional lead for press office and social media F.Gallien@sussex.ac.uk / 07826 391054
Meganne Tillay Media Relations Manager (Interim) Engineering and Informatics | Life Sciences | University-wide stories M.Tillay@sussex.ac.uk
Imogen Harris Media Relations Manager (Wednesday-Friday) Media, Arts and Humanities | Psycholog y Imogen.Harris@sussex.ac.uk
Tom Latchem Media Relations Manager (Monday-Wednesday) Mathematical and Physical Sciences | Psychology T.Latchem@sussex.ac.uk
Tom Walters Media Relations Manager (Youth) Global Studies | Education and Social Work | Law, Politics and Sociology | Youth-focused media T.C.Walters@sussex.ac.uk
Vicky Welstead Media Relations Manager University of Sussex Business School V.Welstead@sussex.ac.uk
Jonathan Street Associate Director of Communications J.Street@sussex.ac.uk
If you want to communicate information to our staff and/or students, or you are a member of staff and need advice about handling internal communications, email internalcomms@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/media-centre/press-releases:
Please go to the University archive pages to view all Press releases

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/media-centre/hear-from-our-experts:
Our academics are helping to influence government policy, advise on climate change and build a sustainable future.
Watch our academics talk about their research online, or read about our experts in The Conversation.
Contact one of our experts
Our academics talk about their research

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/media-centre/filming-guidelines:
With our Grade I listed buildings, close proximity to Brighton, and the South Downs National Park on our doorstep, Sussex is an ideal place for a filming project.
If you are looking to film on campus, see our permission and procedures below.
We frequently receive requests from TV and film production companies who would like to use the location, our buildings, grounds, staff and students for film shoots.
While we welcome requests, it is a busy working environment and these guidelines are designed to ensure that the University's interests are maintained and that its normal activities are not disrupted.
If you would like to film on campus contact press@sussex.ac.uk or call us on (+44) 01273 678888.
Large-scale filming can only take place with our written permission and we must have at least six weeks notice of any proposed filming activity.
Shorter notice periods will be considered at our discretion and will depend on the time and effort required to ensure the proposed filming meets our guidelines.
To request permission to film at Sussex you must give us:
If the proposed filming is likely to have a negative impact on the reputation of the University, permission will not be given.
If permission is granted in principle to film at Sussex, you'll also need to:
No filming can take place without a signed contract of the terms agreed between the University and the production company.
The contract will usually include a number of terms and conditions [PDF 82KB] (please pay particular attention to those concerning liability).
If you want to visit us or have questions about where to film on campus, contact press@sussex.ac.uk .
Any rental fee (for example porter hire, room bookings or University administration) for the use of the University’s property is at our discretion.
The Filming Co-ordinator [FC] will agree this with the production company before filming commences.
If you are a journalist and would like to film on campus as part of a media report, we will normally do our best to accommodate this without charge.
press@sussex.ac.uk (+44) 01273 678888

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/blogs:
From student life to global politics, at Sussex our diverse community are talking about the issues that matter to them and you.
These blogs and podcasts are the personal views of the individuals featured and do not necessarily represent the opinions or position of the University.
No warranty is given about the accuracy of any information in these materials and any reliance you place on them is done at your own risk.
Each episode of our podcast showcases researchers at the University of Sussex and considers the impact their work is having in the world.
Hear from Sussex academics about their own commercialisation journeys, diving deep to uncover the challenges and milestones faced, experiencing real stories behind the spinouts.
Through talking to fellow Sussex alumni, our Entrepreneur in Residence Sara Osterholzer explores how we can build better businesses, aiming to contribute to developing the knowledge and skills of Sussex students.
Our Ask The Experts events give you the chance to ask leading Sussex experts the questions that matter to you.
Listen to past events in our podcast.
In our podcasts, faculty from the Sussex Centre for American Studies talk to a range of experts and commentators about Trump.
We present the American political scene in its many contexts and cultures and in surprising and informative ways.
Explore what could happen after Brexit
See blog posts from our students
See blogs from our academics
See our work on sustainability
See how we're creating sustainable energy systems

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/global-engagement:
Our commitment to internationalisation is reflected in our engagement with partners around the world.
At Sussex we are committed to developing and maintaining relationships with a network of partners who share our commitment to building a better world.
Find out how we're aspiring to grow our global reputation, attract the best students from around the world and enhance our students global experience.
Watch our video to see more about our five year plan.
11 July 2025
Ahead of the launch of the seven year review report of the SSRP, Sephora Imomoh discusses the SSRP approach to engendering equitable partnerships.
30 June 2025
Black at Sussex programme is proud to launch an open call for Black guest lecturers to contribute to transforming the Black experience at Sussex.
globalengagement@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/explore-our-research:
You can browse our research by subject area below.
*Photo by Greg Rakozy on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/impossible-until-done:
Our Centres of Excellence are the University’s pillars of research strength.
They help us drive progress for our planet and its people – and inspire us to see that a challenge is only impossible until it's done.
Water pollution is a major issue of public concern.
This project is bringing together the local community in Sussex to monitor water health and share findings with governing bodies.
Tellmi is a safe, anonymous App for young people experiencing mental health difficulties.
Our academics are leading research to improve how the App operates and makes referrals to the in-house counsellors.
Find out more about our AI activity.
To improve treatments for neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s, we must first understand the causes.
Our researchers are studying the underlying triggers for dementia, paving the way for new treatments.
[INTRO MUSIC: Anthemic inspirational music plays]
On-screen text:
Progressive
Imaginative
International
Influential
Research at Sussex
PROGRESS in new technologies, science, AI and data analysis
PLANET environmental sustainability and climate change
[Birds flapping with visuals of a flock of birds flying in slow motion]
PEOPLE [slide project sound as the text People slides onto screen]
helping people and communities to flourish
TRAILBLAZING world firsts in quantum computing
[Sci-fi clicks and beeps as laboratory visuals cut together]
INSPIRING global policy changes on sustainability
LEADING the world for international development
[waves sounds with slow motion waves crashing]
BELIEVING [whoosh as the camera zooms from space to planet Earth]
“It’s only impossible until it’s done”
Progress for planet and people
[END CARD: University of Sussex logo, with text ‘Impossible until it’s done’ and URL ‘sussex.ac.uk/impossible’]
Our Centres of Excellence each undertake highly innovative and potentially transformative research.
They have been created to provide an environment and culture where researchers can truly believe a challenge is only impossible until it’s done.
Explore our Centres below.
Addressing global health and wellbeing challenges including infectious diseases and neglected tropical diseases.
Exploring issues like wellbeing, climate change and technology, we give children a voice in the research and policy that directly affects them.
With a track record of pioneering research, we are making a positive difference to policy, practice in some of the most marginalised communities across the globe.
We examine DNA damage and repair, and their impact on genome stability to gain groundbreaking insights into genetic diseases.
Whether developing or applying AI, we work to solve real-world problems.
Through a deeper understanding of the nature of conscious experience, our research has benefits for technology, medicine and society.
Addressing socially relevant questions about migrants and the consequences of migration.
Harnessing quantum physics research to create transformational products that are likely to change the way we live and work.
In a rapidly evolving, increasingly digital world, we investigate the opportunities and implications for contemporary society.
Bringing together science, engineering and medicine to advance our understanding of the brain and nervous system to benefit society at large.
A catalyst for innovative and interdisciplinary research, tackling global and local sustainability challenges for humanity and the environment.
At the heart of our work there is a commitment to provide independent research and expert analysis on trade policy that benefits the UK, the EU and the world.
Hear from the world-leading researchers within our Centres of Excellence.
Learn about the impossible challenges they are taking on and how each Centre is driving progress for our planet and its people.
Professor Paul Statham: We tend not to see things as being impossible.
[Intro MUSIC: Whoosh sound effect into plucked strings]
[TITLE CARD ‘Impossible until it’s done’]
Professor Julie Weeds: Whenever I’m told that something’s impossible, I’ve viewed it as a challenge.
Dr Liam Berriman: It’s thinking about how we can go beyond, thinking about what comes next.
Professor Paul Statham: Something seems to be impossible you try and do it.
[MUSIC: Whoosh sound effect into building strings]
[TITLE CARD: ‘Centre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youth’
Dr Liam Berriman: Voices of children remain amongst the most marginalised in policy and decision making in the UK.
[MUSIC: Whoosh sound effect into old detuned piano playing nostalgic chords]
Dr Liam Berriman: How children and young people experience society in this data driven and digital era is a key element of our work.
We need to explore their perspective on the world and to do that in a very creative and innovative way.
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Dr Liam Berriman Director, Centre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youth’]
[MUSIC: Whoosh sound effect into staccato piano twinkling]
Dr Liam Berriman: My research involves gathering the voices of children and young people, as well as their families and carers and those who work with them, to improve how they’re treated, how they can access specialist services and how policies can be developed to best meet their needs.
Since so much of their lives involves data being gathered about them, we’re also concerned with how this information is used, particularly for the purpose of safeguarding.
At our centre we can make the world a better place in terms of wanting meaningful change in their lives.
[MUSIC: Whoosh sound effect into impact hits]
[TITLE CARD: ‘Sussex Artificial Intelligence’]
[MUSIC: Brooding mysterious music]
Professor Julie Weeds: To ensure that AI is used for the good of humanity, we need to make sure that we understand what it is and how it is being used to make decisions.
It’s not going to go away, AI, we can’t put it back in the box.
At Sussex AI it’s about understanding how to use it in a way that benefits everybody.
Being part of it, rather than letting it scare you.
[MUSIC: Whoosh and flutter sound effect with new mysterious electronic music]
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Julie Weeds Co-Director, Sussex AI’]
Professor Julie Weeds: I’m collaborating with a company that’s developing a mental health app for social media users.
Through monitoring the language of posts, the app aims to identify young people who are struggling.
And like many applications, it’s critical to keep human experts in the loop.
So rather than replacing us, AI is there to support us.
[MUSIC: Whoosh sound effect into moody, inspiring string music]
[TITLE CARD: ‘Sussex Centre for Migration’]
Professor Paul Statham: There’s kind of the politics of migration at the moment, but then there is actually the facts of migration.
[MUSIC: Inspirational ambient orchestral music]
Professor Paul Statham: Sussex set up a centre for migration research 25 years ago, when migrants and refugees moving across the globe wasn't so talked about.
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Paul Statham, Director of Sussex Centre for Migration Research’]
Professor Paul Statham: Now we're still at the cutting edge and still doing things differently.
We focus on the relationship between migration and development and how we can help the groups and communities affected.
[MUSIC: Triumphant and uplifting music begins with a keyboard synth]
Professor Paul Statham: Through our relationship with Mahidol University in Thailand, we've highlighted how mass tourism, annually 40 million people move in and out of Thailand, has led to the exploitation of low paid women who have no social protection.
We've also shown how marriage migration can adversely affect their families, their children and their own fate further down the line.
Our focus on gender and sexualities extends to LGBTQI+ migrants and asylum seekers in our own region too, who also face prejudice and discrimination.
All of this is creating a greater understanding of one of the key topics shaping our world today.
[MUSIC: A final positive chord plays on a keyboard]
[END CARD: University of Sussex logo ‘Impossible until it’s done ’ with URL sussex.ac.uk/impossible]
Professor Michael Gasiorek: When somebody says impossible to me, I always think.
But is it really impossible?
[Intro MUSIC: Light and upbeat instrumental]
Professor Linda Morrice: We just need the right approach and to ask the right questions.
Professor Michael Gasiorek: There are usually solutions to what you might think is impossible.
Professor Anil Seth: With dividing the problem in different ways the impossible can often be made possible.
[MUSIC: Whooshing]
[TITLE CARD: ‘Sussex Centre for Consciousness Science’]
Professor Anil Seth: One of the greatest unsolved mysteries in science and philosophy
[MUSIC: Rising mysteriously]
Professor Anil Seth: is how conscious experiences arise from the biology of our brains and our bodies.
[MUSIC: Boom sound effect into stirring piano score]
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Anil Seth - Director, Sussex Centre for Consciousness Science’]
Professor Anil Seth: The Sussex Centre for Consciousness Science aims to unravel this mystery.
My own theory is that conscious experiences are best explained as forms of controlled hallucinations.
[Echoes of Anil’s voice tails off “hallucinations”]
Professor Anil Seth: We brought together researchers from many different disciplines, from neuroscience to philosophy, mathematics to psychiatry
[Camera shutter noises as we flick through still photos of the subjects]
Professor Anil Seth: to get new insights and helping to drive applications in technology, medicine and society.
[Camera shutter noises as we flick through still photos of the applications]
[MUSIC: Upbeat world influenced track]
Professor Anil Seth: At Sussex we recently led a project called the Perception Census, investigating how we each experience a unique world.
Professor Anil Seth: In less than two years we've had more than 33,000 people take part from over a hundred countries.
The results could transform our understanding of how and why we each experience the world in our own distinctive way.
[TITLE CARD: ‘Centre for International Education’]
[MUSIC: Gentle piano]
Professor Linda Morrice: In the Centre for International Education, we work across six continents
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Linda Morrice, Co-Director, Centre for International Education’]
Professor Linda Morrice: and we work with some of the most marginalised and vulnerable communities.
[MUSIC: Deep boom as we see a photograph of a woman holding a baby]
Professor Linda Morrice: women
[Camera shutter noise as we see a photograph of a group of women refugees]
Professor Linda Morrice: refugees
[Camera shutter noise as we see a photograph of a group of school children]
Professor Linda Morrice: Children who are most likely to be excluded from education.
If we want a more socially just society, we have to provide education for all.
[MUSIC: Crescendos as we see Professor Linda Morrice looking over a map]
Professor Linda Morrice: When refugees arrive in new countries, there is an initial urgency to find shelter and attend to their physical needs.
Professor Linda Morrice: But there's growing recognition of the critical importance of education.
[MUSIC: Light reverb as Professor Linda Morrice looks through a pile of photographs]
Professor Linda Morrice: Our research in the Centre for International Education
[Camera shutter noise as we see a photograph of children at school]
Professor Linda Morrice: has shown that successful integration is dependent on refugees being able to speak the native language of their new home.
[MUSIC: Light reverb]
Professor Linda Morrice: This enables them to engage in education, to find jobs, access health care and services, really feel part of the community.
Professor Linda Morrice: Overall
[Camera shutter noise as we see a photograph of a man and woman shopping for fresh produce at a food market]
Professor Linda Morrice: refugees with higher levels
[Camera shutter noise as we see a photograph of a family walking along the seafront in Brighton]
Professor Linda Morrice: of language, experience better wellbeing.
[TITLE CARD: ‘UK Trade Policy Observatory’]
[MUSIC: Atmospheric drone]
Professor Michael Gasiorek: The need for rigorous, innovative research and impartial analysis is greater than ever.
[MUSIC: Swell and whoosh into dramatic string score]
Professor Michael Gasiorek: The UK Trade Policy Observatory
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Michael Gasiorek - Director, UK Trade Policy Observatory’]
Professor Michael Gasiorek: at the University of Sussex came together the day after the referendum to leave the EU.
The decision was so momentous…
[Whoosh sound effect with camera shutter clicks as we see British monuments]
Professor Michael Gasiorek: It involved the UK taking control of its own trade policy.
Our experts, probably the biggest collection of academics in the UK working on trade, are increasing the field of knowledge and finding new results that genuinely impact on policy making.
[Whoosh sound effect with knife slice, we see a machete cut into a piece of fruit in the jungle]
[MUSIC: Deep brooding atmospheric score]
Professor Michael Gasiorek: We have helped to shape thinking on UK trade policy issues like reducing carbon emissions and the Northern Ireland's post-Brexit arrangements.
Professor Michael Gasiorek: Trade policy decisions will influence social, economic and welfare outcomes for generations to come.
[Swelling whoosh crescendo]
Professor Keith Caldecott: Some things are impossible, but if they're seemingly impossible, there's usually a way around it and you just have to find out what the best way is.
​​[Intro MUSIC: Light and upbeat instrumental]
Professor Louise Serpell: Impossible is a challenge.
It makes us want to work harder to try and overcome that.
Professor Joseph Alcamo: It's a word that people use who are sceptical of the fact that we can have a positive future.
[Camera shutter noise]
[TITLE CARD: ‘Sussex Neuroscience’]
Professor Louise Serpell: Our great strength within Sussex Neuroscience is that we're working together in complementary ways to understand brain processes.
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Louise Serpell, Co-Director, Sussex Neuroscience’]
Professor Louise Serpell: There's people from all different disciplines who are developing new methods to try and understand diseases -
Professor Louise Serpell: And how the brain works.
Professor Louise Serpell: We can build on those developments -
Professor Louise Serpell: So that we can then go on to create better treatments.
[MUSIC: Pulsing into electronic buzz]
Professor Louise Serpell: We're at an amazing stage of developing drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease.
[MUSIC: Uplifting strings]
Professor Louise Serpell: Our work involves targeting a protein called tau -
Professor Louise Serpell: Which is involved in the process that destroys brain cells.
[MUSIC: Strings intensify]
Professor Louise Serpell: There's been a lot of excitement about the first anti-tau disease modifying drug.
We're still a way off from being able to prevent or completely cure Alzheimer's, but the future is looking positive.
[TITLE CARD: ‘Sussex Sustainability Research Programme’]
[MUSIC: Gentle strings]
Professor Joseph Alcamo: We believe that we can reach a sustainable future with a new approach to research.
[Deep boom noise]
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Joseph Alcamo, Director, Sussex Sustainability Research Programme’]
Professor Joseph Alcamo: Here at the University of Sussex, we combine development studies and environmental research into a dynamic programme of sustainability research.
Professor Joseph Alcamo: It helps to bring the expertise together that we need in order to tackle one of the great challenges of our times -
[Gritty noise with video footage of a person grasping a handful of dirt]
Professor Joseph Alcamo: Achieving the sustainable development goals.
[High-pitched click]
Professor Joseph Alcamo: We're beginning to see this payoff in projects from all around the world.
[MUSIC: Light emotional chords]
Professor Joseph Alcamo: For example, in the woodlands of Ecuador, we have projects training young people to collect critical biodiversity data that's then used by Ecuadorians to contest in the courts, the destruction of their own woodlands by mining.
[MUSIC: Slows]
Professor Joseph Alcamo: In the drylands of Kenya and Tanzania, we're using the most advanced sciences to improve early warning of imminent droughts.
And we're also working on the ground with pastoral farmers to make sure that these warnings reach them.
This research is showing how science can advance the wellbeing of both people and planet.
[TITLE CARD: ‘Genome Damage and Stability Centre’]
Professor Keith Caldecott: When you realise that your discoveries can have a direct impact on people's health, it's incredibly rewarding.
[Deep rumble]
[ON SCREEN TEXT: ‘Professor Keith Caldecott, Co-Director, Genome Damage and Stability Centre’]
Professor Keith Caldecott: My team's research in the Genome Damage and Stability Centre is focused on understanding how faulty DNA repair causes human genetic diseases.
Professor Keith Caldecott: We're gene hunters -
Professor Keith Caldecott: Identifying new genes and their roles -
Professor Keith Caldecott: In maintaining genome stability.
Professor Keith Caldecott: If your genome becomes damaged, it can cause cancer, it can cause neurodegeneration.
So everybody in the genome centre is working on some aspect of how our genomes are maintained in a stable state and transmitted faithfully from one generation to the next.
[MUSIC: Intensifies]
Professor Keith Caldecott: It's having that critical mass that really makes us world leading and why we stand out on the international stage.
[MUSIC: Light bubbly track]
Professor Keith Caldecott: Our laboratory's research discovered a number of novel human genes that previously were not known to exist.
And in identifying those genes and working out what they do, we've discovered a number of human genetic diseases that arise in people, particularly children.
[MUSIC: Increases in volume]
Professor Keith Caldecott: And so now, knowing which genes cause those diseases allows us to advise clinicians and also hopefully in the future find cures for those diseases.
[END CARD: University of Sussex logo ‘Impossible until it’s done ’ with URL sussex.ac/impossible]
Professor Gail Davey OBE: When I think about impossible, I think of lack of imagination.
[Screen reads 'Impossible until it's done']
Professor Winfried Hensinger: When people tell me something can't be done, I just love to try.
Professor Alice Eldridge: Don't think anyone's ever told me something's impossible.
Professor Gail Davey OBE: I don't usually see it as a a barrier.
I just think there must be other ways of doing something.
[Screen reads 'Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies]
Professor Winfried Hensinger: Quantum physics is a theory that governs everything around us, every process in nature.
Quantum computers will enable us to investigate the fabric of reality to create a better future.
[Caption reads Professor Winfried Hensinger, Director of the Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies]
Professor Winfried Hensinger: I've spent 20 years working with colleagues to understand and develop the science.
Now we are building a full scale quantum computer that will be able to find the answers to some of the most urgent technical challenges of our time.
From designing drugs for healthcare to making aircraft engines more fuel efficient.
University of Sussex has become a powerhouse for quantum technology.
We've launched the world's first quantum technology undergraduate degree, where students carry out research from day one, and we have vital links with industry to make amazing things happen.
[Screen reads: Sussex Digital Humanities Lab]
Professor Alice Eldridge: We are entering the sixth great extinction.
We need to know what is happening in our forests, our farmland, our oceans, and our soil and ecosystems.
[Caption reads 'Professor Alice Eldridge, Co-director of Sussex Digital Humanities Lab]
Professor Alice Eldridge: Our work in ecoacoustics aims to develop tools to listen into the soundscape that emerges from an ecosystem as a way to understand its health.
Listening to these soundscapes we find helps people connect with nature and remember that they're a part of, not apart from the rest of the living world.
Our research centre brings together experts from arts and humanities, computing and social sciences, remixing those disciplines to solve the challenges that we are facing.
The next generation of tools for planetary care will be co-created with scientific and traditional ecological knowledges.
We hope to create a world where people and planet thrive as one.
[Screen reads 'Centre for Global Health Research']
Professor Gail Davey OBE: Podoconiosis can lead to an inability to walk, to work, and to being ostracised by others.
It's a disease that affects four million in some of the world's poorest countries.
[Caption reads 'Professor Gail Davey OBE, Co-director of Centre for Global Health Research]
Professor Gail Davey OBE: Podoconiosis is fundamentally about health inequity around the world.
The great challenge has been raising awareness, so governments know this condition exists.
When you realise that a young teenager is about to commit suicide because of a disease that could have been prevented, had she had access to shoes, then you realise there's something wrong with the world.
And I think that is a huge motivation to put that right.
Within the Centre for Global Health Research at Sussex, we have an aim, which is to eliminate podoconiosis within our lifetimes.
That is achievable and I'm committed to continuing work until that goal happens.
[END CARD: University of Sussex logo, with text ‘Impossible until it’s done’ and URL ‘ sussex.ac.uk/impossible ’]

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/about:
We are building a kind, collaborative and open research community, because a supportive environment makes exceptional research possible.
Research culture is a broad term that, according to the Royal Society definition , encompasses the behaviours, values, expectations, attitudes and norms of our research communities.
Recognising and rewarding our researchers at the Research Culture and Research Impact Awards is just one of the ways we are endeavouring to foster a thriving research culture.
Openness, integrity, collegiality and leading by example are among the shared values we champion.
Mahmoud Bakar Maina: I won the Outstanding Early Career Impact award
Joanna Smallwood: I'm part of a team that won the Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration Award.
Charlotte Rae: I won the award for Best Commercial Impact
Dominique Makowski: I won the Openness in Research Award
Tom Wright: I'm delighted to have won the Research Award for Interdisciplinary Impact
Ali Lacey: We won the Ethical Research Award.
Katherine Blackadder: I was excited to win the Professional Services Impact Champion award.
Mahmoud Bakar Maina: So winning this award means many things to us.
For one, it helps in increasing the visibility of this work, which is so so important, especially for an early career researcher like myself, because it means perhaps recognition from funders, from the top players in the field, which means more collaboration and eventually more impact towards this work that we are undertaking.
Tom Wright: We're delighted to receive this award because it helps us develop our work with teachers across Britain.
Dominique Makowski: This award is a fantastic recognition for us because it shows that the University of Sussex doesn't only value the research output per se, but also all the ground work that makes science possible.
Ali Lacey: because it really underlines, I think, the university's commitment to the research process and not just to outcomes and results.
Charlotte Rae: The university provides fantastic support for us as academics to get out there into the real world.
Our research culture team have already funded many exciting projects to bring initiatives to fruition, enable collaboration and solve problems.
We are also working to celebrate examples of great culture in practice, including in depth case studies, news articles, events and awards.
Our Research Culture Steering Group guides our programme and our enabling plan details the practical tasks based on four priority areas.
Our Research Culture highlights are:
For further information, view a full list of funded projects .
Learn more about our four priority areas and the Research Culture Steering Group
Research and Innovation Services sits at the heart of research and knowledge exchange activities at the University of Sussex
The University of Sussex is committed to promoting and upholding the highest quality academic and ethical standards in all its activities
Dr Dominique Makowski: Our Openness award winner tells all about his groundbreaking tools for Open Science
Our Collaboration award winner on the interdisciplinary power behind her shared project, the Andean Bear Research Action Group
Demonstrating how people across our research community can provide an invaluable contribution towards a thriving research culture.
Our small but mighty team have a broad range of experience.
We are continuously communicating and collaborating with professional services staff and academics across the university to make sure that enhancing research culture is a priority.
We are here to listen.
If you have any thoughts or ideas about improving research culture at Sussex, please get in touch!
Senior Research Culture Consultant
Lorna has worked at Sussex since 2020, initially developing collaboration and impact in Social Sciences through the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (having earlier managed the IAA at Birmingham and Oxford).
Lorna took on the new challenge of Research Culture in 2023 and is keen to make research at all career stages accessible to a broader range of people, as well as to support Open Research practices to build knowledge equity.
Email: l.hards@sussex.ac.uk
Senior Research Culture Officer
Alice worked in publishing for over 10 years, as an Editor and Commissioning Editor, before joining Sussex in July 2024.
Having previously studied for a degree in philosophy, she is particularly interested in the ethics of Research Culture, as well as being passionate about EDI and Open Research.
Alice is the university ORCA (Open Research Coordinator and Administrator) for UKRN.
Email: a.sambrook@sussex.ac.uk
Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor Research
Seb is Chair of the Research Culture Steering Group.
He leads on preparations for the next submission to the Research Excellence Framework; developing and implementing an improved Research Culture and institutional demand management processes.
He also moonlights as a Professor of Astrophysics.
Email: s.oliver@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/centres:
Browse our Centres of Excellence, research centres and groups.
Our Centres of Excellence are drawing together world-leading experts and innovative approaches, creating a critical mass of knowledge, skills and training.
Browse our Centres of Excellence below.
Our research centres and groups are interdisciplinary groups, working on collaborative, world-leading research in new or emerging areas of opportunity.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/schools:
Find out about our schools of study, which are contributing knowledge and solutions that will help to shape the world.
Visit the University of Sussex Business School website .
Visit the School of Education and Social Work website .
Visit the School of Engineering and Informatics website .
Visit the School of Global Studies website .
Visit the School of Law, Politics and Sociology website .
Visit the School of Mathematics and Physical Sciences website .
Visit the School of Media, Arts and Humanities website .
Undergraduate research enquiries: undergraduate-research@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/directory:
You should use keywords associated with the area of research you are interested in.
Research development enquiries: research_support@sussex.ac.uk
Find out about Research and Innoavtion

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/publications:
Search for University research publications, research data and theses using Figshare.
Figshare is the University's research repository.
It includes publications, data, theses and the artefacts that make up our research.
You can browse by groups or search using the filters.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/full-news-list:
Items 1 to 9 of 291
<< First < Previous | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | Next > Last >>
24 July 2025
At a side event at the annual UN General Assembly, the SSRP and the UK Mission to the UN launched a new report on how to accelerate the SDGs
A new international study has introduced Curved Neural Networks: a new type of AI memory architecture inspired by ideas from geometry.
18 July 2025
RE:PLAY: National project researching playful learning in HE.
Seeking module leaders for 2025-27 to redesign courses with support.
16 July 2025
A team of researchers at Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS) launched the ARC KSS Data Science Hub.
14 July 2025
The Summer of Research session celebrated this year's Women's Leadership Academy and considered what a diverse academic career could look like

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/contact-us:
Research and Innovation Services sits at the heart of research and knowledge exchange activities at the University of Sussex.
Find out more about Research and Innovation .
Explore our research .
General press enquiries: Visit our Media Centre
You can also search our list of key contacts in the division.
For general research enquiries please call: 01273 877 613.
You can also search our directory of expertise to find researchers relevant to your field of interest.
Research at Sussex - a fortnightly round-up of research news
Sign up for our fortnightly research newsletter .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business:
Our research, consultancy, technology, know-how, spin-outs and training are transforming industry, manufacturing and business – helping people and their organisations achieve their goals.
Find out how we can help you below.
Our innovation and business team can put you in touch with experts who can help you meet your objectives.
From business solutions to recruiting our talented students, we can help you create a strategy to succeed.
Contact us at: collaborate@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business/expertise-consulting-commission:
Find out how we can help you grow your organisation by connecting you with our people and their cutting edge expertise.
We can undertake research to overcome a complex technical challenge, or on a consultancy basis, help to apply the latest knowledge to your business.
We have a strong track record of working with a range of partners, including multi-national businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Our regular collaborations with local government, industry associations and private investors ensure that our expertise is grounded in today’s challenges.
We collaborate with organisations across the spectrum enabling people to flourish in sustainable ways.
See examples of how we collaborate below.
We can tailor our support to suit your business needs.
Our experts from the School of Life Sciences and Brighton and Sussex Medical School undertake research in our state-of-the-art Medical Research Building.
Our experts in Neuroscience collaborate with pharmaceutical firms and health providers to tackle addiction, mental health and dementia.
Our Clinical Imaging Sciences Centre (CISC) is an interdisciplinary research and imaging facility.
If you partner with us, you will have access to a 3T MRI scanner as well as  the Centre’s other testing facilities, seminar rooms and draw upon a dynamic range of researchers.
Academics working in the Media, Arts and Humanities have developed partnerships with major national organisations such as Shakespeare’s Globe and the RSC, the Wellcome Trust, British Museum, the National Poetry Library, the Photographers’ Gallery, and The Freud Museum and the V&A.
Two faculty members contributed expertise to the blockbuster (and Covid delayed) ‘Alice: Curiouser and Curiouser’ exhibition.
Our psychologists offer consultancy and training in neuromarketing, safety, human resources and interviewing training as well as user-centred design.
Large events companies have benefited from our crowd research and our academics have helped many international businesses, professional sports and military teams transform their performance.
Quantum Science offers genuine game changing opportunities for business.
Academics from Neuroscience, Engineering, Informatics, Life Sciences, Medicine and Psychology collaborate with businesses to link enabling and foundational science with quantum device development, realising applications that range in scope from human brain activity mapping to next generation touch screens, and from microscopic imaging of molecular motors to quantum radar.
The University of Sussex Business School have strengths across the ‘traditional’ business disciplines – including accounting, finance, international business, management, marketing and strategy.
It is also renowned for expertise in three interdisciplinary areas: energy, sustainability and innovation.
The Business School operates a Digital Futures at Work Research Centre , which looks at how technology is changing work.
Researchers are developing new rapid recruitment techniques using automated interviews and exploring ways to implement new technologies.
Read more about the Business School.
Our consultancy services provide dedicated expertise, whether you need to solve a complex technical challenge affecting the efficiency of your firm’s production processes or develop new policies and systems.
Employing an academic consultant will bring expert knowledge, and provide an expert voice, to your organisation.
As a University, we offer independence and freedom from commercial conflicts.
We can put you in touch with the best suited academic – or assemble a team to combine expertise – to solve your business challenge.
See the packages we offer to businesses below.
Experts at the Data Intensive Science Centre at the University have designed two off-the-shelf offers for businesses:
Our academics undertake research to push the boundaries of knowledge and regularly support businesses on a consultancy arrangement.
Recent bespoke consulting assignments for business include:
We have world-class research capabilities so we can partner with you to perform your research and development (R&D).
If you are looking to revitalise your R&D, we offer a track record of working over a number of years with businesses as they seek to deepen their competitiveness.
Collaborations include:
Advanced Material Development Ltd have partnered with academics from the Materials Physics Group at Sussex to undertake research at our laboratories on campus to generate a number of new nano-scale technological solutions.
Nanomaterials are tiny, some 10,000 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair.
Making things stronger and lighter offers commercial benefits to many industries.
The research has pioneered a way of producing nanomaterial inks – stable liquid dispersions with a range of nanomaterials – and assembling them into coatings which can be placed on a range of substrates using commercial printing techniques, such as ink-jet printing.
Read more about AMD and its work with Sussex .
CDO2 Ltd develops electronic measuring and testing equipment and has been collaborating with researchers at Sussex to build quantum sensors to test the health of electric batteries.
Our collaboration will streamline the battery development process.
Normally, electric batteries are left to develop at a warm temperature and are assumed to be ready after several weeks.
But with the new quantum sensors, the batteries can be tested for their readiness in real-time, potentially speeding the production process from weeks to days.
This means they’ll be useable more quickly, and more batteries can be created in the meantime.
It’ll save factory space and energy costs too.
We have also established a Centre for Quantum Technologies, where eight research groups are harnessing and exploiting quantum physics research in order to create transformational commercial products with the potential to change the way we live and work.
This has led to research collaborations with the world’s leading computing businesses, as well as the University’s own spin out company, Universal Quantum.
Read more about Universal Quantum and about CDO2 .
113 Botanicals Ltd conducts much of its ongoing R&D work with Sussex.
113 Botanicals' mission is to harness scientific expertise to develop high quality cannabis-based pharmaceutical medicines (CBPMs), and innovative routes of administration, all with a focus on safety, efficacy and affordability.
113 Botanicals collaborate with the Nobel Prize winning Department of Chemistry, and other departments in the School of Life Sciences, to conduct ongoing research into novel and innovative aspects of cannabis process technology and medicinal cannabis .
A  dedicated laboratory situated within the Department of Chemistry is available to researchers.
The extensive state-of-the-art university facilities includes:
This, combined with the wealth of knowledge from our talented, multi-disciplinary team of Sussex academics, gave the perfect framework and apparatus to 113 Botanicals' R&D.
Find out more about 113 Botanicals .
Moogsoft has been commissioning research activities at Sussex and, specifically, the School of Engineering and Informatics since 2008.
Moogsoft offers solutions to IT teams who are responsible for the performance of their organisation’s IT systems.
Its solution applies machine learning algorithms to maintain the highest systems availability by identifying root cause and remediation faster.
Moogsoft has recruited PhD students, organised the Mathematics of Networks workshop and offered summer placements to undergraduate students.
It also collaborated with the University on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership funded by Innovate UK.
The relationship with Moogsoft has recently developed further when the University invited Phil Tee (CEO Moogsoft) to take up the position as Entrepreneur in Residence (linked to the School of Engineering and Informatics).
In this role, Phil advises students and early career researchers on how to turn their research into commercially viable propositions and navigate the maze of funding and routes to market.
Find out more about Moogsoft .
Experts from our Sussex Innovation Centre help companies innovate and grow.
The centre, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the University of Sussex, operates from a base on our campus.
Our consultants help to facilitate access to our academic expertise – as well as from premises in Croydon and central Brighton.
You can benefit from the innovation centre’s expertise in strategy development, including business model reviews, new market assessments and investor relations.
You will also receive practical support in business areas including:
Find out how we can offer support through the Sussex Innovation Centre .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business/public-funds:
If your business is looking to develop a new idea, we can help you address your innovation challenges by connecting you to world-class expertise, technology and facilities.
If you are a small or medium-sized business looking for solutions to develop your next product or service, we can help.
Whether you’re just getting started or already have an idea that you’d like to develop, register your interest by emailing us at: collaborate@sussex.ac.uk and we’ll be in touch.
Once we agree a way forward, we may be able to draw down funding to support any resulting collaborations.
Whether you need to test a new product concept, a new service model, get support for new product development or understand more about using new technologies, we can help.
We will work with you to identify a plan to access the funding, facilities and expertise you’ll need to address your challenge.
We are already delivering for businesses on Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and Innovate UK projects and can help you with:
We've helped businesses realise their potential through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and Innovate UK projects.
We've also helped to secure seed funding through Impact Accerlator Funds, which enables our researchers to work on collaborations with a range of business partners.
Find out more below.
[On-screen name caption: Kate Thorpe, Business Partnerships Team, University of Sussex]
Kate Thorpe: I’m Kate Thorpe from the Innovation and Business Partnerships team at the University of Sussex, and we’re really proud to be working with Sprint Electric Limited on this Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships are a really great way to work together.
For businesses, you’ll benefit from accessing innovation and expertise across the University.
From the KTP Associate’s point of view they’re benefiting from a really great career opportunity.
And for academics involved in these projects, it gives a long-term opportunity to work with a business that can spin off so many benefits.
[On-screen name caption: Dr Mark Gardiner, Director, Sprint Electric]
Dr Mark Gardiner: We chose a KTP as the mechanism for embedding new knowledge in the business because we recognise that Industry 4.0 is going to be vital to the company going forward, but it was an area of which we had very little knowledge.
We could recruit in that capability or use a consultancy, but we quickly realised when we tried to do that, that we didn’t have the necessary knowledge in-house in order to do it effectively.
[On-screen name caption: George Parisis, School of Engineering and Informatics, University of Sussex]
George Parisis: For this particular KTP, I have been very lucky to be able to develop the project from scratch through a proof-of-concept project that we did last year with Sprint Electric, and I was very lucky to see my own student developing themselves to become the Knowledge Transfer Partnership Associate for this project.
[On-screen name caption: Nick Toomey, KTP Associate]
Nick Toomey: I’m developing an Industry 4.0 ready software suite to control industrial motor controllers so you’ll be able to remotely change their settings and also view information from them live.
My day-to-day role involves a lot of programming, so there’s a lot of...
problem solving, a lot of creative thinking, a lot of developing code.
And since a big part of the KTP is to produce a competent project manager, I can also use the training budget to help me with my soft skills.
George: I do acquire knowledge myself through the project and through working with businesses that I can then take back and inform my own research, but at the same time take back in the classroom and disseminate this to my students.
Kate: wIf you’re ready to start the conversation with us about how your business might benefit from accessing innovation at Sussex, get in touch with the Innovation and Business Partnerships team.
One of UK Research and Innovation council's, Innovate UK, operates Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) to bring academic knowledge to businesses, increasing their competitiveness and productivity and help them innovate for growth.
The schemes allow businesses to have a part-funded innovator in residence to help develop a service or product.
Each KTP project is a three-way partnership between a business, an academic or team of academics, and a graduate.
Any UK-based business of any size is eligible.
Across the country around 800 businesses, 100 knowledge bases and over 800 graduates (called KTP Associates) are involved in KTPs in unique and collaborative partnerships, creating positive impact and driving innovation.
At Sussex, we have a growing reputation to develop KTPs.
You can contact us to find out more about how we can work with you.
From law to management studies, psychology to media studies and English to digital humanities – our social sciences, arts and humanities researchers have the knowledge and skills that can bring about social and economic benefit for businesses.
The ESRC and AHRC Impact Acceleration Accounts provide a quick turnaround for seed funding, which enables our researchers to work on collaborations with a range of business partners.
We support partnerships with micro-businesses through to large companies.
We offer our researchers support to work on early stage projects, so they can:
Innovate UK supports business-led innovation in all sectors, technologies and UK regions.
It helps businesses grow through the development and commercialisation of new products, processes, and services, supported by an innovation ecosystem that is agile, inclusive and easy to navigate.
At Sussex, we work with business to support their Innovate UK applications by:
These interventions support the development of new approaches, across a range of technologies, in all sectors and industries.
We collaborated with Tellmi to obtain funding from Innovate UK.
Tellmi operates a safe, anonymous app for young people experiencing mental health difficulties.
Tellmi’s moderators check content and their in-house counsellors are on hand to offer support.
Innovate UK has given a grant to fund Tellmi’s collaboration with Sussex’s Department of Informatics and Bristol University’s Medical School to improve the functionality of the Tellmi app.
Academics from Sussex are leading parts of the research on the application of advanced natural-language-processing (NLP) and machine-learning (ML) techniques.
Find out more about Tellmi .
UKRI works through nine councils to champion the creativity and vibrancy of disciplines, sector-specific priorities and communities.
The councils shape and deliver both sectoral and domain-specific support.
Each council funds research and the exchange of knowledge from universities to companies, charities and other not-for-profit organisations and the public sector.
If your business is seeking funding for proof of concept or seed funding, you can contact us for up-to-date information on the public funds available to business.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business/investment-licence:
Find out how we can help you take your business to the next stage, compete in new markets or make a step change in the efficiency of your manufacturing processes.
One of the ways that businesses can benefit from our academic expertise is to license our technologies.
Our Business Engagement team welcomes enquiries from companies interested in taking a licence on technology developed at Sussex.
We have the expertise, legal know-how and administrative support needed to broker licensing agreements.
This means your company can access and exploit unique technologies knowing that exclusivity and market advantage is preserved.
Review our portfolio of technologies on our hosted platform .
We can help partner your business with our academics to develop collaborative research and to adopt new technologies, translating them into commercial opportunities.
A range of technologies developed using our research are in the early stages of commercialisation .
You can see recent examples of our spin-out businesses below.
If you want to invest in any of the businesses currently in development, you can contact us at: collaborate@sussex.ac.uk .
Universal Quantum is building quantum computers to tackle real-world problems that would take today’s fastest supercomputers billions of years to solve.
It has attracted international financing and established labs and staff based in Sussex.
Universal Quantum created the blue print for a quantum computer and are developing UQ Connect, a superior quantum matter link technology as well as the innovative engineering solutions to build a million-qubit quantum computer
Find out more Universal Quantum .
Metasonixx is a spin-out company, which is building on platform technology to shape sound in new and innovative ways.
The technology can deliver sounds to specific areas or individuals – potentially to one person in a crowd of thousands – and cancels out unwanted sounds.
Find out more about Metasonixx .
OW is creating new multisensory experiences that integrate smell.
OW's work crosses the arts, the consumer industries, healthcare and research.
Its digital smell technology is realised across both software and hardware – creating a twin-system that provides full control over the power of smell.
Currently OW are focusing in three areas – health and wellbeing, immersive experiences and innovative research.
Find out more about OW .
Stingray Bio is developing applications of a protein called LMTK3 to fight aggressive breast cancer.
In laboratory studies, LMTK3 inhibition causes breast cancer cells to stop growing and die, and diseased tissue shrinks following LMTK3 drug treatment.
Stingray has attracted venture capital seed funding and plans to expand its research and development to collaborate with experts and business partners across the globe.
Find out more about their work .
Alternox Scientific are aiming to adapt naturally occurring chemical fungicides to attack multi-drug and multi-compound resistant species of fungi that now threaten human health and food security worldwide.
Find out more about Alternox Scientific .
In addition a number of longer established spin out companies are trading successfully:
Advanced Material Development (AMD) is a leader in the field of cutting-edge Materials Science.
It specialises in funding research into 2D nanotechnologies and materials in collaboration with university partners to develop and commercialise unique solutions for industrial applications.
InCrowd’s digital experience platform (DXP), combines data capture & reporting with content publishing, digital asset management systems, audience segmentation tools, messaging and fan activations across app, web and screen.
Enterprise Therapeutics is a drug discovery company dedicated to the research and development of novel therapies for the treatment of respiratory diseases.
In the exciting new field of Radiomics, TexRAD uncovers biomarkers in medical images that are typically invisible to the naked eye.
Interanalysis Ltd are international trade policy specialists offering software and training solutions to international trade policy officials and negotiators.
iLexIR has developed text processing tools in collaboration with the Universities of Cambridge and Sussex and other industry partners.
iLexIR has sole commercial rights to an extensive toolkit for English text processing applications.
Give a helping hand to students that need it most, help establish a philanthropic scholarship for promising students, or fund our research projects.
You can:
You can also donate through our website to support our research as we seek to make a difference to people’s lives.
Find out more about donating to our research .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business/business-incubation:
Find out how we can help you accelerate and expand your business.
Our Sussex Innovation Centre is an incubator that helps new and existing businesses to grow.
The Sussex Innovation Centre is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the University of Sussex.
The team can advise on strategy, business advice and services.
It also has skilled graduates who can help deliver practical work.
It provides a flexible office and co-working space based on the University campus, with a whole community of technology and knowledge-based enterprises, and a wide network of investors, lawyers, partners and experts who can help new ideas flourish and grow.
Contact the Sussex Innovation Centre if you are looking for:
Email us at: collaborate@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business/apprenticeships:
Degree apprenticeships give you – as an employee or an employer – the skills, knowledge and support to thrive in a modern work environment.
As a distinguished institution in the South East, our world-class research and industry collaborations define our teaching, providing you and your apprentices with a competitive edge.
We partner with local employers, customising apprenticeship programmes to meet the skills gaps in your business.
Contact us
Choose from undergraduate (Level 6) and Masters (Level 7) degree apprenticeships .
We're working on new level 6 apprenticeships in Project Management, Electrical Engineering and more areas launching in 2026.
Complete the form at the bottom of the page so we can send you updates on our upcoming apprenticeships.
By partnering with us, your people will benefit from the latest industry-focused training.
University of Sussex apprentices receive:
We have proven expertise in working with businesses locally and nationally and have strong links within the local infrastructure.
The University of Sussex contributes £495 million each year to the UK economy and supports more than 7,800 jobs.
( Our economic impact : Rankings and figures : About us : University of Sussex, 2023 ) .
Business apprenticeships are funded from the employer’s Apprenticeship Levy, which is applicable to organisations with a pay bill of more than £3 million annually.
The Government will also provide an annual allowance of £15,000, so that employers can draw down the full amount of their levy funds to spend on business apprenticeship training.
For companies with a pay bill of less than £3 million, employers pay 5% and the Government pays 95% to the business apprenticeships provider.
For companies with a pay bill of less than £3 million and more than 50 employees, the Government funds 100% of the apprenticeships.
For companies with fewer than 50 employees, there is the chance to apply for a local levy transfer programme.
You can use the Best Apprenticeships Apprenticeship Levy Calculator to work out if your organisation will pay into the levy, estimate how much you’ll have to spend on business apprenticeship training, and calculate the Government’s contribution towards the cost of training.
We will advise you about all aspects of a degree apprenticeship.
We will work with you to understand your business and skills priorities and advise you on how our apprenticeships can best help your organisation.
We can support you in setting up your Apprenticeship Service Levy account and create a record for each of your business apprentices.
You can also ask us to do this for you.
We will also work with you to create all mandatory documentation (Apprenticeship Agreement and Training Plan) and through our Contract for Services we will ensure that you meet your own evidence requirements during the life of the business apprenticeship.
We will also hold a termly Tripartite Review with your apprentice and their line manager or mentor to review progress and readiness for the End Point Assessment.
We will record and track any actions agreed.
Submit this form to make an enquiry about our degree apprenticeships.
We will reply by email to book a consultation or discuss next steps with you.
We won't be able to provide you with information about other events.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/business/team:
Contact us so we can discuss how we can work together.
Business Partnerships Manager (Engineering & Informatics and Mathematical & Physical Sciences)
Nile supports impactful and innovative collaborations with organisations working with academics across the School of Engineering and Informatics and School of Mathematics and Physical Sciences.
Nile can connect you with a range of engagement opportunities including contract research, consultancy services, Innovate UK funding including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and IP licencing.
Email: N.J.Amos@sussex.ac.uk .
Business Partnerships Manager (BSMS & Life Sciences)
Nick supports impactful and innovative collaborations with business working with academics across the School of Life Sciences and the Brighton and Sussex Medical School.
Nick can connect you with a range of engagement opportunities including contract research, consultancy services, Innovate UK funding including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and IP licencing.
Email: N.Bull@sussex.ac.uk .
Knowledge Exchange Programme Manager
Samyra coordinates and facilitates the exchange of research, innovation, and expertise between academic and external partners to drive societal and economic impact.
Email: sc909@sussex.ac.uk .
Senior Knowledge Exchange Officer (Engineering & Informatics and Mathematical & Physical Sciences)
Alexandra supports impactful and innovative collaborations between industry and academia.
She works with experts across the Schools of Mathematics, Astronomy & Physics, and Engineering, Informatics & Design.
Alexandra can connect you to a range of engagement opportunities, including contract research, consultancy services, Innovate UK funding (such as Knowledge Transfer Partnerships), and IP licensing.
Email: M.Diaz-Trelles@sussex.ac.uk .
Consultancy Services Manager
Jo manages the University's consultancy services portfolio and provides support to academics across all disciplines wishing to offer consultancy to businesses and other external organisations.
Email: consultancy@sussex.ac.uk .
Senior Knowledge Exchange Officer (Life Sciences)
Graciela supports impactful and innovative collaborations with business working with academics across the School of Life Sciences.
She can connect you with a range of engagement opportunities, including contract research, consultancy services, Innovate UK funding (including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships), and IP licensing.
Part of her role is also supporting Public Engagement initiatives in the School of Life Sciences.
Email: G.Madrid-Munoz@sussex.ac.uk .
Intellectual Property Business Partner Keith O’Brien manages and develops the University's innovation and intellectual property portfolio and supports the creation of opportunities leading to use and exploitation of research by external organisations, such as by licensing and spin-out company formation.
Contact Keith if you have an intellectual property, technology transfer or licensing enquiry.
Telephone: +44 (0)1273 873579 Email: K.E.O-Brien@sussex.ac.uk Follow Keith O'Brien on LinkedIn .
IP and Commercialisation Manager
Abigail Oyewo offers IP support to academics applying for research grants, assists with various IP inquiries from both academics and students across all schools in the University and provides IP support for the commercial exploitation of University-owned intellectual property.
Email: A.Oyewo@sussex.ac.uk .
Intellectual Property Coordinator Anna Saunders administers patent applications to protect the University’s intellectual property and non-disclosure agreements (NDA) to open up opportunities for partnerships in research and commercialisation.
Contact Anna if you have an intellectual property or NDA enquiry.
Telephone: +44 (0)1273 873862 Email: A.C.Saunders@sussex.ac.uk .
Head of Business Partnerships
Kate leads the Business Partnerships team connecting partners with academics across the University to deliver impactful and innovative solutions to real world challenges.
Contact Kate to discuss partnering opportunities including collaboration for contract research, consultancy services, Innovate UK funding including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and IP licencing
Telephone: +44 (0)1273 873664 Email: k.thorpe@sussex.ac.uk Follow Kate Thorpe on LinkedIn .
Business Partnerships Manager (Social Science and Humanities)
Anne-Fay supports impactful and innovative collaborations with organisations working with academics across the School of Media Arts & Humanities, School of Education and Social Work, School of Law Politics and Sociology and School of Global Studies.
Anne-Fay can connect you with a range of engagement opportunities including contract research, consultancy services, Innovate UK funding including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and IP licencing.
Email: A.Townsend@sussex.ac.uk .
Senior Knowledge Exchange Initiatives Manager
Tom provides programme and project support to the team managing the University’s innovation portfolio and generates new commercial leads, supports academics to engage with businesses and the public sector.
Tom also provides support to the RISE programme.
Telephone: +44 (0)1273 873252 Email: T.Wolfenden@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/public-third-sector:
Our research, consultancy, technology, know-how, spin-outs and training are improving practice and performance in the public and third sectors – helping people and their organisations achieve their goals.
We welcome all enquiries about research in all fields, as well as having particular areas of strength.
We work with governments across the world, providing practical solutions to global challenges.
We collaborate to provide insights into future development and are partnered with government to inform and build trade policy.
We work closely with the local unitary authority across multiple policy and delivery areas.
We also work with health partners, NHS services, innovators and people to solve some of the biggest challenges facing the health and wellbeing of us all.
Whether this is discovering future technologies and diagnostics, building the resilience of the workforce to meet future demand, or designing services to meet the needs of future populations – the University is playing a role in bringing new knowledge to transform policy and practice.
It's our strategic goal to be one of the most sustainable universities in the world.
We aim to show global leadership in demonstrating and promoting all forms of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
We want to achieve this through our own performance and through our research.
That's why we are seeking new research partnerships at all levels – internationally, nationally and locally.
Collaborating to bring about change from University of Sussex on Vimeo .
[Name caption: Pollyanna Ruiz – Professor of Media and Cultural Studies] Pollyanna: My research addresses a number of problems.
So the big overarching problem is how do groups that perceive themselves to be a minority, who perceive themselves to not have power, or to be excluded from public debate in different ways, what strategies and tactics do they use to make themselves heard in the public space, in the public arena?
There isn't a single way in which protesters can best communicate, that will depend on the context they're in, who they are, who they're talking to, what resources they have available to them, but I hope that my research enables protesters and actually people who want to hear protesters or people who want to hear dissenting voices, think about how they can best bridge that communicative gap.
I hope that it enables ideas to move from that kind of edge of society, the margins, the fringe and into the mainstream where they can be debated and decisions can be made.
An example of a group that I've worked with recently would be the Long Live.
South Bank campaign in London.
So they're a group of skaters who wanted to continue using a piece of land underneath the South Bank Centre and I worked very closely with them over a number of years and from that project we were always  going to produce an academic article, which is what I do, that's my job, but we also wanted to produce something which would be useful beyond the world of academia and so we made a 20-minute film really, really in close collaboration with the skaters and this film was incredibly useful  to them.
So they would send the film to councils or to directors of institutions, to anybody they wanted to communicate with and the film made a quite a complex argument but it made it in a very accessible way.
We've had feedback from people we worked with, who talked about how working with us lifted the ideas out of the dynamics that were on the ground that they were very embedded in and felt very passionately about and it enabled them to see things slightly more clearly, slightly at a distance and in a way that was helpful to them.
So I think that kind of lifting out of ideas is  really, really helpful and I think that having an academic group give them research which they can then go away and use in different contexts that has been produced by an academic group, according to particular kind of research standards, research methodologies, is a very valuable thing for them.
[END CARD.UK Research and Innovation logo.
University of Sussex logo].

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/public-third-sector/expertise-consulting-commission-public-sector:
Find out how we can help you grow your public or third sector organisation by connecting you with our cutting edge expertise.
From businesses to charities and local authorities to government departments, we have a strong track record of working with a range of partners.
Our experts can help you:
A recent collaboration has addressed digital inclusion in health and care.
[Mike, Workshop Attendee holds phone.
He looks at the NHS app on his mobile phone.]
Mike: There we go.
We've got help.
[On screen name caption: Kath Sykes – NHS Sussex]
Kath Sykes: There’s massive digital transformation in the NHS, and it really will support people to self-manage their health in a way that we would just not be able to do face to face.
As an example, you know, people can have access to apps that provide them with information that could prevent them from needing to see a GP, help them manage long term conditions, as well as access health and care services.
[Mike, workshop attendee, uses NHS app to order a prescription on his mobile phone]
Mike: All done in just a few minutes sitting in the living room.
[On screen caption: Mike, workshop attendee]
Mike: If the NHS is going to roll this technology out, it does need to think about how it makes it robust for users who are not tech savvy.
I haven't grown up with this technology, I use it, but I wouldn't have been able to download that the app without my daughter's help.
Kath Sykes: So we know that 40% of adults over 75 are digitally excluded.
We know that one in 20 households in the UK don't have internet access, or will struggle to afford internet access.
So the digital inclusion framework is important because it enables us really to think about the impact on that person, whether they're being excluded, whether we're introducing health inequalities, and make them much more inclusive for people.
[On screen caption: Maja Golf-Papez – Univeristy of Sussex]
Maja Golf-Papez: So this is the framework that can be used as a thinking tool that helps us to better understand what are some potential barriers to people being included in the healthcare technologists services.
And we can use this framework to first ensure that we design digital health and care pathways in an inclusive way and also assess current pathways, whether they are inclusive or not.
[Doctor on video call]
Doctor: Hi, there.
Hi, Rachel.
Hi, Richard, how you doing?
Good.
How are you?
[On screen caption: Debbie Keeling – University of Sussex]
Debbie Keeling: In terms of what we wanted to achieve, there were two stages, the very first stage was that we realised that we potentially had the experience and the expertise in a multi-partner collaboration to raise awareness about digital engagement.
And so we then started to explore with patients and their carers, how they engage with health services.
That all pointed to the fact that there was a journey that could be mapped out, that there were very common themes, as opposed to breaking it down into different healthcare pathways or different conditions.
Looking at it from a lived experience point of view, we were very motivated by that, because quite often the starting point is the technology without considering the person.
[On screen caption: Jessica Van Thiel – University of Sussex]
Jessica van Thiel: I think what we've tried to achieve here is not just saying, if you're of a certain age or a certain gender, this is going to be your problem.
It’s very complex and it's all very interrelated, and that's where I think the Digital Inclusion Framework is very different is because we've tried to listen to as many people as possible, and consider the overlapping variables as well.
And eliminating, I think, those quite siloed approaches, we're trying to look at it in a very holistic way.
And there's always going to be a certain population that really just aren't motivated to onboard new technology, but we're talking about quality of life, which will impact their health going forward.
So getting it right is essential.
If we don't get digital health care right it's such a missed opportunity, and so I think the implications here are massive.
[On screen caption: Lilian – Workshop Attendee]
Lilian: My husband has a disability, which is a benign quiver, so he shakes a lot and he doesn't use the internet much, and he doesn't have a smartphone.
So I tend to do the banking, and he does tend to not have too much problems pressing buttons on his remote control for the TV.
I keep telling him if anything happens to me, what would you do?
And I think it might be as we're getting a bit older that he's beginning to worry about.
Maja Golf- Papez: Technology can be a solution but technology is often also the problem, and what we don't want is that technology adds to the problems and creates new problems.
And anybody is at risk to be excluded from digital health and care because they're not aware of the digital healthcare solutions or technologies or pathways.
Others might be excluded in the process when they are using things and they just don't get enough support for the use, and still others might be excluded just because when they're using it, then they lose the motivation to keep using it.
So these things, they cannot be a replacement of human support.
So even when people submit their readings via app for the blood pressure, they will be eagerly waiting to hear back from the GP to tell them what is the next action.
So this might become overwhelming for somebody and they just say I can't be bothered, so I'm not using this solution.
We would like to have better technology that solves the problems and not just create new ones.
So our framework won't be just like an academic tool that it's nice to look at, but it's something that can really make a difference out there in the real world.
[End card.
NHS Sussex University of Sussex, Kent Surrey Sussex Academic Health Science Network logos.]
The University of Sussex in collaboration with NHS Sussex and the Kent, Surrey and Sussex Academic Health and Science Network has developed a digital inclusion framework for health and care.
This person-centred guide supports the design of digital services, taking into account lived-experiences and people’s needs.
It considers the barriers and enablers that people face in their daily lives that affect their ability to engage with digital health and care services.
This is important because research into digital exclusion shows that there are correlations between the populations more likely to be digitally excluded and those more at risk of health inequalities.
The overall aim of the framework is to enable everyone that can benefit from digital health and care to do so, when they need to, and to ensure that inaccessible pathways and technologies are not creating barriers and causing disengagement in digital health and care.
The work is continuing and the team are developing tools and resources to help NHS partners use the framework, working with innovators to embed the principals of the framework in the process of designing digital services and building up awareness with the public.
Find our more by contacting: University of Sussex: esrc-iaa@sussex.ac.uk or NHS Sussex: sxicb.comms@nhs.net .
Read more about the digital inclusion collaboration and its accompanying framework.
Dr Maja Golf-Papez, University of Sussex Katherine Sykes, KSS AHSN Professor Debbie Keeling, University of Sussex Jessica Hadjis van Thiel, University of Sussex Dr.
Ralitsa Hiteva, University of Sussex Nora Davies, University of Sussex
Virtual health and care team Population health and prevention team Digital teams Ageing well team Musculoskeletal team ACF PCN Sussex Partnership Foundation Trust Engagement teams Public reference group members Local authority digital inclusion teams Healthwatch.
Kent Surrey Sussex Academic Health Science Network Participants of co-creation workshop Library services across Sussex Various NHS, VSCE, health and care, accessibility, and digital inclusion programmes and agencies Participants in the video.
The diagram below suggests that the likelihood and the nature of exclusion will differ in accordance with the individual's journey with digital health and care.
Download the digital inclusion in health and care framework table as a PDF [3.31MB] .
You can see an accessible version of the PDF and the table above, below.
The Digital Inclusion Framework for Health and Care
Patient’s journey for digital health services/technologies
H.
I can access and interact with digital health and care safely and effectively.
I .
I have access to reliable, trusted, support whenever I need it.
Accessibility and Usability
L.
The service/pathway and technology was accessible, usable, and easy for me to interact with.
E.
Can/do I trust the service/pathway /technology?
F.
Can/do I trust what will happen to my data and how it will be used?
© 2022, The University of Sussex and NHS Sussex.
All rights reserved.
All intellectual property rights in The Digital Inclusion Framework for Health and Care are owned by The University of Sussex and NHS Sussex.
The diagram below shows the interconnected enablers that we need to consider when designing and evaluating digitally inclusive health and care pathways, services and technologies.
Download the digital inclusion in health and care framework diagram as a PDF [260KB] .
The Connected Lewes project is a partnership between the University of Sussex, Lewes volunteer groups that work in partnership with Lewes Town Council, the NHS GP practice – The Foundry, and local charities.
The research team involved Jessica van Thiel, George Han (both postgraduate students at SPRU) and was led by Dr Ralitsa Hiteva, a Senior Research Fellow at SPRU.
The aim of the project was to identify the social and communication needs of older people in Lewes during the Covid-19 lockdown, to inform appropriate solutions and actions at the local level (The office of the Mayor of Lewes, East Sussex County Council and local formal and informal stakeholders).
Dr Ralitsa Hiteva: The aims and objectives of the Connecting Lewes project was to do a survey with as many of the residents in Lewes over the age of 55 as possible.
And we wanted to find out specifically how they using digital technologies in order to stay in touch during one of the longer lockdowns in 2021, to help them develop their digital inclusion work in Lewes.
[Pictures are displayed showing shots of Lewes including the High Street, and Lewes Castle]
Eric Kihlstrom (UK Ambassador Ageing 2.0 and resident of Lewes): I had a neighbour who is a GP has lots of patients who are frail, elderly and when lockdown happened, they were quite worried about how those patients were going to receive care during lockdown and isolation.
[Picture shows a man and a woman using a computer, another picture of a woman using a mobiile phone and another picture of a person sitting in a dining room using a desktop computer]
Eric Kihlstrom: Their digital skills, their access to digital technology was a real question, and so I connected with the mayor of Lewes, also Sussex University who were extremely helpful in putting together a project that had academic rigour, but also delivered results for the community.
[Picture shows a man using a tablet and a woman using a laptop computer sitting next to each other on the sofa in front of a wood burning stove]
Dr Ralitsa Hiteva: We all realised that the advance of digital technologies that was forced during the pandemic was not something that was going to be rolled back, and this is also the point at which we started seeing that it's not enough to give people smart tablets, and smartphones and expect them to be able to have the same level of access to services as before.
[Displays pictures of people accessing services to help them with digital technology and getting help from volunteers]
Dr Ralitsa Hiteva: One of the things we didn't set out to study and to learn is the big role that voluntary organisations and local level organisations can actually play to support any kind of either national level or local level programs, they were essential in how we reached out to people, how we actually managed to collect the data.
And they were also the people that managed to bring in a lot of the stakeholders to the table.
[Picture shows a copy of Lewes News with the two page spread about the project]
George Han (Researcher in Sustainable Development at Sussex): With a piece of research on digital exclusion in the elderly, we wanted to choose a method that they'd be able to respond.
So we had a two page spread in Lewes News then did a slightly smaller follow up with the same questions online.
And I think one of the interviews really highlighted the fact of closing down public facilities such as libraries during COVID make it much harder for people to access these technologies that they need for benefits claims and things like that.
Jessica Hadjis Van Thiel (PhD Researcher at Sussex): The specific findings were related to age, health and gender.
When we talk about gender, I think the difference was really in terms of perception.
And in terms of confidence men felt or the perception was that they felt pretty confident in using the technology.
[Picture shows two men looking at a laptop computer.
Another picture shows a woman using a mobile phone]
Jessica Hadjis Van Thiel: And women generally, were under confident or were less confident but then when when we actually broke it down into questions afterwards, we found that actually women were the ones that were doing most of the communicating that were using most of the devices or that were using it for longer periods of time, or that were doing, you know, most of the household technological chores, if you will.
So that was quite interesting.
[Picture shows woman sat on a sofa using a laptop]
Dr Ralitsa Hiteva: It means that if you get working with this, you know, supporting this group, right, it's likely it's going to have a very positive effect on everyone in the household.
We found out a lot of things that we were very genuinely surprised to find out.
[Picture shows a man in a warehouse wearing high vis clothing and using a desktop computer.
Followed by another picture of a woman smiling as she stands in her kitchen.
Followed by another picture of an elderly man using a laptop]
Dr Ralitsa Hiteva: So apart from the importance of radio sets and the importance of smartphones, we also see that obviously as people grow older, and we're dealing with older age groups, the extent to which their health actually deteriorates, plays a very big role on the extent to which they will be able to use the digital technologies in a particular way.
[Picture shows a man sitting in a cafe at a table using a mobile phone.
Followed by another picture of two men sat at a table with mugs of tea using a laptop together]
Eric Kihlstrom: There are five million people in the UK who have never used the internet.
Two thirds of them are over 65.
Some of it is skills, a lot of it is motivation, some of it is affordability.
One thing that I think for me is really important is the leveraging of the social infrastructure that we've got, the trusted social networks.
For as much as we talk about technology, it's about people and people should be at the centre of all of our work, and we can address digital inclusion as result of community and community building.
With thanks to Lewes Town Council, The Foundry NHS GP Practice, Lewes Community Volunteers, Lewes News, University of Sussex and local charities.
Lewes footage courtesy of www.youtube.com/@Living walks.
Photos courtesy of Centre for Aging Better.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/public-third-sector/access-to-public-funds-public-and-third-sector:
Find out how we can work with you to develop joint bid proposals for public funds.
If you're seeking funding for proof of concept or seed funding, you can contact us for information on the funds available for public and third sector organisations.
We can work with you on joint bid proposals for the below public funding opportunities.
Not-for-profit organisations such as social enterprises and charities are eligible for Knowledge Transfer Partnership grants.
The schemes allow organisations to have a part-funded innovator in residence to help develop a service or product.
Each KTP project is a three-way partnership between an organisation, an academic or team of academics, and a graduate.
Even if you are from a public sector organisation, so not eligible for a KTP, you can benefit from other funding schemes as outlined below.
From law to management studies, psychology to media studies and English to digital humanities – our social sciences, arts and humanities researchers, have the knowledge and skills to help bring about social and economic benefit for organisations.
The AHRC Impact Acceleration Account provides quick turnaround seed funding that enables our researchers to work on collaborations with public and third sector partners of all kinds.
We support partnerships with organisations such as:
We offer our researchers support to work on early-stage projects to:
Email us: collaborate@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/about/policy-at-sussex:
Policy@Sussex acts a bridge between the University’s research and the policymakers, influencers and shapers who may require robust evidence to inform decision making.
We aim to put Sussex research at the centre of policy debates, providing innovative insights on current challenges and helping to solve the grand issues of our time.
Policy@Sussex is coordinated by a team of Professional Services staff drawn from across the University’s Schools and central divisions.
See our full archive of policy briefings .
Collaboration for evidence-based policy making from University of Sussex on Vimeo .
[Name caption: Josh Siepel – Senior Lecturer in Management – Science Policy Research Unit]
Josh: My name is Josh Siepel.
I'm a senior lecturer in the Science Policy Research Unit at the University of Sussex Business School.
One of the things that is involved in being an academic is being able to think through and try to come up with answers to complex problems.
In many cases for policy makers or for companies, the problems they face are complex problems and so we as academics bring the ability to think about, to address complex research questions, which may also, for instance, be complex policy questions, complex business questions and we may be able to take something that, to someone on the ground, might look like something completely impenetrable and very difficult to get a hold of and to be able to say here's a couple of ways that we can think about it, one, two, three, here's the data we need, here's how we can figure out to get you the answer that you want.
Our research looks at the creative industries and so this includes sectors like film, music, TV, architecture, performing arts, things like this.
It's a really interesting sector that has a very major role in the economy but it's not terribly well understood and we don't have a huge amount of evidence about how these sectors work and how the government can support them and so a lot of the work that we do at the moment is based on helping governments and policy makers to understand what is going on in the creative industries and to support them to develop policy instruments that can best support these types of businesses and these types of workers.
I think there are a number of ways that our research benefits stakeholders, one of the ways as an academic that I'm the most proud of is that our work in the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre has been seeking to build a strong, robust, data-driven evidence base for creative industries and this means that policy makers now have tools and data and evidence that they can go on rather than having to rely on hunches or suspicions or anecdotes and by virtue of bringing a more data-driven approach, which is based fundamentally upon our work as academics, that is a really valuable part of the work that we're delivering to our stakeholder partners.
Follow us on Twitter: @Policy_Sussex
Email policyteam@sussex.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/talent-recruitment:
We're helping to build the next generation of entrepreneurs and skilled graduates to help businesses grow.
Find out how you can recruit our students or build expertise within your organisation through continuing professional development courses.
Recruit new talent or build your expertise by taking on a placement student with new knowledge.
See how we can help you update your knowledge through our Continuing Professional Development courses.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/conferences-facilities:
Find out about our conference spaces and facilities for hire.
We have more than 200 spaces for hire.
Our facilities are located in the tranquillity of the South Downs.
There are regular transport links to Brighton and Gatwick Airport, and London (Victoria) is just 90mins journey time by train.
If you're driving to campus, we are located on the outskirts of Brighton on the A27 and have plenty of car parking spaces.
We can offer:
We can offer residential summer conferences with overnight accommodation on campus for your delegates convenience.
Find out more about our conference spaces and facilities or contact our conference team .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/collaborate/events:
Get involved with the different events and professional networks hosted by our people, or throw your own event with our range of available facilities.
Attend one of our free teacher conferences where you can take part in activities and broaden your Higher Education knowledge.
Learn about our network that brings together colleagues from across the sector to engage the student voice.
Host an event on campus, with over 200 spaces for hire and a dedicated conference centre.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/news-events:
Find out the latest news from the University and see what events are coming up - from public lectures on campus to reunions across the world.
Alumni news stories
Open to alumni and friends
Photos from recent events

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/people:
Our alumni are pushing boundaries, exploring new ideas and standing up for what they believe in.
Read some of their stories and explore their work.
Search for notable Sussex alumni
Discover our inspiring alumni community

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
Are you ready to help enrich the student life at Sussex?
Our alumni generously give back to Sussex in numerous ways.
Find out about the different opportunities for volunteering your time, including becoming a mentor and sharing your experience.
The best way to get start on your volunteering journey is to sign up to your exclusive online mentoring and networking platform Sussex Connect.
Use it to expand your global network, find a mentor, become a mentor, and share your experience with current Sussex students.
Get started with Sussex Connect .
Learn about our Mentoring Programme and other opportunities to get involved, either as a mentor or a mentee.
Get involved by representing Sussex across the globe as an Alumni Consul and by supporting our student recruitment.
Discover how you can get involved through sharing your career journey and speaking at Sussex events.
Find out about organising an alumni reunion and reminisce about your time at Sussex.
See which surveys are relevant to you and how you can help shape the University’s future development and reputation.
The Volunteer Code of Conduct has been created to make sure your volunteer experience is meaningful, productive, safe and consistent with our values.
Read our Code of Conduct .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/community:
Join our online community to keep in touch and connect with Sussex alumni and find out about our range of discounts and benefits for former Sussex students.
Welcome to the Sussex Alumni Network and our worldwide community.
See our information for new graduates
As a former Sussex student, you are entitled to a range of benefits including: ongoing careers support, invitations to academic and social events, access to the Library and special rates for our Sports Centre and accommodation in the local area .
As an alum, you can benefit on discounts on postgraduate study.
The Sussex Alumni Scholarship offers a £3,000 fee waiver for previous Sussex students (regardless of how long ago you studied at Sussex) choosing to return to study a Masters degree.
The Chancellor's Masters Scholarships are available for First Class graduates from institutions in the UK or Ireland.
There are only 100 scholarships available, so there is a competitive application process.
Visit the Masters scholarships page to sign up for scholarship updates .
Alumni are also eligible for a 20% discount on our online Masters courses .
The Institute of Development Studies also offer a 20% discount to any Sussex alumni for the following short courses:
We also send out a monthly email newsletter with the latest research, events and alumni news as well as our annual publication, Falmer , which you can choose to receive in hard copy or electronic form.
Other benefits, such as access to JSTOR and Springer Nature, can be accessed through the Alumni Community pages .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/overseas:
Sussex is proud of its reputation as a global institution and we are delighted to have so many alumni based around the world, including over 250 alumni consuls who have volunteered to act as ambassadors for the University and as a contact point for students and fellow alumni.
If you are travelling or living overseas, get in touch with your local consul for information on events and how you can get in touch with other alumni in the area.
Click on the map to find consuls for your country.
If you are interested in volunteering to be an alumni consul you can found out more here

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/falmer-magazine:
Professor Sasha Roseneil, Vice-Chancellor, welcomes readers from the global Sussex community and shares some key highlights from the University year.
How Sussex’s trailblazing impact on art and education came to the fore in its role as Education Partner for Turner Prize 2023.
Since 2003, Brighton and Sussex Medical School has graduated more than 2,000 doctors to work in the NHS and beyond and produced transformative research.
Since its founding, Sussex has had a global outlook and strong commitment to the internationalisation of education.
Today, we’re taking forward our values-based global engagement strategy to create ‘A Better University for a Better World’.
Solving the mystery of consciousness could go beyond understanding our sense of ‘self’ to having broader implications across medicine, society and technology for us all.
Doctors have listened to the health of our bodily systems for millennia.
Now we are making digital stethoscopes to listen to the health of our ecosystems.
While the introduction of new legislation that allows children more control over the content they see online is promising, understanding how best to help children navigate wellbeing in a digital context has never been more important.
The Neolithic flint mines found in and around Sussex are among Britain’s most important prehistoric monuments.
Dr Alistair Grant reveals the history and personal journey behind Falmer House’s iconic knapped flint walls commissioned by Sir Basil Spence.
Professor Benjamin K.
Sovacool makes a case as to why decarbonising can become the next big climate success story.
To be programmed with intelligence is one thing.
To possess emotional intelligence is another.
Professor Julie Weeds draws a distinction between artificial intelligence and what it is to be human.
Veterinary social work is an emerging and growing field in other countries, but the UK is yet to catch up.
Rebecca Stephens explains her reasons as to why placing social workers within veterinary settings should be made an area of focus.
A student’s achievements are more than their academic successes, but how do we capture and celebrate accomplishments outside of the lecture theatre?
Turner Prize-winner Helen Cammock (Sociology BA Hons, 1989) reflects on her profound and complex relationship with words and her path to artistic self-discovery.
Books and podcasts authored by Sussex alumni and academics in the past year.
For nearly 50 years, Martin Griffiths (AFRAS 1968) has worked on the frontline of humanitarian aid and mediated with leaders of the most-feared armed groups, from the Basque separatist organisation ETA to the Afghan Taliban.
Now, as the United Nation’s Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, his experience and skill are stretched to the limit.
Bill Russo (Environment, Development and Policy 2009) has worked for the US government in foreign affairs, national security and diplomacy.
He played a key role in the successful Biden-Harris presidential campaign and now, as Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Global Public Affairs, he leads a team of 350 to promote American foreign policy.
Here, he reflects on his current role and the journey towards it.
In 2017, climate educator and activist Temilade Salami (Environment, Development and Policy 2021) founded EcoChampions, a Nigerian NGO focused on environmental education and leadership.
Artist, filmmaker and writer Topher Campbell (Intellectual History 1983) was matched with Creative Director Jordi M.
Carter (Drama and Film Studies 2018) as part of the Sussex Connect Global Mentoring Programme.
They share their perspectives on the value of mentoring and the positive impact their relationship has had.
Sussex alumni all over the world have been active in starting new projects, making an impact at local, national and international level, achieving career milestones and gaining recognition.
Read a snapshot of the latest alumni news
If you have a story to tell you can share your news, memories and photos with us.
Send us your story
Reunited, and it feels so good: Alumni share the joys of reconnecting on campus and around the world.
A selection of key University and research news stories from the past year.
All you need to know about the University’s annual magazine and how you can get involved.
Development and Alumni Relations Communications, Marketing & Advancement Division University of Sussex Falmer Brighton United Kingdom BN1 9RH
Telephone: +44 (0)1273 678258 E-mail: alumni@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/support:
Your donations – big or small – make a vital difference to the experience of our students, the resources available to our researchers and the impact we have on the world.
From the rocky streets of The Gambia to Sussex, our Article 26 Scholarship has changed Awa’s life.
See all fundraising stories
Give a helping hand to students at Sussex
Change someone’s life
Invest in our research
Leave your mark at Sussex
Remember Sussex in your will
Help out at Sussex
Find out about our alumni in the US
Support your university by making a gift
You can be confident that your gift will be used in the right way.
The University of Sussex is registered with the Fundraising Regulator .
The University of Sussex is an exempt charity – it has the same rights as any registered charity.
The Inland Revenue claim number is XN1306 and tax claims are treated in exactly the same way as those of a registered charity.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/subjects:
Explore our courses by subject area – across undergraduate, Masters and PhD.
Hear from our students about life at Sussex, discover exciting career paths and see our cutting-edge research.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/broadcast/read/68262:
Posted on behalf of: University of Sussex
Last updated: Monday, 16 June 2025
The University of Sussex has been awarded first place in two categories in this year’s Whatuni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs) .
Sussex claimed top spot in both the International and Student Life categories, in the South East region.
We were also ranked third in the region in the Career Prospects, Postgraduate, and Students' Union categories.
In the overall national rankings, Sussex has risen 33 places to 39 th in the UK.
Our biggest national improvement was in Career Prospects, where we climbed 58 places to 32 nd .
We also improved on last year’s performance in eight other categories, including in the International category, which saw us rise 42 places to 19 th in the UK.
The WUSCAs are the largest annual awards in the UK where the outcome is decided exclusively by students’ reviews across numerous categories.
Our Student Communications and Campaigns team has worked tirelessly with our student population for months to support and encourage them to submit reviews about their experience at Sussex.
The student reviews are then collated by the WUSCA organisers to calculate the winners of the annual awards.
Sussex was also runner-up nationally in the Mental Health and Wellbeing Support category of this year’s WUSCAs .
This is based on the quality and range of support and mental health interventions offered to Sussex students by our Wellbeing Services.
Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sasha Roseneil said: “I am very pleased to see how Sussex has fared in this year’s WUSCAs, with improvements on last year’s positions in many categories.
The results are recognition of the dedicated work that has been going on across the University to enhance the student experience, and world-readiness and employability, for all our students.
Well done to everyone involved in teaching and supporting our students, and a particular thank you to the Communications colleagues who have encouraged students to write reviews of their time at Sussex.”

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/university:
Items 1 to 20 of 174
26 June 2025
The new collaborative of 10 leading research-focused universities will provide a collective voice and boost UK research and innovation.
20 June 2025
At least nine members of the Sussex community were honoured by His Majesty King Charles III in his recent Birthday Honours.
19 June 2025
Sussex has been ranked in the top 5% globally and in the UK top 20 institutions for sustainability in the QS World University Rankings 2026.
28 March 2025
The Office for Students' so-called investigation into the University I represent was flawed and politically motivated.
27 March 2025
Our Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sasha Roseneil, shares a message following the Office for Students' report.
26 March 2025
The University has condemned findings by the OfS that leave universities unable to have policies to prevent abusive, bullying and harassing speech
27 February 2025
The University of Sussex has today (27 February) launched the UK’s first ever undergraduate level climate justice degree in the social sciences.
22 January 2025
Former Green MP Caroline Lucas receives honorary degree at the University’s winter graduation ceremony
13 December 2024
The winter solstice on 21 December symbolises rebirth and renewal.
But what else do we know about the effects of the shortest day of the year?
2 December 2024
New Level 6 degree apprenticeship, Data Analytics and Digital Solutions for Business, launches to help meet the needs of local employers.
27 November 2024
First two decades of Brighton and Sussex Medical School celebrated with a reception in Parliament.
18 November 2024
Sussex is ranked for 18 subjects this year: Business Administration is our highest ranked subject at 15th in the world...
24 October 2024
Brighton & Hove City Council to fund English for Refugees, allowing 15 students from forced migrant backgrounds to access English language classes
10 October 2024
Sussex has been awarded funding from the Office for Students to expand its apprenticeship offering, as it welcomes the first cohort of apprentices.
9 October 2024
The Times Higher Education has released its World University Rankings 2025
25 September 2024
University of Sussex Business School has achieved joint 50th place in Europe in the QS Global MBA Rankings 2025.
The Coast is Queer festival of LGBTQ+ writing is at the University of Sussex’s Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts from 10-13 October 2024.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/article/68547-not-so-curious-after-all-new-study-finds-cats-prefer-predictability:
By: Imogen Harris Last updated: Thursday, 10 July 2025
Researchers from Sussex investigated whether cats demonstrated so-called level 6 object permanence – the understanding that objects continue to exist even when they are moved out of sight in a way that is not directly observed.
This cognitive ability is seen in dogs, some apes, and human infants.
It was expected that, due to their hunting behaviours as well as reputation for curiosity, cats would also show this ability.
However, as with most studies into cat behaviour, researchers have learnt to expect the unexpected.
In an experiment inspired by sleight-of-hand, a toy was hidden and then revealed in either its original location or an unexpected one.
Surprisingly, the cats were more interested when the toy showed up where they expected it to be.
The study involved showing cats a toy, then visibly placing it in one of two boxes.
The boxes were then obscured, moved and either swapped or returned to their original place.
The toy was revealed in either the expected location (“expected event”) or an unexpected one (“violation event”), and researchers measured how long the cats looked at the toy.
The study found that cats were more likely to play with the toy if it reappeared in the original location.
They also looked for longer at the toy when expected events took place before violation events.
Jemma Forman, Doctoral Researcher at the University of Sussex said:
"Cats contrarily have a reputation for being highly curious animals yet are seemingly unmotivated in research studies.
Despite this, cats were able to discriminate between expected and unexpected events, but in the opposite direction of what our existing knowledge in infants and dogs would otherwise suggest.
These findings support the movement towards cat-friendly methods of research to better understand what our feline friends are thinking".
Co-author Jordan S.
Rowe commented:
“Cats can exhibit avoidant or hesitant behaviour around unfamiliar humans, which can affect their engagement in cognitive tasks.
Here, we found that cats were more likely to play with the toy, but less likely to interact with the boxes, when events were presented by a stranger rather than their owner.
These findings suggest that cats still show a general interest in cognitive tasks, but display complex behaviours in the presence of an unfamiliar person."
Surprisingly, nearly half the cats made no attempt to search for the toy when it was simply hidden in one of the boxes, raising questions about their motivation rather than their cognitive ability.
The study also revealed that factors like sex, breed, and household setup influenced behaviour.
Female, indoor-only, and mixed-breed cats were more likely to show interest in the toy, as were those from multi-cat homes.
Cats were also more cautious around unfamiliar researchers, despite showing curiosity towards the toy itself.
The full study can be read here.
This work supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 15 research on life on land and our education on, and support for, land ecosystems.
You can read more about our work on the SDGs here .
Back to all news

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/article/68174-sussex-scientists-find-off-switch-that-could-turbo-charge-cancer-immunotherapy-and-prolong-lives:
By: Tom Latchem Last updated: Friday, 23 May 2025
New study by University of Sussex and Zhejiang Chinese Medical University shows blocking protein LMTK3 can prevent breast cancer tumours turning immune cells into 'friends’
First-generation LMTK3 drug (C28) restores the body’s natural immune response
Discovery paves way for tailored treatments and a quick test to identify suitable patients , and could be used to fight other cancers – ultimately prolonging lives
A new study published today (Friday 23 May 2025) by the University of Sussex and Zhejiang Chinese Medical University reveals that blocking a protein known as LMTK3 can prevent breast cancer tumours from turning immune cells into 'friends’.
In cancer, immune cells can be either 'friends’ or ‘foes ’ , depending on the specific cell type and the tumour microenvironment (TME).
Now , scientists have discovered that high levels of LMTK3 in breast cancer cells can trick the body’s defences – and that switching it off with drugs could turbo -charge immunotherapy by fighting tumour cells, thereby delaying or preventing spread and ultimately prolonging lives.
LMTK3 is also present in other parts of the body – including the lungs, thyroid, stomach, colon, ovaries and skin – meaning the findings could have positive implications on a range of cancers.
Lead researcher Professor Georgios Giamas from Sussex’s School of Life Sciences said : “This research is another step towards unravelling the contribution of LMTK3 in cancer progression and the first one to link LMTK3 with an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment.
“Our findings suggest that by targeting LMTK3 , we can control tumour growth both directly by attacking the cancer cells and indirectly by modulating the signals that promote immune cell infiltration and their anti-cancer function.”
The study , conducted by the Giamas Lab at the University of Sussex and the Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, and published in Molecular Cancer , has revealed that LMTK3 acts like a ‘control knob’ that changes the size and content of microscopic ‘parcels’ that cancer cells release to communicate with their surroundings.
These parcels – known as extracellular vesicles (EVs) – normally carry signals such as proteins, DNA and lipids, but when LMTK3 is highly active, they contain specific instructions that persuade incoming immune cells to stop fighting and start helping the tumour grow.
Researchers performed extensive studies in breast-cancer cells, including treatment with a molecule named C28, the first drug designed to block LMTK3.
Once the LMTK3 protein was shut down, the modified parcels lost their power to promote tumour growth, while immune cells, called monocytes , were able to enter the tumour and remained in attack mode rather than switching sides.
High levels of LMTK3 in patient tumours have long been linked to poorer survival.
Scientists now believe the protein could serve two roles at once – both as a drug target and as a biomarker to help doctors identify which patients are most likely to benefit.
The group is now working with pharmaceutical partners to turn C28 into a medicine suitable for human trials and to create even stronger , more specific follow-up compounds.
At the same time, pre-clinical studies are testing whether LMTK3 drugs can be safely paired with widely used ‘checkpoint’ antibodies that release other immune brakes.
The Giamas Lab , along with hospital teams, is also aiming to begin measuring LMTK3 levels in routine biopsy samples, hoping to match future drugs to patients ’ individual needs .
Co-author Dr Mark Samuels said: “This exciting study highlights how one protein, like LMTK3 , can be so multifunctional.
It was fascinating to see how it disrupts immune cell function by modifying extracellular vesicle biogenesis.
“This adds an important layer to our understanding of how tumours manipulate their surroundings to avoid immune destruction.”

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/privacy-and-cookies/privacy:
Read about how we process information about you (known as personal data) and find out about your rights.
This notice outlines the University’s processing activities relating to personal data and covers the following:
The University of Sussex is registered as a data controller with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
Our registration reference is Z6428144.
You can refer to the University’s Data Protection Policy for more information about our commitment to processing personal data in a way that is compliant with applicable data protection legislation .
The Data Protection Officer for the University of Sussex is Alexandra Elliott, Head of Information Management and Compliance.
If you have any queries concerning your personal data and how it is processed, you can contact the Data Protection Officer at dpo@sussex.ac.uk .
Under the University’s Royal Charter, the University’s purpose is ‘ to advance learning and knowledge by teaching and research to the benefit of the wider community ’.
The University processes personal data largely on the basis that it is necessary for the performance of our tasks carried out in the public interest (‘public task’) , in connection with our teaching and research activities.
We also process personal data to provide administrative and support services to our students and staff; to support alumni relations and fundraising; to promote the University and recruit students; to maintain our records, accounts, and commercial activities; and to manage the overall running of the University and maintenance of its campus, including monitoring and evaluating its performance and effectiveness.
Additionally, we process personal data because it is necessary for the performance of a contract , or in order to take steps at an individual’s request prior to entering a contract.
For example, this may include interacting with individuals before they are enrolled as a student, as part of the admissions process, or the recruitment and hiring of staff.
We may also need to process personal data to comply with our legal obligations .
This can include compliance and regulatory obligations, immigration obligations and safeguarding requirements, or to assist with investigations carried out by the police or other authorities.
We may also process personal data for the purpose of, or in connection with, legal proceedings (including prospective legal proceedings), for the purpose of obtaining legal advice, or when necessary for the purposes of establishing, exercising or defending legal rights.
In some cases, we process personal data because it is necessary for our or a third party’s legitimate interests , or in circumstances where we have specific consent to do so.
Finally, in limited circumstances, we may also process personal data where it is necessary to protect a person’s vital interests namely matters of life or death.
Personal data may include ‘ special categories of data ’ as described in data protection legislation, such as information about an individual’s racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, and physical or mental health.
When we process special category data, we must meet additional conditions in the data protection legislation .
Usually, this means having the person’s explicit consent but other examples of situations where we process special category data include:
Information about how and why the University processes special category data, as well as criminal convictions data, and how we safeguard this data can be found on our Data Protection pages and in our Appropriate Policy Document .
Further information about the processing of this type of personal data is published on the ICO’s website .
Information is collected in different ways depending on your interaction with the University and personal data is processed for the purposes outlined below.
We collect personal data from visitors to the University’s website through the use of online forms as well as when you email us with an enquiry.
We collect information about the transactions you undertake through the website including details of payment cards used.
In addition, we collect information automatically about your visit to our website.
Further information about ‘Cookies’ is set out below.
We may process personal data collected through this website or other electronic networks used by the University, for the purposes of advertising, marketing, public relations and general advice services, such as:
We collect personal data from individuals who are enquiring about the admissions process and/or considering submitting an application to study at the University.
We collect personal data via student applications through the UCAS system and our own application systems.
Should you subsequently enrol as a student at the University, a student record will be created for you.
The data collected from prospective students, students, and/or alumni of the University is used for the following purposes:
* The provision of welfare and support services may sometimes involve special category data and where necessary, your consent will be sought and we will provide additional information.
For more detailed information about how we use personal data as part of our alumni relations, see our alumni services privacy notice .
Your personal data may be used to send you details of products or services that we offer that we have identified as likely to be of interest to you, but you will only be contacted according to the preferences you submit when providing your personal data.
If you would like to change these preferences (e.g.
opt out of receiving some communications or change channels used for contact) at any point, you can:
We collect personal data via the employment application and recruitment process, and when you enter into a contract as an employee of the University.
The way your data is used is outlined below:
Basic personal details can be maintained via Sussex Direct and MyView, and/or by contacting your Human Resources representative .
Research is part of the University’s public task and our research activities will often involve the processing of personal data, including special category data.
Further information can be found below and within our Research policies .
A range of personal data is collected through our research activities.
This may include details about a person such as their name, family information and work details, a person’s thoughts or feelings, or their views or opinions on specific research areas.
Data is collected in a variety of ways, such as through questionnaires, interviews and focus groups, and from individuals themselves or others.
We may collect data from third parties or by extracting data from websites (known as data scraping).
Third parties may include commercial or private organisations, or public and government bodies such as the NHS, HMRC or the Department for Education.
For instance, we may request personal data from the Department for Education relating to pupil, learner and workforce datasets such as the National Pupil Database and the School Workforce Census.
This can include data such as name and address, school details, learner records, special educational needs of pupils, salary information of teaching staff and special category data such as ethnicity and disability.
We only collect personal data that is needed for the research purposes and only keep the information in a way that enables individuals to be identified, for as long as is necessary.
Where our research involves human participants, the research is subject to an ethical review process.
This ensures that all ethical matters have been considered and the processing of personal data is appropriate.
Research participants are provided with an information sheet relating to the specific piece of research they are participating in, which includes information on the collection, use, and retention of their personal data.
Our research may include special category data such as ethnicity, political or religious views, genetic data and health data.
The use of special category data in our research activities is on the basis that ‘ processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes ’ (Article 9(2)(j) of the UK GDPR).
As a University we use personal data to conduct research to improve health, care and services, and we ensure that it is in the public interest when we use personal data from people who have agreed to take part in research.
This means that when you agree to take part in a research study, we will use your data in the ways needed to conduct and analyse the research study.
Some of your rights, such as deletion of your data from the research project, may be limited, as we need to manage your data in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
If you withdraw from the study, we will keep the information about you that we have already obtained.
To safeguard your rights, we will use the minimum amount of personal data possible.
Health and care research should serve the public interest, which means that we have to demonstrate that our research serves the interests of society as a whole.
We do this by following the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research .
We capture images and videos on campus for our communications and for promotional use on the University’s website, social media channels, and/or print materials, some of which may include individuals.
In cases where individuals are clearly identifiable, consent will be obtained.
The University also records video footage of some events, such as our graduation ceremonies, for the purpose of making these available via its website to those who are unable to attend.
Notices will be posted at events and information made available for those who prefer not appear in any footage.
To enable video conferences and meetings to take place, the University recommends the use of a number of approved technology solutions (e.g.
Microsoft Teams and Zoom), which have recording capabilities.
Where recording of meetings or conferences is required, personal data is processed with the consent of those involved where necessary.
The University processes personal data through the use of surveillance systems, such as CCTV, Body Worn Video devices and ANPR, to monitor and collect visual and audio recordings to provide a safe environment for students, staff and visitors to the campus and for the purposes of security along with parking.
Such personal data may be used for the prevention and detection of crime; for evidential purposes to support criminal, civil and other proceedings, including disciplinary investigations against staff and students; for assisting in traffic management and parking enforcement; and to assist in Health and Safety requirements and other legal or regulatory compliance obligations.
The University will only keep your personal data for as long as is necessary for the purpose for which it is processed, unless required by law or other exemptions to keep it for longer.
Personal data is processed and stored in line with the University’s Records Management Policy and the associated Master Records Retention Schedule , which sets out how long different categories of personal data should be held by the University.
We will only disclose your personal data to a third party when we are required to by law, where there is a lawful basis for doing so – such as having your specific consent - or where it is necessary and appropriate safeguards are in place.
For instance, we may disclose personal data to:
We are also required to send personal data to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
HESA collects personal data relating to staff, students and leavers from Higher Education.
Details of how HESA will process your personal data can be found in the relevant HESA notices .
We will also share personal data with the Higher Education Access Tracker (HEAT).
HEAT is a nationwide database used by universities, which helps us to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of our Access and Participation Plan.
Details of how HEAT processes your personal data and for what purposes, and your rights in relation to your personal data can be found in the relevant HEAT notices .
From time to time, the University will transfer personal data outside the United Kingdom.
Personal data will only be sent to countries that have equivalent data protection safeguards or where we have arrangements in place to ensure the appropriate safeguarding of data.
You have a number of rights under data protection legislation:
Not all the rights apply in all circumstances.
For more information, refer to our Data Protection pages for guidance, including on how to submit a subject access request, or contact the Data Protection Officer .
Further information about your rights can also be found on the ICO’s website .
You have a right to complain to the ICO about the way your personal data is processed if you have concerns.
Information on how to report concerns to the ICO is provided on their website.
Cookies are files placed on your computer to collect standard internet log information and visitor behaviour information.
This helps us to understand visitor behaviour, to remember your preferences and improve user experience.
For further information about cookies you can visit knowcookies.com and to find out more about how the University uses cookies, please refer to cookie information web page .
Our website may contain links to other websites that are outside our control and are not covered by this privacy notice.
Our notice only applies to the University of Sussex’s website so when you link to other websites, you should read their own privacy policies.
We keep our privacy notice under regular review and the notice was last updated on 1 July 2025.
If you have any questions about our privacy notice or the personal data we hold about you, you can contact the University’s Data Protection Officer by email at dpo@sussex.ac.uk or you can write to Alexandra Elliott, Data Protection Officer, University of Sussex, Sussex House, Falmer, Brighton, BN1 9RH.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/privacy-and-cookies/cookies:
A 'cookie' is a small text file that is stored on your computer or mobile device when you visit some websites.
Cookies do lots of different jobs, such as letting you navigate between pages efficiently, remembering your preferences, and improving your experience of our website.
They can’t harm your computer.
The University of Sussex makes limited use of cookies while you are browsing the website.
We generally only use session-based cookies, which are deleted when you close your browser.
Our cookies are anonymous, containing no information that can identify you personally.
We do use some third-party widgets on the site, such as Google Analytics, Twitter and YouTube.
These widgets may set cookies.
However, the cookie information from each of these sites is usually anonymous, unless you are logged in to those third-party systems while you are on our site.
When you arrive on www.sussex.ac.uk, you can choose whether to accept or reject the use of non-essential cookies using the banner at the top of the page.
We may also use some cookies that are not listed – these will contain no personal information about you.
You can opt out of or disable cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, although this means you might not be able to use the full functionality of our website.
We're working to prevent any unwanted cookies from being stored on users' devices unless they choose to accept, but there may be some we miss.
We are also aware that some site sections and subdomains are still setting non-essential cookies and we are in the process of addressing these.
If you find any services setting unwanted cookies, please contact us at dcm@sussex.ac.uk .
There may be a number of cookies set via our website, depending on what part of our system you log in to.
All of the following are considered essential cookies for the operation of the website and services staff and students log in to (such as Study Direct):
This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc.
Google Analytics uses cookies to help analyse how the website is used, for example where our site visitors come from, the devices and browsers they use, session statistics, and how they interact with our website.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.
Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for us and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.
Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf.
We also use separate Google products similar to Analytics.
These are Optimize, which is used to carry out tests to improve user experience, Tag Manager, which tracks actions on our site, and Search Console, to analyse website performance.
Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.
Parts of this website use Twitter feeds, a micro-blogging platform by Twitter, Inc.
Twitter widgets may add third-party cookies – those not set directly by our site – to help analyse usage and remember your session if you are also logged in to the Twitter service.
To that end, Twitter widgets may set all of the cookies that Google Analytics set and also:
In addition, Twitter's Universal Website Tags allow us to specify actions you can take on our site (in the same way as AdWords Remarketing above).
Read the Twitter Privacy Policy .
Parts of this website contain embedded videos from YouTube.
Where possible, we've set this to use YouTube's 'nocookie' domain so that it will not store any cookies.
Read the YouTube Privacy Policy .
Parts of this website contain embedded videos from Vimeo.
We have set these so that no cookies are stored, where possible.
Further information:
This website uses Google Analytics Demographics and Interest reporting.
Visitors can opt-out by using the Ads Settings .
Visitors can also opt out using the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on .
Further information about Google products and cookies:
Parts of this website use DoubleClick cookies.
DoubleClick uses cookies to improve advertising.
Some common applications are to target advertising based on what’s relevant to a user, to improve reporting on campaign performance and to avoid showing ads the user has already seen.
DoubleClick Floodlight tags help us track conversions (where someone clicks on an advert) and your actions on our site once you've clicked on one of our adverts.
These tags also compile lists of users for use in future marketing campaigns.
Find out more about DoubleClick .
This is the technology we use to target audiences based on website behaviour across Google Search, the Google Display Network, Gmail and YouTube.
It allows us to specify actions you can take on our website (such as viewing a category of page, watching a video or submitting a form) and then target advertising at either people who have completed these actions, have not completed these actions, or those whose demographic profile matches those who have completed a particular action.
AdWords Remarketing is set up within JavaScript code on pages of our website.
This code uses cookies to collect a user ID number and to collect, store and send other contextual information such as pages you have viewed, your device and the actions you've taken.
Collecting personally-identifiable information (such as your name or email address), although possible, is forbidden by the AdWords terms of service and by data protection law.
Parts of this website use Facebook cookies and pixels.
Pixels are small blocks of code on webpages that do things like allow another server to measure viewing of a webpage and often are used in connection with cookies.
Cookies and pixels are used to understand and deliver ads and make them more relevant to you.
The user ID collected relates to your Facebook account and the data collected is used to advertise across Facebook, Messenger and Instagram.
These pixels are also used to attribute website conversions back to advertising sources.The same privacy restrictions as AdWords Remarketing (above) apply.
Further information can be found on the Facebook website .
Parts of this website use AppNexus cookies.
AppNexus uses unique cookies to identify web browsers and to store data for advertising purposes, including interest-based advertising.
AppNexus is designed to use only non-Personal Identifiable Information (PII), and AppNexus has contractual provisions that prohibit clients of the Platform from associating Platform cookies with PII.
AppNexus uses cookies to associate non-PII with browsers and devices, so that clients can then use the information to select ads for delivery by the Platform.
Further information can be found on the Appnexus website .
The site uses cookies set by Amazon Marketing software.
Amazon Marketing cookies are used to deliver targeted advertising based on your behaviour on the site.
In addition to this, cookies are used to measure the results of advertising.
These cookies will not be associated with personally identifiable information.
Data is sent to the Amazon Marketing platform and is only accessible to authorised people.
Read the Amazon Privacy Policy .
We use a LinkedIn Insight Tag, through JavaScript, to analyse LinkedIn ad campaigns.
We use it to track conversions, retarget website visitors and unlock additional insights about people interacting with our adverts.
We use a Universal Event Tracking (UET) tag to help track marketing campaign performance and conversions.
We can retarget our search audience and track conversions.
Parts of this website use TikTok cookies and Pixel.
Cookies help the measurement, optimization and targeting of your campaigns.
Performance is boosted when first and third party cookies are paired with Advanced Matching.
Cookies save visitor's conversion events related to an advertising campaign.
On the other hand, a session ID is generated on the advertiser’s site, which saves event information about a user's single visit, such as page views or conversions.
Third-party cookies extend beyond individual sessions and collect campaign-related events across different sites and sessions.
There are two types of cookies:
Further information can be found on the TikTok website .
Parts of this website use Snapchat cookies and Pixel.
The Snap Pixel is a piece of JavaScript code that helps us measure the cross-device impact of our advertising campaigns.
We will be able to see how many Snapchatters take action on our website after seeing our Ad.
Parts of this website use HubSpot cookies.
Some common uses are to target information, for example about research, events, and knowledge exchange, interest-based advertising and email marketing.
HubSpot uses unique cookies to identify web browsers and to store data for such purposes, as well as for website analytics to help us better understand what information might be useful to individual users.
These cookies will not be associated with personally identifiable information unless you opt-in during an optional email sign up or web form.
Data is sent to the University Business School's HubSpot platform and is only accessible to authorised University of Sussex staff.
All communications from the HubSpot platform contain an opt out/unsubscribe button so users can unsubscribe from further communications.
Further information can be found on the HubSpot website .
Parts of our website use Dianomi cookies and JavaScript code.
Dianomi uses cookies for the purposes of personalising digital advertising, by recording which users have visited certain websites and recording certain actions that they perform.
Dianomi PLC participates in the IAB Europe Transparency and Consent Framework and complies with its specifications and policies.
Further information can be found on the Dianomi website .
Parts of our website use pixels/cookies set by Ozone.
Ozone uses cookies for the purposes of personalising digital advertising, by recording which users have visited certain websites and recording certain actions that they perform.
Further information can be found on the Ozone website .
We use this non-essential cookie to track users for analysis purposes.
We also use an agency called Anything is Possible to manage our advertising campaigns.
These campaigns use cookies to monitor the effectiveness of our advertising.
Sites linked to the University of Sussex that are not controlled by the central Digital Development team.
These sites may set cookies and have their own cookie information pages.
You can find out more about cookies on the Know Cookies website .
Alternatively, contact us if you have any other questions.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/privacy-and-cookies/disable-cookies:
Find out how to disable cookies, depending on which browser you're using.
You can disable cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, although this means you might not be able to use the full functionality of our website.
Information about how cookies can be controlled within the various browsers:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/disclaimer:
The information presented on the University of Sussex website is intended for those interested in learning more about the University, as well as for current students and staff.
The central University offices and any associated schools/units have taken all reasonable care in producing these web pages, which we believe were accurate at the time of initial publication or last modification.
However, circumstances do change over time and the University cannot accept responsibility for errors or omissions.
Users are advised to verify the details contained in these web pages with the relevant University office or authority before making decisions based on the published information.
This website contains information on the courses offered by the University of Sussex, which include undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
You can read the full terms and conditions on which the University makes offers of places on its courses, including those listed on its website.
Study programmes, facilities and services and the fees for such programmes, may be subject to change.
Copyright © University of Sussex 2025
The copyright of images and information contained within the sussex.ac.uk domain is owned by the University of Sussex.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/website/contact:
We want you to be confident about your privacy and security while using our website.
Contact us if you have any questions.
You can email dcm@sussex.ac.uk if you have any queries or concerns about your privacy or security.
You can also ask us about our use of cookies and our accessibility practice.
If you have a general or course related query please see our contacts on the Contact us web page .
The Planning, Governance and Compliance office is responsible for effective corporate governance and compliance processes, including the business of the University's governing body, records management and data protection.
You can email the Information Officer at dpo@sussex.ac.uk .
If you need to send us something, our postal address is:
University of Sussex Sussex House Falmer Brighton BN1 9RH United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/university-of-sanctuary:
The University of Sussex has a proud and radical tradition of providing sanctuary for academics and students, and is committed to making the University a welcoming and safe place for forced migrants and asylum seekers.
The University of Sussex is an official University of Sanctuary , after being awarded the status in 2020 .
This recognises our commitment to promoting a culture of welcome, safety and inclusion across our campuses and their wider communities, as well as commitment to the City of Sanctuary Charter .
Universities of Sanctuary are part of the UK’s City of Sanctuary initiative to ensure our nation is a welcoming place of safety for all.
The University of Sanctuary team will use the University of Sanctuary status to:
University of Sussex staff and students have a long history of supporting those seeking sanctuary and raising awareness of their needs, including through our research, community engagement, and campaigning activities.
Sussex was the first British university to offer Mandela Scholarships .
In a pioneering effort to counter the injustice of apartheid and raise the profile of Mandela’s struggle for freedom, students at Sussex founded the scholarship in 1973.
See:
The steering group coordinates, supports and develops activities in relation to University of Sanctuary status.
The steering group brings together colleagues from across the University of Sussex, and external representatives, including those from refugee communities.
The forum is an open meeting for anyone in the university community and beyond to come together to discuss issues related to Sanctuary.
You can sign up to our Sanctuary Forum mailing list using the form below.
Sign up to our Forum mailing list to learn more about the University of Sanctuary and the discussions you can get involved with.
You'll receive notifications of upcoming events, meetings, news and publications.
universityofsanctuaryadmin@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/60-years-of-sussex:
Beginning in August 2021, we celebrated 60 years of Sussex.
Explore how we marked six decades of groundbreaking research, providing our students with an exceptional education and how we’ve helped shape the future for thousands of people.
On 16 August 1961, the University of Sussex received its Royal Charter.
This was an historic moment, not just for Sussex, but for higher education in the UK.
We were the first of seven new universities established after the Second World War and we had the freedom to offer a new type of learning.
On our 60th anniversary, we reflected on this legacy, how it’s shaped who we are, and how it’s prepared us to look towards the future.
See video transcript
From architectural gems to outrageous art, from ceremonial silverware to 'I love Sussex' mugs, there are so many objects that help to tell the story of our University.
Here, in celebration of the many parts that help to make the whole, we have trawled our archives, our campus landscape, and our memories to select dozens of objects that we feel reflect what's special and unique about Sussex.
Explore Sussex in 60 Objects.
Have a great story about your time at Sussex?
We want to hear from you – and we also love hearing what our alumni have gone on to do after leaving university.
Share your story with us .
Development and Alumni Relations University of Sussex Falmer Brighton United Kingdom BN1 9RH
Connect:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/academic-freedom-and-freedom-of-speech:
Find out about our commitment to academic freedom and freedom of speech.
Academic freedom and freedom of speech are fundamental to higher education and research.
They allow for the exchange, within the law, of diverse beliefs, theories, and opinions, and play a central role in innovation and discovery.
They ensure that different voices are heard in debate and discussion, and they facilitate inquiry and study in a range of areas that are sometimes complex and controversial.
The University of Sussex values inclusivity, courage, kindness, integrity, and collaboration in all that we do.
We are committed to promoting academic freedom and freedom of speech through providing an environment for the peaceful exchange of diverse viewpoints that can be scrutinised and explored with civility.
Sasha Roseneil, University of Sussex Vice-Chancellor and President, says: “All universities, and Sussex in particular, are places where established ideas and knowledge are challenged and reworked.
And because the best ideas, the strongest concepts, and the most impactful research findings are those that have been subject to rigorous challenge, universities need to be inquisitive environments.
Their curricula and cultures have to support and facilitate the contestation of conventional wisdom, and the pursuit of novel, sometimes unpopular, even disturbing, lines of inquiry.
"As institutions dedicated to education, universities are places of encounter with new, and often difficult, ideas, through which identity, character, and worldview change and develop.
As such, they provide a wide range of disciplined training in methods of investigation, interrogation, and debate that equip graduates with essential life and citizenship skills, as well as offering more informal spaces for students to explore politics, culture, and social relationships, in which emergent critiques of the status quo and visions of the future can be forged.”
The University of Sussex is committed to the delivery of its charitable objectives, which are set out in our founding Charter .
Our Statutes commit us to ensuring that academic staff have freedom, within the law, to carry out teaching and research, including the publication of the outcomes of research, in a way which questions and tests established ideas and received wisdom, and presents controversial or unpopular points of view, without placing themselves in jeopardy of losing their jobs or privileges.
The University takes steps to ensure that lawful freedom of speech and expression is secured for all staff and students and for visiting speakers.
Freedom of expression applies not only to information, ideas or works of art that are favourably received, but also to those that offend, shock, or disturb.
We will also uphold the right of any member of staff to express political, religious, social, and professional views, both privately and in public, provided that this is within the law and is done explicitly in their own name and not in that of the University.
Allowing opposing views to be heard is encouraged by the University, with appropriate and timely risk assessments undertaken as required.
As part of this, we have a Code of Practice and External Speakers’ Procedure for the organisation of meetings and other events on University premises.
Freedom of speech is not an absolute right.
There is a legal framework within which the University must operate, whilst securing both freedom of speech and academic freedom.
This includes having regard to laws that govern public order.
The University is subject to various pieces of legislation in respect of academic freedom and freedom of speech, including Article 10 and 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights , section 43 of the Education (No.
2) Act 1986 and section 202 of the Education Reform Act 1988 .
As a registered Higher Education institution, the University is required to comply with the regulatory regime operated by the Office for Students (OfS).
The Higher Education and Research Act 2017 sets out the regulatory regime operated by the OfS as a condition of registration with the OfS, universities are expected to adhere to a list of Public Interest Governance Principles .
These include both academic freedom (academic staff at an English higher education provider have freedom within the law to question and test received wisdom; and to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions without placing themselves in jeopardy of losing their jobs or privileges they may have at the provider) and freedom of speech (the governing body takes such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that freedom of speech within the law is secured within the provider).
As of 11 May 2023 the University is also subject to the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023 which strengthens the duties regarding freedom of speech imposed by section 43 of Education (No.2) Act 1986 and creates a new duty for higher education providers to promote the importance of lawful freedom of speech and academic freedom in the provision of higher education.
The University of Sussex responded to three consultations by the Office for Students ( OfS ) on their new complaints scheme, guidance and regulating student unions.
They relate to the implementation of the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023, implementation of which was subsequently paused but much of which will now be put into practice on 1 August 2025.
The cross-sector consultations welcomed views from anyone with an interest in freedom of speech in English higher education.
The OfS has recently published their regulatory advice.
Read our communications about the investigation into freedom of speech by the Office for Students.
The University monitors compliance with all of the public interest principles through a sub-committee of Council, which annually receives a compliance report for review, and provides assurance to Council
Senate , as the senior academic body of the University (and subject to the general control and approval of Council), is responsible for academic standards and the direction and regulation of academic matters, with a clear responsibility for upholding and promoting free speech and academic freedom.
Professor David Ruebain, the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Culture, Equality, and Inclusion, is the University’s Free Speech Officer, and provides oversight of academic freedom and freedom of speech within the life and operation of the University.
My name is David Ruebain.
I'm the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Culture, Equality and Inclusion.
I'd like to talk about the University's obligations and how we support and enable freedom of speech and expression, and also academic freedom.
This is especially important to us as we are committed to providing an environment for the peaceful exchange of diverse viewpoints that can be scrutinised and explored with civility.
You may know that universities have specific legal obligations in these areas, and I'm going to say something about those.
But as a starting point, I wanted to stress that for all universities, freedom of speech, diversity of thought, the ability to inquire and to research and to follow the evidence and to create is critical and foundational.
And it's the basis upon which much progress, indeed, all progress has happened over the years and centuries.
So for universities, including Sussex, these are issues which we take very seriously and are important to our work going forward.
I mentioned the legal framework.
There is a detailed legal framework which covers our obligations.
They are contained in the Education Number Two Act 1986, the Education Reform Act 1988, and the Human Rights Act 1998.
And indeed forthcoming legislation which is being piloted through Parliament at the moment in the form of the Higher Education Freedom of Speech Bill.
In summary, we have a variety of requirements to ensure freedom of expression and freedom of speech within the law is secured for those in our community, for our members, our students and employees, and indeed visiting speakers.
Our Freedom of Speech Code of Practice guides our community on this.
And I have specific oversight responsibilities as the Free Speech Officer, along with Council and Senate, our most senior governance bodies within the University.
We are also required to ensure that academic staff in the University have the right to question and test received wisdom and to put forward new ideas, including controversial or unpopular opinions, without fear of being sanctioned for doing so, as long as the law is not broken.
And this right is, in fact, enshrined in our University statutes, which ensures that freedom of speech and academic freedom are at the heart of our work here at Sussex.
Watch an excerpt from a speech at Graduation in summer 2024 in which the Vice-Chancellor talks about the University’s commitment to academic freedom and freedom of speech, the diversity of the Sussex community, and the importance the University attaches to diversity of thought, belief and respectful disagreement.
Sussex students represent the most wonderful variety of backgrounds, beliefs, and identities.
You come each year from over 130 countries around the world.
So we have people in the audience today of many different nationalities and faiths.
And amongst everyone gathered here, there is surely a huge diversity of opinion and belief about almost every matter under the Sun.
And that diversity of thought and belief is a very special thing, something that Sussex as a University seeks always to uphold and support.
We have a foundational commitment to freedom of speech and academic freedom.
It's our job as a University to create an environment in which diversity of belief and opinion can be explored.
It's our job to nurture the conditions under which our students and staff can respectfully discuss and debate difficult ideas, where propositions can be tested, analysis undertaken, theories developed, and where minds can be expanded and changed.
We are living in deeply troubled times with war and conflict, terror, death, and the destruction of habitats, economic hardship, hunger, and inequality, as well as climate crisis and environmental degradation, giving rise to enormous concern amongst Sussex students.
Many Sussex students and their families and loved ones I'm sure, hold passionate opinions about the causes, consequences and solutions to these issues.
And as we gather here today to celebrate graduation, I would like to emphasise that the University supports and will always support freedom of expression that is lawful and respectful of others, mindful of the humanity and diversity that's at the heart of our University community, and that binds us together across nations and faiths as a global community.
So, Sussex graduands, I would like to thank you for all that you have contributed to making our University a place of community, inclusion and diversity, an open, warm, and welcoming place.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/this-is-us:
Explore the stories of some of our inspiring and extraordinary staff, students and alumni.
Hear Professor Winfried Hensinger describe how Sussex has become a powerhouse for quantum technologies.
Read how Naimat Zafary fled Kabul after the Taliban arrived, and now hopes his Sussex education can help his country.
Read alumna and Turner Prize-winner, Helen Cammock's reflections on the transformative power of art.
Find out why the University and Brighton are perfect for music technology undergraduate, Archie Sagers.
Read alumnus and human rights champion Justice Albie Sachs' hopes for the future of South Africa.
Find out more about Professor David Ruebain, the University’s Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Culture, Equality and Inclusion.
Explore how Professor Dave Goulson is using public engagement and citizen science to help conservation.
Learn about Ziyanda Dludla, a Mandela Scholarship recipient and Masters student, as she reflects on the diverse global perspectives Sussex offered her.
Find out about Dr Karis Petty’s project with Wakehurst Place to make walking groups more inclusive, with a specific focus on accessibility for blind walkers.
Hear from Masters student and Pitch for the Planet Award winner, Tom Merritt with his ‘Trees for Graduates’ initiative.
Hear from alumnus and award-winning journalist Clive Myrie as he reflects on his career after Sussex.
Hear from Professor of Informatics,Thomas Nowotny, about the urgency of balancing the development of AI with sustainability.
Find out about Shuaib Karmani, a mature Masters student, Startup Sussex winner, and a UC Berkeley and University of Sussex Big Ideas Contest Winner.
Hear how Ravi Jaiswal came from India to study for a Masters degree in Governance, Development and Public Policy.
Discover how former Masters student Alinery Lianhlawng, set up ‘Rochun: Pay It Forward’ to help young people in her home country find a purpose in life.
Dr Sarah Scuzzarrello discusses the importance of navigating research with curiosity and an open heart.
Masters student Daniel Ngg Cho talks about academic freedom, diversity, openness and kindness at Sussex.
Discover how Professor Stephen Wilkins is helping improve public understanding of science and encouraging more young people into science.
Find out how alumna and product design graduate Lucy Hughes won a James Dyson Award for developing a bioplastic.
Hear PhD student Alice Clark reflect on her project monitoring the recovery of biodiversity along the Sussex coast, and the University’s commitment to sustainability.
Hear from Awa Gaye Jeng as she reflects on the support she’s received from her tutors and academic advisers.
Discover how student ambassadors like Dubatri Gupta provide a warm and friendly face for all our prospective students.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/ei:
Learn about our high-quality courses and world-leading research in Engineering, Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, and Product Design.
Explore our courses in Engineering, Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, and Product Design and learn more about placement opportunities.
Discover the impact of our research.
Learn more about the School of Engineering and Informatics and what we do.
Find the right person to contact in our departments.
See the latest activities across the School.
Contact the School office: email ei@sussex.ac.uk or call 44 (0)1273 678195

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/schools/media-arts-humanities:
Media, Arts and Humanities brings together a wide range of disciplines including English, History, Art History, Philosophy, Media, Film, Music, Drama, Journalism and Language Studies.
The video comprises a series of quick video clips of Brighton, the South Downs, the University of Sussex campus and our students participating in activities related to their studies within the Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities.
The footage is set to upbeat instrumental music.
The video includes footage of students working with a range of camera equipment, sound equipment and editing software.
There is footage of students playing instruments, singing into microphones, and performing on stage at the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts.
Some footage features students reading books and newsletters and writing notes while sitting in a lecture theatre.
Other footage includes students doing a drama performance, alongside some clips of student animated work.
Throughout the video, text reads:
‘Are you inspired?’
‘Are you innovative?’
‘Are you creative?’
‘Are you curious?’
‘Courses, people and a city to inspire you.’
‘Excite your imagination.’
‘Join us.’
‘Media, Arts and Humanities.’
The video ends on a blue screen with the University of Sussex logo in the centre.
The Institute is the collaborative hub at the heart of research in Media, Arts and Humanities at Sussex.
It draws on the Sussex traditions of radicalism and innovation to support our research and creative practice from across the Faculty.
We combine theory, practice, activism and critical and creative work.
See some of our students’ latest creative work, from documentaries to musical performances, in our Showcase.
Explore our Showcase
Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities Office, Arts A07
media-arts-humanities@sussex.ac.uk
+44 (0)1273 678001
Learn more about the Executive Dean of the Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities .
Visit the current students and staff website .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/brand/staff/web/accessibility:
Read our guidelines on making and keeping our website accessible for all visitors.
Good design is inclusive design.
The term “accessibility” refers to making sure our website can be used by everyone – regardless of any impairment or disability.
We must strive to make our website perceivable, operable, understandable and robust.
It is the responsibility of everyone who creates content for the Sussex website (including documents) to make sure that it is accessible .
Read an introduction to web accessibility (W3.org) .
Impaiments and disabilities we must consider include:
Learn about the diverse abilities of different web users (W3.org) .
As a public sector body, we are legally bound to meet the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA standard across the website.
Read the UK government’s web accessibility legal requirements for public sector bodies .
We have a detailed web accessibility statement for users that outlines our responsibilities.
Watch a webinar from Adi Latif, from AbilityNet (Sussex login required)
Hello, my name is Daniel Hajas, and I came to Sussex in 2013, that was seven years ago, to do my undergraduate studies in physics.
Then I carried on with my masters and I’m currently doing a PhD in Informatics to do with science communication and haptics.
Some of the more frequently occurring things that are problems I face is usually when you have to fill out a form and submit things so it could be an assessment that you need to electronically upload or it could be a publication for some editor or anything like that.
And often as simple as just attaching a document and maybe a part of it is accessible.
You have this button to say, you know, attach your file and then you do.
And then maybe it did, maybe didn’t, because you don’t get like a feedback and accessible way.
Maybe it’s just a small visible icon somewhere, but it doesn’t read out to me.
Other things, usually if people try to be clever and then they say, like, here’s all this information that you need to know in a table and they just put a screenshot or some sort of image of a table, which is not helpful at all.
That’s happening quite often, of course, um, people using logos or images as the links.
So you’re meant to click this link, which looks like a green symbol, but then they, of course, forgot to having an alt-text or a link and description.
So often I don’t even know which.
I know that there are ten links, all of them unnamed, which I should I, uh, click to open a new some sort of form.
So those are quite frequently occurring.
One of the other things, I also often find that people, uh, inappropriately use accessible items.
So for example, there are different headings.
I was like one, three, six and they visually come with different font sizes and colours.
And it’s an easy way to make, you know, something really stand out like a big quote in the middle of the page.
Just make it to having level of one.
But then from a screen reader point of view, you kind of have this mental map of a website I like really I had level one should be almost a title on the top of the page.
And then maybe you have two big sections which are level two, and then each section would have like a couple of subsections of heading level four.
And it kind of all from the screen reader point of view makes sense.
The mental representation makes sense.
But then if you just put like a big heading level one quote in the middle of everything, then.
Your mind goes like, OK, what’s what’s happening here, you can almost disorientate yourself, and it’s very simple things that people can just pay a little bit attention to, to make it coherent and and really just follow guidelines.
The assistive technology that I use is really essential for my studies, and future career.
And some of the ways it helps me is that even just small admin task, for example, organising meetings, putting them on the calendar,emailing my supervisor just the usual tasks, you know, those fundamental things I can do completely independently.
But then also when I need to look at the research literature or, you know, just slideshows, documents, websites for information to collect data for my research or even analyse.
I mean, it makes a whole difference when something is accessible.
If I have an easy to use assistive technology or something that’s really slow, maybe I have to rely on some people.
So it’s both a factor of speed, effectiveness, you know, just my own happiness if I could achieve what I wanted, do I have to postpone until somebody comes.
And of course, with everything there is accessible and inaccessible websites and mobile apps or different platforms.
And it does really make a big difference, because if I need to, for example, just submit a paper, it’s already stressful to work on this assignment, on the actual publication.
And then you got to this stage like.
Right, I’m just going to send this off, you know, will you be faced with a nice and intuitive interface, which is 100 percent accessible?
And I just do this final, you know, filling out a form, or is it going to be like a new hassle?
Like you can’t even register to get your author’s account and you can upload all the documents, do the correspondence with the editors or the funding agencies, and it really can be like a big stress factor.
And then sometimes things are very short deadline like an editor might come back to you, like write we can publish this, but you need to fix a few things in like two days.
And what if neither of your colleagues are available to help then?
And if the website or the app is inaccessible, then you’re in a bit of trouble, which is an added stress.
Video ends
Whether you’re creating things yourself, or getting an expert to do it, all web pages, files and documents must be produced to meet the WCAG accessibility standards .
If you’re editing or adding content to our website, check our guide to creating accessible web pages and use our web components library .
Following accessibility best practices not only makes our website more inclusive but also improves web standards in general, such as SEO, usability and cross-platform compatibility.
Many members of staff create Word documents or Excel spreadsheets with the expectation that they will be uploaded on to our website.
These must be accessible because people with impairments may need to download them.
This requirement also stands for documents that will be sent by email to other staff members.
Find out how to:
Most of the time, it is better to update a web page instead of creating a PDF .
If you do need to create a PDF, find out how to:
There are a number of requirements we must meet to ensure videos can be understood by people with diverse abilities.
These help to improve the experience for all users.
See our guidance on commissioning accessible videos .
See our social media guidelines , including our responsibilities around social media accessibility.
If you are creating teaching documents or resources for Canvas, use the educational digital accessibility toolkit .
Digital accessibility is a shared responsibility.
Whether you're creating content, buying software or services, publishing documents or PDFs – you have a role to play in making sure we meet accessibility standards and legal obligations.
The Government Digital Service (GDS) periodically audits public sector websites on behalf of the Cabinet Office.
If they find serious accessibility issues, they can refer organisations (including Universities) to the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), which has enforcement powers.
While there are legal risks, our priority is to be a truly inclusive organisation – one that designs digital experiences that work for everyone.
If you have questions about accessibility or feedback on these guides, email dcm@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/brand/editors:
Know which web components you need to create and edit pages on the Sussex website, whether you are a developer or website editor with coding knowledge.
Webpage components on our external-facing website.
Webpage components on our student-facing website.
Webpage components on our internal staff-facing website.
Knowing components is half the story.
Learn how to update and maintain content so your pages are accessible, easy to use and in line with the Sussex brand.
Digital and Creative Media
dcm@sussex.ac.uk
Sussex House SH-230 University of Sussex Brighton BN1 9RH

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/search:
If you're looking for a particular individual, refer to our profiles search .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/virtual-tour/list.html:
If you are seeing this message, it is because your browser is unable to support the features used in the main Virtual Tour, instead, you can find the same content below
If you can see this message rather than a virtual tour then please email Revolution Viewing at support@revolutionviewing.com

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/staff:
Staff website Tell us what you think
Skip to main content Sussex homepage Students
Nominate someone to receive an honorary degree or fellowship from Sussex at a future graduation ceremony, by Friday 12 September.
The Print Unit is now closed and a new external service is available.
Find out how Print Marketplace works and how to set up your account.
Catch up on the latest research news, insights, and breakthroughs from across the University in our fortnightly archive.
Explore the archive
26 August 2025
25 August 2025
22 August 2025
See all staff news
2 September 2025 12:15 until 12:45
The service will be weekly, lasting about 30 minutes by our Anglican Chaplain, Rev Alan Green
3 September 2025 09:30 until 12:30
A session designed to provide hands-on support with developing and refining specific competence standards
4 September 2025 14:00 until 15:00
Online
Join us for this week's SAFE seminar to discuss crypto tokens and investor identity verification
See all staff events
Here are the ways you can get help as a member of staff.
You can contact on-campus security if you have any safety concerns.
Find out how to report an accident or incident .
View tools and guidance to support your wellbeing while working at Sussex, including our Employee Assistance Programme .
We do not tolerate bullying or harassment.
Everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect at work.
You can tell us what happened.
Disclose any unwanted behaviour using Report and Support.
University of Sussex Sussex House Falmer Brighton, BN1 9RH
University of Sussex homepage A-Z Accessibility Staff search
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Vimeo Sussex social media
Policies (including privacy and cookies) Copyright © 2025, University of Sussex

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/short-courses:
Explore all the short courses you can take at Sussex.
Our Language courses are designed to fit your lifestyle, with a range of languages and levels available.
Our online SKE courses can help to equip you for your Initial Teacher Training.
Develop your professional skills in teaching and social work through our TIP modules.
Our pre-sessionial, intensive and summer courses can help you reach a high standard of English for work or further study.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/student-stories:
“ It’s really cool that what I’m learning at work and at uni is interlinking .”
Ellie-Louise Herbert Marketing and Management (with a professional placement year) BSc
Read Ellie-Louise’s story

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/parents:
Find out how to support a young person preparing for university, and how we support current students.
A-level results day can be an exciting and stressful time for your young people.
Read our tips for parents and guardians on results day to find out how you can support them if they didn’t get the results they hoped for.
Going to university is a big step for any young person.
If you are a parent or guardian looking for tips on how to support someone getting ready for university:
Also see tips for parents on A-Level results day .
Applying to university can be confusing, to help your child or the young person you are supporting get their head around it, why not also learn about the application process?
Then you can support them if they do decide to apply.
See how to apply and how to write a personal statement .
Understanding fees and how to fund studies can be confusing for both parents/carers and students.
See our information about fees, funding options and how to use the UCAS application system .
You can also see more information about fees and funding at Sussex .
Visit as many universities as you can by attending Open Days.
Many universities also have virtual events and online campus tours so you can see the facilities on offer and where your child could be living.
Consider if they want to study at a campus or a city university.
Visit our Open Days webpage for dates and a virtual tour of our Falmer campus.
Knowing a child or young person is safe at university is a big concern for parents and carers.
Spend time researching and comparing housing options.
Are they happy with living on campus or would they prefer to be off campus?
At Sussex, most first year students live on campus in self-catered accommodation.
We have a campus security team which students can call upon 24/7.
We also have a team of residential advisors for each residence, so students always have a point of contact if they have any concerns.
In some cases we also help students if they would prefer to live off campus and rent privately.
Find out more about accommodation at Sussex and residential support .
We encourage all students to register for disability support before starting their course.
Disclosing a disability will not negatively influence a student’s application, grades or the qualification they receive.
It means we can support them to succeed as much as anyone else studying at Sussex.
Anything a student tells us about a disability is classed as sensitive personal data and treated confidentially.
Most students at university are aged 18 or over, which means they are adults.
We will only store and share information in accordance with the privacy policy of the Directorate for Student Experience .
We encourage students to be as independent as possible.
Often, the most helpful thing to do as a parent is support a student to access University services independently.
We recommend that students disclose any disability or learning difference when they apply to university.
They can also do this once they have arrived, but the sooner they tell us about their disability, the sooner we can help them.
If a student does not tell us about their disability, they may not receive the full range of support available.
There is a variety of support available to students as they settle into university and while they study, so you have peace of mind knowing their wellbeing is being looked after while they are away from home.
We have a library and Skills Hub where students can access study support .
We also have a buddy scheme to help students make friends.
If you are a social worker, personal adviser or foster parent Sussex provides a package of support for students who are Care Leavers.
Our Students' Union offers support and represents student views.
Almost everyone experiences feelings of homesickness at some point after going to university.
These feelings are completely natural and usually don't last for long.
Some people are better than others at dealing with feeling homesick.
Some people never admit that they feel this way at all.
But almost everyone will have these feelings when leaving home.
International students also have to adapt to a different culture and some experience culture shock.
You can support a student through homesickness by staying in touch with them and encouraging them to:
Students at the University can access a number of funding options and access support for finding work while they study.
Find out more on our Money and funding page .
The safety and privacy of all students at the University is our top priority – and always will be.
There may be times when you, as the parent or guardian of a person studying at Sussex, want to tell us about something that has happened.
You may also want to contact a family member or dependent, but be unable to reach them.
Contact our Student Centre team using our Parent and Supporters Enquiry form .
If you are, or become concerned about a student, we would strongly encourage you to share the concern so this can be followed up.
You can express your concern to the student and direct them to the Student Centre for further support.
Or you can contact our Student Centre team directly who will ensure this is followed up by the right people.
They will not be able to report back to you unless your student has provided consent for the University to do so, but they can encourage your student to get in touch with you.
If your student lives in University-managed accommodation, you can contact Residential Support services .
In an emergency, where a student is on campus, University security can be contacted on 01273 873333 .
In an emergency off-campus call 999.
We recognise our students as independent adults.
This means we need their consent to talk to anyone outside the University about them, including parents and guardians.
By law, we cannot confirm to a third party, including parents or guardians:
If we have their consent to share information, then we can disclose details with named contacts.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/value-for-money:
Your fees go towards helping you shape your future.
Find out how we use the money you pay for your course to provide you with world-class teaching and to help you get the most from your time at Sussex.
Your tuition fees add up to over half of our total income and are one of a variety of income sources that we receive.
As an organisation that receives funds from public sources, including the Office for Students and the Student Loan Company, we are committed to value for money.
The below chart shows our income for the year 2023/24.
The excess of income over costs produced a surplus of £89.8m, which increases to £96.2m when including our gains on investments.
The surplus includes a non-cash adjustment of £81.7m which is due to the way the University’s funding obligation to the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS)  is valued.
The underlying operating surplus, before recognising this non-cash USS adjustment and investment gains, is £8.1m.
* Includes: research grants and contracts, government grants, student residences, consultancy and other services, catering and student services, medical school services to the NHS, accommodation for International Summer School and conferences, donations and endowments, and income from investments.
To see a full breakdown of our income and expenditure – where our income comes from and how we spend it, download our accounts report (23/24) (PDF 2.9MB) or email us at: press@sussex.ac.uk .
If you are a home undergraduate student, your current yearly tuition fee is £9,250.
You can see how we spend this money throughout the year below.
Academic departments £2,673 – 29%
Central University running costs £1,493 – 16%
Operating and maintaining campus £1,490 – 16%
Future investment £788 – 9%
Library and IT £1,410 – 15%
Widening access to university £620 – 7%
Student wellbeing £776 – 8%
We are committed to providing you with high-quality teaching and an excellent learning experience.
That’s why we invest the equivalent of 29% (£2,673) of your tuition fee on the cost of the academic staff who teach and support you.
We also use it to fund other school-based staff and the resources and equipment used in schools to support your academic learning.
We want to ensure the University runs efficiently during your time with us.
We invest 16% (£1,493) of your tuition fee on the teams who keep the University running.
This includes Human Resources, Finance and Development and Alumni Relations, who keep us in touch with former students and undertake fundraising in support of scholarships and other programmes.
It also includes our senior leaders.
We are committed to providing a safe, accessible and inclusive environment for you to learn in.
We invest 16% (£1,490) of your tuition fee on maintaining things like our learning and social spaces, our Library building and sport facilities.
It does not include our student residences; these aren’t funded from your tuition fee.
We want to ensure we are investing in our future so we can provide our students with state-of-the-art facilities and up-to-date services.
We invest 9% (£788) of your tuition fee on developing these.
A current student will benefit from the contribution of previous students, and this investment directly helps to maintain and enhance the value of your Sussex qualification.
We want to provide library resources and technology that enhances your study experience at Sussex.
That’s why we invest the equivalent of 15% (£1,410) of your tuition fee on the staff and running costs of our Library and our IT team, IT equipment, infrastructure and technology.
We use part of your tuition fee (7% or £620) to fund scholarships and bursaries to support access to University for students from all backgrounds.
It includes our student recruitment and admissions teams as these are crucial to reaching and admitting potential students.
We want you to feel supported throughout your time at Sussex.
We invest 8% (£776) on the staff and running costs of the central services that support you and help you to get the most from your time at Sussex.
It includes careers, wellbeing, disability services, hardship support, sport and funding for the Students’ Union.
We will manage our resources effectively and efficiently, and invest as much of our income as we can, so you benefit from a world-class standard of teaching and research.
We will ensure Value for Money for both students, the taxpayer and wider society – in doing this, we will balance our operational priorities with our responsibility to ensure long term organisational sustainability and success.
Your fees mean we can continue to invest in our campus, teaching and facilities, so we can deliver an outstanding education and excellent student experience.
We will provide you with:
The University will maintain the value of a Sussex degree over the long term.
The University will ensure consumer protection to students .
Your tuition fees and our other sources of income have helped us invest in several areas for students.
You can now benefit from:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/60-years-of-sussex/message:
I was asked to make new plans for university, for young people, boys and girls, whether they can be happy together and learn to be good citizens.
My name is Roger Martin.
I was one of the second group of students to come through here, so I was here from 66 to 69.
You were at a university that was brand new.
It was beautifully designed.
It was a lovely location.
In a way, you imbibed that same feeling of newness.
Everyone I meet is absolutely passionate about Sussex.
They love this university.
And that passion, I think comes from the community and the founding values.
Those principles in 1961 that this university was set up with Sussex was also a little bit of a goldfish bowl in those days because the media was still fascinated by it.
Remember, this was the the mid 60s.
You had everything from Vietnam to flower power.
You had the social changes that were taking place.
And Sussex was part of that whole thing.
It gives the students and the staff different experiences about how to engage in the world.
It was a microcosm of the world.
I never felt judged.
I never felt that I had to think or act in a certain way to conform and never be.
Is that kind of personal touch where you genuinely feel your lecturers are invested in your education?
They treated you as a peer group and that was great for you.
Students are really encouraged to think differently, question things, try new approaches.
Don't be afraid to debate things with teachers realising that there's always a space for our ideas as well.
No one's ever excluded for how they think or what they believe or what they want to learn.
They told me not to be afraid of failure, but it also, I think, taught me that I believe in what I felt and that that belief was grounded in something.
I credit the people that I was around my peer group, my tutors, all of them together created that environment.
Sussex is really different because it's a single campus university, it's in this beautiful valley tucked into the south, stands next to Brighton in the summer.
The music, the people, the atmosphere, you really feel like you're living your best life.
I really enjoy the people I meet here.
There's always this very kind and very inclusive environment, people are always very interested to work together.
I think that environment of inclusiveness being kind to one another and supporting each other within university and what our university means, I think it's really important that we lack the ability to work across disciplines to address global challenges.
We have World-Class research going on here.
I'm somebody who likes to collaborate a lot.
When I say collaboration, I also mean collaboration with students.
If you if you give them that platform to express your views, express your ideas, you hear a lot of progressive views.
It still feels new.
It still feels interesting.
I think that's a credit to the designers, to the location and to the people who created that ethos, because that's obviously carried through the generations.
It's really allowed me to figure out what it is that I want to do in the future, trusting my creativity.
That's what's got me here in the first place.
I feel very moved when I think that Sussex is 60 years old.
It's incredible how much Sussex has done.
I mean, 60 years is not that old.
My time at Sussex was nothing short of transformational.
I walked away feeling I had the ability to change the world.
We could – and did – design our own academic structure, including pioneering the notion of ‘interdisciplinarity’ by combining separate but related subject areas into the curriculum.
This is now the standard for universities.
As well as intellectual freedom, we offered a bold new environment shaped by Sir Basil Spence’s daring architecture, the natural beauty of the Sussex countryside, and the emergence of Brighton as one of the hippest towns in Swinging Sixties Britain.
Things have changed – but not a lot.
We still have one of the UK’s most vibrant student communities, with individuals whose compassion, energy and commitment leads them to make real and positive change beyond Sussex.
Our cool campus is perennially adored and revered.
And our researchers and educators never stop pushing at and crossing intellectual boundaries – from the development of quantum technology to advancing the most effective and innovative ways to save our planet.
For our diamond jubilee year we’re planning a range of live and streamed public events to celebrate our great achievements and those who helped make them.
And we’re looking ahead to what we can do to be a better university for a better world.
Our journey continues.
Join the ride.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/strategy:
A better University
For a better world
Sussex 2025 reimagines the pioneering spirit of the original purpose of our University but does so for new times and a new generation
Disruptive by design
Designed to be different, the University of Sussex has a distinguished tradition of disruptive and experimental interventions.
We have challenged convention since the University’s foundation in 1961.
From the campus’ modernist architecture on the edge of a rural national park, to our progressive academics and creative professional services staff, to the inspiring students who choose to learn and live here, to the very tone of the institution and the nature of its conversations, through to the expressions of radicalism, critical thinking and, at times, dissent.
Today, our staff, students and alumni continue these traditions, making their own extraordinary contributions locally, regionally, nationally and globally.
Sussex 2025 reimagines the pioneering spirit of the original purpose of the University but does so for new times and a new generation.
Our five core values will shape what we say and do.
We will support our staff, students and alumni to create a flourishing and strong Sussex culture that continues our traditions of disruptive creativity and innovation.
At all times, we will strive for excellence in everything we do.
Our success and distinctiveness will be defined through our institutional values, and these will underpin our education, research and engagement activities.
We will seek to be known as a ‘kind’ institution.
We will care for each other and for the world around us, in responsible and sustainable ways.
We will value collegiality and mutual support across all of our actions and activities.
We will ensure that everyone within our community is treated with dignity and respect.
We will value and celebrate the diversity of our campus community and partners, and what they bring to our activities.
We will put collaboration at the heart of all that we do, seeking out productive and creative relationships.
We will acknowledge and celebrate everyone’s contribution.
We will speak out on issues that concern us and will face up to difficult challenges.
We will support those who have the courage to change and be bold, innovative, creative and experimental.
Through the transformative power of education, research and engagement, we will work for a better world.
Our framework for continuity and change
The University of Sussex has a long tradition of experimentation and innovation that has made a real difference to the lives of many students, and those who benefit from our research and wider endeavours.
We will build on these achievements and evolve as a better university, dedicated to making a better world.
Our framework will guide the institution to 2025 and beyond.
It is a seven-year transformation – an expression of what we stand for and how we will continue to build on our success whilst reinventing ourselves for the future.
In uncertain and changing times we will need to make tough choices if we are to turn our ambitions into reality.
By working towards a shared vision, and having an understanding of our common goals, we will prioritise our efforts.
Based on the vision and aspirations outlined in this framework, our academic schools and professional services divisions will develop their own strategies and operational plans which will articulate how they will contribute to the University’s goals and priorities.
Making students partners in the big decisions that shape our university's future
Our students will receive a transformative, high quality education and learning experience that will allow them to realise the futures that they want.
They will be able to embrace opportunities and challenges, making meaningful contributions in their own way.
Sussex students will develop the knowledge and skills to be critical thinkers, entrepreneurs, commentators, citizens and activists.
We will pioneer, develop and integrate across our on-site and virtual programmes, cutting-edge and creative innovations in educational pedagogy, learning methods and digital technologies.
Our curriculum will break boundaries, it will inspire students to be disruptive thinkers, and it will ignite our students’ critical and entrepreneurial imagination to meet future global challenges.
We will embed meaningful student participation in everything that we do.
Students will routinely participate as partners in the development of their learning, in the discovery of new knowledge, and in the big decisions that shape the University.
Student input will help to shape the future of our physical estate and the spaces in which they learn, as well as the design of the curriculum and the appointment of academic staff.
We will be recognised globally as an inclusive educational community, widening participation, where the diversity of our student and academic body is celebrated and the individual needs of our students are respected and supported through a personalised, holistic and inclusive approach.
We will be known as a university that is world leading in the development, application and use of smart technologies – whether that is the virtual and augmented reality of today or the new digital technologies of tomorrow.
We will use these technologies to enhance student learning, facilitate knowledge creation, aid educational administration and strengthen University governance.
Our students will be equipped with enviable levels of digital literacy and competencies in a wide variety of leading-edge technologies, ensuring they are able to challenge and succeed in the workplace of the future and in a rapidly evolving digital society.
We will use targeted investment and strategic partnerships to achieve these aims.
In partnership with our students, we will build creative opportunities that enhance their experience, and which extend their skills, confidence, competencies and networks so that they can imagine every possible future.
We will increase the opportunities for students to take placements and paid internships in government, industry and with civil society organisations, as well as to participate as volunteers, mentors and community organisers.
We will recognise the value of these diverse experiences through a new accreditation scheme that captures these and other contributions, giving students the opportunity to showcase and celebrate their attainments.
Our students will be confident, knowledgeable and skilled, with clear career choices and real opportunities.
They will be ready to be citizens of the world – connected, civically and politically engaged, entrepreneurial and creative.
We will have a nationally recognised programme to promote positive student physical and mental health, and wellbeing.
We will be known as a university that promotes good health and wellbeing throughout – and beyond – our students’ education.
We will have a fully accessible campus, with no areas ‘out of bounds’ to people with impairments or disabilities; we will have appropriate expert mental health services alongside good physical healthcare; our early warning and support systems will be sensitive, reliable and highly professional.
Our students will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge, skills and competencies through active engagement with the pressing research questions and challenges of our time.
They will enhance their skills by working independently and collectively on topics of mutual interest and significance.
They will become members of research groups, centres, networks and initiatives and work alongside academics and doctoral researchers, as well as drawing on wider partnerships beyond the University.
These research-practitioner and team-working experiences will provide valuable skills to help our students succeed in the workplace and communities of the future, and as citizens in the world of tomorrow.
By challenging conventional thinking and discourse, we will understand and help solve the grand issues of our time
We will reimagine ‘interdisciplinarity’ as a driving force for our research.
This will be internationally regarded.
Our research will create new agendas, contribute new knowledge and provide new ideas and solutions that will help to shape the world.
We will challenge conventional thinking and discourses, offering inspiring and creative ways to understand and solve global issues.
We will support and develop our researchers to recognise and deliver excellence, at all times.
Our mantra will be ‘quality not quantity’ and we will expect researchers to be able to produce world-leading work.
We will value research that has an impact outside academic circles as well as within the academy, and we will develop the skills and competencies of researchers to maximise the influence and impact of their work.
We will champion new ways to generate knowledge that challenge conventional wisdom.
Extending the boundaries of research, we will draw on technological and intellectual advances to build a distinctively Sussex research platform and agenda.
We will set up support mechanisms to help our researchers to develop throughout their whole career, as undergraduate researchers, postgraduate research students, postdoctoral researchers, early-career academics and established academic staff.
We will support the whole research lifecycle, from fundamental to applied research, from first ideas to practical application, with appropriate co-production and iteration with our external partners.
We will develop leadership and engagement programmes to support all of our research staff and future research leaders.
We will be recognised for the individuals undertaking world-leading enquiry and the strength of our research in key areas.
Sussex will grow these research areas and invest in emerging areas of excellence.
We will continue to nurture and develop research excellence wherever it is found.
Our research will transcend boundaries, be they disciplinary, geographical, political, sectoral or cultural.
We will collaborate with academic organisations, and communities beyond the academy, confronting the grand challenges facing society and the economy – locally, regionally, nationally and globally.
Building on our pioneering heritage of interdisciplinarity, we will reclaim our reputation as the university of choice for academics and doctoral students committed to interdisciplinary research and engagement, and for students who want to understand their world beyond disciplinary boundaries.
Interdisciplinarity provides creative opportunities to rethink old and emerging challenges in new ways.
We will re-energise our staff and students to the possibilities of this – to deliver both greater knowledge and action for change.
We will do this by supporting the formation and development of interdisciplinary research programmes, groups and networks based on recognised and emerging areas of excellence and grand global challenges.
Research at all levels will meet the highest standards of rigour, integrity, ethics and governance.
We will operate in an open environment and, wherever appropriate, enable access and share our research for public benefit.
We will support our academics to attract and access the resources needed to undertake ground-breaking research.
Our programmes will develop our researchers’ capabilities, networks and opportunities to maximise their success in grant capture – from small to large amounts – as well as supporting their ambitions to produce world-leading enquiry.
We will increase the number and quality of international research collaborations, partnerships and co-authorships, joining forces with researchers around the world to work on the global challenges that we all face.
We will build a greater international profile and reputation as one of the leading research universities in the world.
Our researchers will be highly regarded for the quality and distinctiveness of their work and for its wider impact.
Connected, engaged, entrepreneurial, creative...
And citizens of the world
We will be widely respected as an engaged university – interacting purposefully with people, organisations and communities at a local, regional, national and international level.
We will do this so that we can bring benefits to society at large, the economy and to the many individuals who are part of our world.
Our external engagement will enable greater public understanding of science, technology, medicine, health, society, the arts and humanities – challenging pre-conceptions and arming people with knowledge and ideas to inform their personal and collective choices.
We will contribute to the democratic process, inspiring citizens to be active agents in their own communities.
By doing this, we will learn and gain from our partners, just as much as they do from us.
We will embed the ethos and practice of external engagement across all of our academic schools and activities.
We will become connected to, trusted, and respected by more external partners at local, regional, national and international levels.
Diverse individuals and groups will feel more connected with the University and will benefit, as we will too, from greater access, interaction and knowledge exchange.
We will establish a development programme to provide academics and professional services staff with sector-leading training to develop their knowledge, skills and practices.
We will be seen as both listening and acting in the local and regional interest, working with public bodies, charities and civic society to find solutions to economic and social challenges.
We will co-deliver projects on the ground in local communities – making a real difference to people’s daily lives and helping our partners to tackle big and small issues.
We will be known as an anchor institution that convenes community dialogue and encourages social cohesion.
We will develop our volunteering programme, with more students and staff making valuable contributions to local communities, initiatives and projects, and we will recognise and value these interactions as transformative for individuals and the community.
With a network of alumni in more than 150 countries around the world, Sussex graduates are our best ambassadors and the embodiment of our values and knowledge.
Building on their warmth, loyalty and commitment, we will create new engagement opportunities that drive and encourage increased involvement with their alma mater.
We will establish an ambitious programme to include our alumni and supporters more extensively and effectively in our local, national and international engagements.
We will draw on their experiences, expertise and networks, to broaden our engagement activities and to widen our influence and impact.
Our alumni and supporters will join us in shaping the future of the University and will be at the heart of what makes Sussex a great and enduring institution.
We will use the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts, The Keep and our many assets to forge broader and deeper partnerships with local communities, creative and cultural industries.
The collections at The Keep, including our Special Collections and Mass Observation Archive offer an unrivalled record of regional and national history and social culture.
These assets will be used to ignite innovative, world-class teaching and learning across the disciplines, harnessing creative methodologies and emergent technologies to build on our pedagogical approach.
They will enhance our research, attracting grants and prestige partnerships.
Through the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts, we will bring the world’s leading artists, thinkers and provocateurs to the University to show their work and embed them in campus life.
We will embed business engagement, innovation and enterprise activities, addressing the relevant strands of the Government’s Industrial Strategy and its successors.
These activities will support productivity improvement and will be supported by well-regarded business engagement staff, working across the University to accelerate and maximise our business and industrial activities.
We will help and support academics to use these opportunities and collaborations for mutual benefit.
The Sussex Innovation Centre will become a leading hub for innovation and technology.
It will be a conduit for our enhanced commercialised, business engagement and knowledge exchange activities.
We will expand our unique Catalyst programme, which links students with business and industry.
This will complement their studies and University experiences, providing them with stronger career opportunities while growing the institution’s networks and reputation.
We will create an international leadership programme that will recognise and reward students who participate in mobility and inter-cultural awareness activities.
To enable this, we will develop a model that will allow more students to engage in having an international experience, whether at home or overseas.
This will be embedded in our curriculum, as well as extending to opportunities with overseas partners – bringing our students together with students from across the globe.
Additionally, we will develop programmes to enhance the international mobility opportunities for our staff, ensuring there are exciting and sustainable ways for colleagues to connect with partners and institutions throughout their academic and professional work.
We will create new, innovative, global hubs where research, teaching, blended learning and executive education can be delivered and that strengthen our international reach and reputation.
A people-powered transformation For a kinder university
We will re-engineer our processes, structures and governance with a special focus on our core professional services of Human Resources, IT, Finance and Estates.
Sussex will be known in the higher education sector for its agility, efficiency, effectiveness and care in enhancing and delivering our academic vision, strategies and priorities.
We will have a confident and agile academic and administrative workforce, which understands its role in delivering the University’s priorities and value-for-money outcomes.
Our staff and students will recognise the institution as one that values its people as 
							its greatest asset.
We will draw on our people to deliver great outcomes.
Our staff will be supported to do their best teaching and research, and our students will be empowered as partners in their education.
Exceptional teaching and research contributions will be rewarded equally.
Our professional services staff will be supported in their endeavours and will be respected from within the institution and across the sector.
Our alumni will be engaged actively in the life and work of the University, supporting students, being ambassadors for the University, and making their own distinctive contributions to engagement and the common good.
Strategic and competency-based frameworks will support the professional and personal development of all of our people.
This will help them to define their career journey and manage their own aspirations in a way that best aligns their goals with those of their school or division.
Using an inclusive people-centred approach, we will underpin our commitment to upholding equal respect across all our activities.
Success will be recognised and rewarded through a model that ascribes equal value to work undertaken in support of all the University’s education, research and engagement goals.
We will take bold action to reduce inequality and promote diversity and good relations.
We will transform the University so that our campus community has a fully inclusive experience, providing the kind of environment where people can achieve their ambitions and potential.
We will make this happen by being accessible, caring and flexible in everything we do.
We will establish a powerful and robust digital infrastructure, supporting our students in their education and learning; academics with their teaching; researchers in their pursuit of new knowledge, engagement and impact; and our professional services in the delivery of our priorities.
We will have a technological infrastructure in place that distinguishes us as a leading institution in digital transformation.
We will partner with leading organisations to build a digital campus fit for the 21st century; pioneering the use of smart technologies and other leading-edge innovations; championing the use of automated, immersive and experiential techniques; using state-of-the-art energy provision to dramatically reduce our impact on the natural environment.
We will capitalise more assertively on our location and place as a village-campus on the edge of Sussex’s stunning South Downs National Park, close to the sea and vibrancy of Brighton & Hove.
Our pride in place, and our commitment to local engagement, will position the University as a unique space to learn, live, work, thrive and revive – a creative community built on enabling, empowering and caring values.
A high-quality estate will attract students and staff to Sussex.
We will complete the next phase of our Estate Plan, having built more than 2,000 new bedrooms for our students, new teaching and research facilities and a student services centre.
In addition, we will have increased the number and quality of learning spaces both on and off the campus.
We will focus on core facilities to support the student experience, especially around the activities housed in our heritage and residential estate.
Sussex’s new estate strategy will clearly articulate the ten-year rolling programme of capital developments, as well as the ambition and challenge around the estate, enabling appropriate and timely developments and renovations to deliver our academic priorities.
Our focus on delivering cost-effective core services, to a high standard and in an environmentally sustainable way, will be well known.
The University has a strong business model that seeks to balance improvements in existing programmes and infrastructure with investment in new activity and people.
We will seek to increase resilience and capacity by diversifying income sources and increasing our delivery efficiency.
In doing so, we will aim to enable more ambitious investment into our education offering, research facilities, infrastructure, people and estate.
We will grow our surplus to ensure we can invest in the University’s future and become more resilient to wider economic and sector changes.
We will embed a model of ‘The Sussex Leader’, which exemplifies the values and behaviours that are expected of all those in leadership roles at Sussex.
This will foster and facilitate greater trust and devolution.
Using this model, we will develop our leadership competencies at all levels, ensuring that staff understand their own style and can adapt them to deal with different situations in order to motivate and energise their teams.
We will prepare staff for leadership roles early in their careers so they have the necessary depth and breadth of experience to take on roles with greater responsibility.
Significant steps will be taken to achieve greater diversity among our leaders.
Our leadership philosophy to embrace collaboration, trust and collegiality will be key to our future success.
As we develop our education, research and engagement activities, we will ensure that 
							we celebrate and harness these successes – sharing these widely with our networks and stakeholders.
Good news and success fuels positive energy and further achievement.
We will build inspiring narratives that infuse and energise our communities and diverse groups, and instil values of trust, openness and transparency.
Our engagements will be two-way – a conversation that matters.
If ever there was a time for a great university to stand on the sidelines this isn't it.
Visit the University of Sussex website
Course and application enquiries: study@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/all:
Read about our research, people and University – from the people who work here.
Items 1 to 9 of 736
15 August 2025
34th Annual International Conference on Virginia Woolf brings over 350 international Woolf scholars, readers and artists to the University of Sussex.
Prev
1 2 3 ...
82
Next

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/focus:
Find out how we’re responding to current affairs that impact our staff and students.
Learn how we’re supporting our people during the cost of living crisis.
Follow our statements on this evolving situation.
Find out about our guidance on Covid-19.
Read about our research and actions after the UK left the EU.
Look back at how we commemorated the life of Queen Elizabeth II.
View how the University spends the money it gets from students at Sussex.
View our statements on a freedom of speech investigation by the Office for Students.
Get up-to-date with the latest news from Sussex and find out how to get in touch with world-leading academics.
Explore the Media Centre .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/facts/rankings/development-studies:
First in the world for Development Studies for the ninth consecutive year.
In partnership with the Institute of Development of Studies (IDS) we have been named best in the world for Development Studies in the ( QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 ) for the ninth year in a row.
This ranking reflects our international reputation for excellence as well as the strength of teaching and research relationships between Sussex, IDS, our staff, students, alumni and partners globally.
It has been achieved through the work of IDS and our Schools of Global Studies , Education and Social Work , Media, Arts and Humanities , and the University of Sussex Business School .
Over the last 60 years, our thinking and research in development studies has challenged prevailing assumptions about geopolitics and north-south relations, while continuing to engage, advise and ask difficult questions.
Whose voices are being heard?
What does this tell us about power and inequality?
How can justice be fostered locally, nationally and globally?
This reputation is at the root of our continued number one ranking.
We are witnessing a shift in global power centres and increasing threats to democratic spaces, citizen voice and rights.
Conflict, security, global health, climate and environmental changes are taking new forms, and discussions on issues of race, gender, and decolonization are becoming increasingly mainstream.
The Covid-19 pandemic significantly impacted the world, with long-lasting social, economic and political consequences.
To respond to these changing contexts, Sussex and IDS have introduced courses in areas such as:
These are alongside our existing undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Our research continues to focus on globally significant areas, including those that are new and emerging.
We are helping to shape debates on issues such as:
Teaching and research at Sussex and IDS are closely integrated.
Active researchers lead lectures, classes, and seminars.
They bring theory and evidence to their teaching, as well as firsthand experience – asking questions and presenting dilemmas in meaningful ways.
Our international partnerships are at the core of all that we do.
Our research is geared towards making a difference.
We engage with:
We’re seeking to enable positive change, whilst challenging the power relations that often work against this.
We also know that global development is as much about issues of inequality and social justice in the Global North, including the UK, as it is anywhere else.
Our staff and research students collaborate with national and international policymakers, practitioners and industry to carry out research that makes a difference.
We’re always searching for innovative and transformative solutions to emerging global issues across disciplinary boundaries.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/people:
Items 1 to 20 of 139
29 May 2025
Professor Fasli is currently Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Essex
15 May 2025
Jim will join the University of Sussex on 15 September 2025
8 May 2025
On Tuesday 6 May we held the first-ever Sussex Awards ceremony on campus at the Attenborough Centre
24 April 2025
Jane Harvell, University Librarian and Director of the Library, Culture and Heritage Division has been appointed as the new Chair of RLUK
1 April 2025
Professor Dunne is on the list of 64 outstanding social scientists joining the Fellowship this spring.
10 February 2025
The University has appointed Matt Kitson and he will start his new role on Monday 10 March.
3 February 2025
Professor Liz Dávid-Barrett, Director of the Centre for the Study of Corruption, has won the 2024 Ideas Prize for non-fiction.
23 January 2025
Professor Andy Clark, Professor of Cognitive Philosophy in the Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities and the School of Engineering and Informatics,...
L Alan Winters CB, Emeritus Professor of Economics at the University of Sussex, will be conferred Honorary Doctor of Laws at Winter Graduation.
6 January 2025
Michael Attenborough was in conversation with Vice-Chancellor Professor Sasha Roseneil in December about his life and Sussex.
12 December 2024
Professor Mahmood Bhutta, Chair in ENT at BSMS, has been awarded the 2024 President’s Medal by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow
20 November 2024
University of Sussex Professor Gilly Forrester has taken part in a special ‘Select Committee’ with the Sir David Amess UK Children’s Parliament.
19 November 2024
The Clarivate Plc analytics company today (19 November) revealed its 2024 list of Highly Cited Researchers
Professor Claire Smith, Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education and Innovation) has been appointed Inspector of Anatomy, Ireland
4 November 2024
University of Sussex alumna, Kemi Badenoch, has been elected as the new Leader of the Conservative Party
16 October 2024
An award-winning documentary investigating the crash which killed T.E.Lawrence has benefitted from the expertise of Sussex lecturer Dr Feras Alkabani.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/research:
Items 1 to 20 of 209
11 June 2025
Sussex researchers’ world record discovery detects tiny electric fields 100-times more effectively – with potential to revolutionise brain scanning
23 May 2025
Researchers have discovered that switching off a protein named LMTK3 in cancer cells with drugs could delay or prevent spread
22 May 2025
The research project will examine how universities can improve the way experiential and interactive skills are taught
20 May 2025
Plastic pollution found to be widespread in UK invertebrates in first land-based study of its kind
A study has revealed for the first time that bumblebees can taste protein and pick flowers based on a variety of factors, not just the sweetness.
14 April 2025
A study from scientists at Sussex and the University of Lincoln shows that dogs may be able to understand human speech better than previously thought.
3 March 2025
£42m is being invested in game-changing research hubs, including one at BSMS, designed to accelerate the UK's journey to net zero.
13 February 2025
The exhibition illustrates the ways that SSRP research is protecting our beautiful South Coast home and imagining sustainable futures for the region.
6 February 2025
The Governance & Integrity Anti-Corruption Evidence (GI ACE) programme has completed its first year at the University of Sussex's Centre...
A study published in The British Journal of Psychiatry has revealed new insights into the connection between joint hypermobility and anxiety disorders
27 January 2025
A new study by Sussex researchers has revealed the devastating impact that increased fertiliser use has on agricultural grasslands.
Sussex research finds harmful chemicals from flea treatments in fur lined nests of blue and great tits
15 January 2025
Brighton Bound, a new book co-authored by Sussex academics and the local community sheds light on the joys and struggles of Brightonians
14 January 2025
The University of Sussex Business School retains the number one ranking in the UK for Business and Management research income.
11 December 2024
Researchers have today launched a new open access resource which looks at how global rules have changed to tackle illicit financial flows
28 November 2024
Spin-out company Metasonixx has won the Business Start-Up Award in the 2024 Institute of Physics Business Awards.
A new research centre focused on sustaining digital Holocaust memory was launched this week at a special event at the Imperial War Museum, London.
15 November 2024
An international team has discovered three ultra-massive galaxies, known as “Red Monsters”, in the early Universe forming at unexpected speeds.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/full-news-list/research-at-sussex-newsletter:
Research at Sussex newsletter is a fortnightly round up that will keep you up to date with groundbreaking research and innovation from the University of Sussex.
From exploring distant planets to protecting our own, Sussex researchers are pioneering breakthroughs that matter.
Receive the latest news and insights straight to your inbox, sign-up below.
Any personal data provided will be processed in accordance with the University’s Privacy notice (link opens in new tab).
By selecting “Submit” you consent to your personal data being processed.
By subscribing, you agree to receive the Research at Sussex newsletter and occasional feedback requests.
You will have the opportunity to manage your preference or unsubscribe any time later.
Every edition of Research at Sussex is right here – ready for you to explore, revisit and rediscover.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/languages:
Find out about Modern Languages and English language teaching at Sussex, based within the Department of Language Studies, part of the School of Media, Arts and Humanities, and search for people who work there.
Our courses are taught by academics working in the Department of Language Studies.
We offer a wide range of courses and modules throughout the calendar year in English Language Teaching and Modern Foreign Languages.
International students can take a range of English language courses to prepare them for their studies.
We recognise that students from disciplines across the University will, as future global citizens, travel, live and work in countries across the world – that's why we've developed a flexible portfolio of language electives which students can take as part of their degree.
Students can also study autonomously in our Resource Centre , which has a digital language suite and multimedia workstations for the private study of more than 50 world languages.
We believe that learning to speak a second or third language provides a window into another culture, and that cultural awareness and intercultural communication are essential for the promotion of peace, co-operation and understanding in the world today.
In addition, the study of a language gives meaningful access to the media, films and literature in that language, opening up limitless paths of discovery.
Discover short language courses open to everyone aged 18 and over, with a range of lunchtime and evening sessions on offer.
Study a language alongside your single-honours degree for up to three years.
Undergraduate students on a wide range of single-honours degrees can take modules in teaching English to speakers of other languages (TESOL).
Explore language and linguistics while preparing for the Trinity CertTESOL teaching qualification.
Teach English to speakers of other languages through our MA.
Gain knowledge about the social functions and contexts of language use.
You can also develop your communication skills in practical ways and explore languages more broadly, on modules including:
Explore all our electives .
English language courses
These courses are for international students looking to improve their English language skills before studying a degree.
These courses are for any adult student aged 18 years or over, whose English language level is intermediate (CEFR B1).
This is for any adult student aged 18 years or over who is not a beginner and wants to spend part of their holiday improving their English.
Check out our free workshops, drop-in sessions and one-to-one tutorials throughout the academic year, for Sussex students whose first language is not English.
We can develop specialist language courses specific to your institutional or company needs.
Find academics working within Modern languages and English language teaching.
Discover more about studying and life as a Languages and Linguistics student.
Learn about our open-access learning resources centre for self-study.
other Media, Arts and Humanities departments .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/international-students/international-student-support:
See the help available during your studies.
We came 1st for International (in South East England) at this year’s What Uni Student Choice Awards 2025 .
The International category is rated by international students, and focuses on how welcome and supported our international students feel.
The award reflects the range of international activities on campus and our commitment to making our global community feel at home at Sussex.
We want you to get the most out of your studies and student life.
That’s why we help to prepare you for Sussex, welcome you when you arrive and support you during your time here.
This includes:
See our tips from international students for settling into Sussex life .
We can offer immigration and visa advice before you arrive and during your time in the UK.
Our Immigration Advisers can answer your immigration questions and guide you through the visa application process.
Find out everything you need to know about the support they offer and applying for a visa on the Student Hub.
If you want to rent privately, our Housing Team offer free advice and can help you look for student houses and rooms.
If you're going to rent from a private landlord, they can check through your tenancy agreement so you know what you are signing up for.
You can also ask them about living in Brighton & Hove , including recycling and rubbish collection, how to avoid anti-social behaviour and how to find accessible housing.
The Student Centre is the first place to go if you need support during your time at University.
They can help with any worries or concerns you may have, such as settling in or challenges in your personal life.
Assistance and support is available for those with disabilities or learning difficulty, such as dyslexia or dyspraxia.
The English language and academic study team help students improve their academic English and and their understanding of British academic culture.
They offer free workshops , ' time to write ' sessions and one-to-one tutorials throughout the academic year to students whose first language is not English
You can get recognised for taking part career-readiness activities through our Spirit of Sussex Award .
The award celebrates engagement with extra-curricular activities and voluntary achievements.
By taking part in different activities, such as volunteering for our Buddy Scheme , becoming a Student Rep , or participating in business challenges such as Startup Sussex , you can gain points towards either a Bronze , Silver , or Gold Spirit of Sussex Award.
Find out more about the award and how to enrich your university experience.
Attending events hosted by a Students' Union society contributes points towards your Spirit of Sussex Award.
The Careers and Employability Centre can help you find part-time jobs and work experience opportunities.
They also manage CareerHub, a database of part-time jobs in the local area, and host various careers events and fairs throughout the year.
You can book a one-to-one appointment with a Careers Consultant to discuss your CV, career plans and more.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/who/schools-and-departments:
Our four Faculties are the academic heart of the University, taking an interdisciplinary approach to study and driving forward development in research and teaching.
Each faculty contains a mix of Schools, departments and subject areas.
The Faculty of Science, Engineering and Medicine comprises five schools:
The Faculty of Social Sciences comprises three schools:
The University of Sussex Business School is a faculty including Accounting and Finance, Strategy and Marketing, Economics and Management.
The Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities (MAH) comprises subjects spanning philosophy, history, media, film, music and drama.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) assesses the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
Read our full REF 2021 results, learn the basics and discover our stories.
View all the results of our submissions for REF 2021.
Understand why the Research Excellence Framework is important.
Discover the stories behind our REF 2021 submissions.
Read the official Sussex announcements relating to REF 2021, including:
Check all University research news .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/news/article/59995-sussex-scientists-make-breakthrough-in-developing-quantum-computers-that-can-solve-big-challenges-of-our-time:
By: Alice Ingall Last updated: Wednesday, 8 February 2023
Professor Winfried Hensinger and Dr Sebastian Weidt behind a prototype of a quantum computer in the University of Sussex quantum lab
Dr Mariam Akhtar, who worked on the breakthrough whilst at Sussex, at the control panel of a quantum computer at the University of Sussex
Researchers from the University of Sussex and Universal Quantum have demonstrated for the first time that quantum bits (qubits) can directly transfer between quantum computer microchips and demonstrated this with record-breaking speed and accuracy.
This breakthrough resolves a major challenge in building quantum computers large and powerful enough to tackle complex problems that are of critical importance to society.
Today, quantum computers operate on the 100-qubit scale.
Experts anticipate millions of qubits are required to solve important problems that are out of reach of today’s most powerful supercomputers [1, 2].
There is a global quantum race to develop quantum computers that can help in many important societal challenges from drug discovery to making fertilizer production more energy efficient and solving important problems in nearly every industry, ranging from aeronautics to the financial sector.
In the research paper, published today (Wednesday 8 February 2023) in Nature Communications , the scientists demonstrate how they have used a new and powerful technique, which they dub ‘UQ Connect’, to use electric field links to enable qubits to move from one quantum computing microchip module to another with unprecedented speed and precision.
This allows chips to slot together like a jigsaw puzzle to make a more powerful quantum computer.
The University of Sussex and Universal Quantum team were successful in transporting the qubits with a 99.999993% success rate and a connection rate of 2424/s, both numbers are world records and orders of magnitude better than previous solutions.
Professor Winfried Hensinger, Professor of Quantum Technologies at the University of Sussex and Chief Scientist and Co-founder at Universal Quantum said: “As quantum computers grow, we will eventually be constrained by the size of the microchip, which limits the number of quantum bits such a chip can accommodate.
As such, we knew a modular approach was key to make quantum computers powerful enough to solve step-changing industry problems.
In demonstrating that we can connect two quantum computing chips – a bit like a jigsaw puzzle – and, crucially, that it works so well, we unlock the potential to scale-up by connecting hundreds or even thousands of quantum computing microchips.”
While linking the modules at world-record speed, the scientists also verified that the ‘strange’ quantum nature of the qubit remains untouched during transport, for example, that the qubit can be both 0 and 1 at the same time.
Dr Sebastian Weidt, CEO and Co-founder of Universal Quantum, and Senior Lecturer in Quantum Technologies at the University of Sussex said: “Our relentless focus is on providing people with a tool that will enable them to revolutionise their field of work.
The Universal Quantum and University of Sussex teams have done something truly incredible here that will help make our vision a reality.
These exciting results show the remarkable potential of Universal Quantum’s quantum computers to become powerful enough to unlock the many lifechanging applications of quantum computing.”
Universal Quantum has just been awarded €67 million from the German Aerospace Center (DLR) to build two quantum computers where they will deploy this technology as part of the contract.
The University of Sussex spin-out was also recently named as one of the 2022 Institute of Physics award winners in the Business Start-up category.
Weidt added: “The DLR contract was likely one of the largest government quantum computing contracts ever handed out to a single company.
This is a huge validation of our technology.
Universal Quantum is now working hard to deploy this technology in our upcoming commercial machines.”
Dr Mariam Akhtar led the research during her time as Research Fellow at the University of Sussex and Quantum Advisor at Universal Quantum.
She said: “The team has demonstrated fast and coherent ion transfer using quantum matter links.
This experiment validates the unique architecture that Universal Quantum has been developing – providing an exciting route towards truly large-scale quantum computing.”
Professor Sasha Roseneil, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Sussex, said: “It’s fantastic to see that the inspired work of the University of Sussex and Universal Quantum physicists has resulted in this phenomenal breakthrough, taking us a significant step closer to a quantum computer that will be of real societal use.
These computers are set to have boundless applications – from improving the development of medicines, creating new materials, to maybe even unlocking solutions to the climate crisis.
The University of Sussex is investing significantly in quantum computing to support our bold ambition to host the world’s most powerful quantum computers and create change that has the potential to positively impact so many people across the world.
And with teams spanning the spectrum of quantum computing and technology research, the University of Sussex has both a breadth and a depth of expertise in this.
We are still growing our research and teaching in this area, with plans for new teaching programmes, and new appointments.”
Professor Keith Jones, Interim Provost and Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and Enterprise at the University of Sussex, said of the development : “This is a very exciting finding from our University of Sussex physicists and Universal Quantum.
It proves the value and dynamism of this University of Sussex spin-out company, whose work is grounded in rigorous and world-leading academic research.
Quantum computers will be pivotal in helping to solve some of the most pressing global issues.
We're delighted that Sussex academics are delivering research that offers hope in realising the positive potential of next-generation quantum technology in crucial areas such as sustainability, drug development, and cybersecurity.”
The article titled ‘A high-fidelity quantum matter-link between ion-trap microchip modules’ is published in Nature Communications and can be accessed here from 10:00 GMT Wednesday 8 February 2023.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/explore-our-research/life-sciences/impact-of-pesticides-on-bees-dave-goulson:
Given that Dave Goulson, Professor of Biology at the University of Sussex, and his research group only began looking at the effects of pesticides in bumblebees in 2010, it’s amazing to see what they have accomplished in only 9 years.
Goulson had set up a charity called the Bumblebee Conservation Trust in 2006, followed later by the citizen science Buzz Club after he came to the conclusion that publishing research in academic journals “was a bit pointless”.
“The only people reading my research were a handful of academics who weren’t able to do anything practical to help bees any more than I was.” The Bumblebee Conservation Trust now has more than 40 staff and 10,000 members.
Dave Goulson meeting with citizen scientists part of the Buzz Club.
In 2010, members of the Trust began to suggest that there may be a link between bumblebee declines and pesticide use.
Bumblebees feed on and pollinate wildflowers and help produce much of the food we eat, including crops such as tomatoes, runner beans, raspberries, apples and strawberries.
“Our members were adamant that we needed to address the pesticide issue because they thought they were poisoning bees,” Goulson said.
“I have to admit I was sceptical to start with.
I wasn’t convinced that we’d find very much.” Despite his reservations, he decided to follow the line of enquiry suggested by the Trust’s members.
In 2012 they exposed 75 bumblebee nests to neonicotinoids, neurotoxic insecticides used to control pests, and found that the pesticides had a devastating impact on the queen bees.
The research revealed that colonies of bumble bees, Bombus terrestris , exposed to levels of neonicotinoids similar to those found in fields of insecticide-treated crops suffered from an 85% reduction in the production of new queen bees compared to control colonies.
Queen bees are necessary for the establishment of new bee colonies the following year – so an 85% reduction should have set alarm bells ringing.
A buff-tailed bumblebee (Bombus terrestris), one of seven species of bumblebee which are widespread across most of Britain.
Credit: Creative Commons, Steven Falk .
It got a lot of media coverage and launched Goulson’s research into the impact of pesticides on bees.
“Before I knew it, I was embroiled in this very political debate about pesticides.” The research provided important evidence to the European Food Standards agency, which was commissioned by the European Parliament to review the impacts of the chemicals.
The review directly led to a 2013 European Union moratorium preventing the use of the three pesticides – clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoam – on flowering crops such as oil seed rape and sunflowersthat appeal to bees and other pollinating insects.
The UK was among the nations opposing the ban at the time.
Last year the EU expanded the pesticide restriction to all field crops , although they can still be used in sealed greenhouses.
While these are significant and important steps in the right direction, neonicotinoids are still the most widely used insecticides in the world.
Goulson is working to change that.
He has given talks related to bees and pesticides in the Paris Senate, to the government of Ontario, a province in Canada, and the US Congress.
While the current US administration has overturned a ban on the pesticides brought in under Barack Obama, the province of Ontario passed new regulations in 2015 to reduce the use of the insecticides by 80%.
Goulson wrote an open letter in 2018 calling for national and international agreements to “greatly restrict” the use of neonics, which has been signed by more than 232 scientists.
Dramatic plunges in insect numbers highlighted in recent research Goulson co-authored highlights the urgency of the problem: the number of flying insects has fallen by three-quarters in 27 years.
Concerningly, the flying insects were captured in nature reserves across Germany; declines are likely to be higher in urban or heavily farmed areas.
“It’s terrifying,” said Goulson commenting on the research.
“Insects are at the heart of everything.
They pollinate most of the crops we grow – they pollinate more than 80% of wildflowers.
They help recycle nutrients.
They are predators of pests.
If we lose insects, life on earth will collapse.”
The research was widely covered in the media and was cited by the UK’s former environment secretary, Michael Gove, as key to his rationale for supporting an EU ban on the use of neonicotinoids, reversing the UK governments’ previous position on the insecticides.
“When the science shows that our environment is in increasing danger we have to act”, he wrote in The Guardian , directly referencing the German study.
Gove has said that the UK government will keep those restrictions in place after leaving the EU.
Even wildflowers on field verges are often contaminated by pesticides
Poor diet compromises health & immunity & fighting illness uses up energy
Fungicides can increase the toxicity of other insecticides
Pesticide exposure may reduce tolerance to disease
Goulson D, Nicholls E, Botías C, Rotheray E.
Bee declines driven by combined stress from parasites, pesticides, and lack of flowers.
Science .
2015 Mar 27; 347(6229):1255957.
In response to criticisms on the effect of neonicotinoids on pollinators, pesticide producers and farmers often say that bee and flying insect’s exposure to pesticides is reduced by foraging on wildflowers growing on the margins of fields, which haven’t been sprayed with pesticides.
However, further research by Goulson and his group in the School of Life Sciences has demonstrated that neonicotinoids applied to autumn-sown crops were contaminating the pollen and nectar of nearby wildflowers throughout the following spring and summer, sometimes at concentrations even higher than found in the crops themselves.
Having proven the clear links between the crops and nearby contamination of wildflowers, Goulson and his team next set their sights on garden flowers, which can provide important nectar and pollen to urban pollinators.
They wondered whether well-meaning gardeners were doing more harm than good by buying ornamental plants from garden centres.
“They’re reared in almost an industrial system in giant glasshouses,” Goulson said.
To test out their hunch, they screened the leaves, pollen and nectar of flowering plants bought from major retailers in UK, such as Wyevale, Aldi, B&Q and Homebase labelled ‘bee friendly’ or ‘perfect for pollinators’ to identify plants rich in nectar to see if they were as perfect as they claimed.
Most of the plants were in fact stuffed full of insecticides and fungicides toxic to bees.
22 out of the 29 plants tested contained one insecticide and 38% had two or more insecticides.
70% contained neonicotinoid pesticides, neurotoxic insecticides used to control pests, which the European Food Safety Authority has found to pose a high ‘risk’ to wild bees and honeybees.
In short, plants labelled bee friendly contained harmful chemicals which could, in fact, be killing them.
A Common Carder bumblebee (bombus pascuorum) visiting lavender.
Credit: Dave Goulson
“’Perfect for Pollinators’ is the Royal Horticultural Society’s label and if you are going to label them then you should take care that it is actually perfect for pollinators and not full of insecticides,” said Goulson.
“I think the retailers are guilty of being a bit lazy.
They were happy to take the cash from selling the plants without being responsible about how they got hold of them.”
In response to the findings, a 2017 Horticultural Trade Association statement said neonicotinoids were only found at “low levels” on the plants.
But pollen samples collected from 18 of the different plants tested contained a total of 13 different pesticides at concentrations (between 6.9 and 81 ng/g) known to cause harm to bees by impairing bee navigation and learning, reducing egg laying, lowering sperm viability, and suppressing the immune system.
Friends of the Earth used the ornamental plant research as the basis for their campaign pressuring the garden retailers into promising to sell plants reared without neonicotinoids.
According to a YouGov poll 78% of the British public agreed that garden centres shouldn’t be selling plants grown with pesticides harmful to bees.
The garden centres clearly took notice.
By November 2017 the top 10 garden centres in the UK (including Wyevale, Hilliers, B&Q and Notcutts) had announced they would stop using neonicotinoids on garden plants in the next year, and some have already stopped using them.
Despite this success, Goulson warns against overlooking the risks posed by other insecticides to pollinators.
“It’s nice to feel that we have achieved something, but the attention has become very focussed on neonics.
If they are just replaced by something else and the new chemicals are just as bad then we’ve achieved absolutely nothing.” Goulson plans to repeat the research on ornamental plants in a few years to find out what chemicals garden retailers are replacing them with.
“There are lots of other insecticides licensed for use on ornamental flowers and new ones coming to market all the time which look suspiciously like neonicotinoids.
It’s a bit depressing to be honest.
I sometimes wonder if we’re making any progress.”
Despite the challenges, Goulson remains determined to continue his work to highlight the serious risks facing bumblebees.
He’s written a series of highly readable popular science books packed full of amusing anecdotes to reach wider audiences.
A Sting in the Tale , has sold over 250, 000 copies and been translated into 14 languages.
His fourth book, The Garden Jungle , which explores how to foster wildlife in your garden, reached no.10 on the Sunday Times bestseller list just days after it was published and has been highly praised in The Guardian and The Times reviews.
His team is currently working with citizen scientists who are collecting data on pollinators and pesticide use in allotments and gardens in Brighton, UK and Kolkata, India in order to test and challenge government policy.
“I think it’s my job.
It’s my duty to hold governments to account and to keep badgering them until they do something.
Scientists should be prepared to stand up when they think government has made the wrong decision, and say so.
If we don’t do it, who will?”
Author: Suzanne Fisher-Murray, University of Sussex Date published: 6 August 2019
Welcome to Impacted , our new podcast series about research for real change.
Listen to Dave Goulson talk about his research into the impact of pesticides on bumblebees.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/research/about/research-and-enterprise:
Research and Innovation services at the University of Sussex provides researchers with expertise and support throughout the research life cycle and throughout their whole career.
We help researchers to secure research funding and to have impact outside of academia through public engagement, partnerships and regional and business engagement activities.
The division has a number of teams, including the Sussex Research School, the Research Development team, the Research Finance office, the Research Information, Quality and Impact team and the Research Governance office, which helps support researchers to uphold the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all of our research activities.
The Research, Quality and Impact team helps researchers achieve real impact in the wider world through capacity and skills building and by planning for and supporting impact from ongoing research and through building external partnerships.
It helps researchers produce high quality research outputs and provides support on research strategy and policies.
It is also responsible for managing the Research Excellence Framework, the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
Research Impact enquiries: rqi@sussex.ac.uk
Follow the team on X: @SussexUniRQI
The Research Development team helps researchers at the University identify funding opportunities, supports the development of strong proposals, manages contractual arrangements and carries out financial administration.
The team is also responsible for supporting the University’s consultancy services.
We help researchers throughout their whole career.
The Sussex Researcher school and undergraduate research programme supports undergraduate researchers, postgraduate research students and postdoctoral researchers.
The Sussex Researcher School provides professional research development and skills training to over 1,300 doctoral researchers.
It provides PhD students with the skills training and professional development support they need to successfully complete their PhD and prepare for their future careers.
They provide a year-round programme of workshops on topics such as library and academic skills, the doctoral process, communications and the latest technology for research.
Research and Innovation also provides support to undergraduate students through a programme that helps high achieving undergraduate students work with our top research faculty during the summer vacation.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-research:
Examine star formation in the distant universe.
Unlock the secrets of the human mind.
Create technologies that will help save lives in the world's poorest countries.
Whatever you want to do, getting involved in our research means you can help change people's lives for the better.
Choose a degree with a summer research placement
Find out about our research scheme for undergraduate students
See the type of research placements you might be able to take part in during the summer
Student research news
Undergraduate student wins national car industry award for designing a new battery that could revolutionise electric vehicles.
...
Sussex Undergraduate Research Office

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/doctoral/postdoctoral-research:
Search for postdoctoral research positions at Sussex, and see the help and support you'll receive once you're here.
You'll work in a University recognised for its excellence in supporting researchers (May 2013).
You'll also have access to our research centres and groups , and depending on your research area, may get to work with our partners .
You'll also benefit from our specialist facilities .
If you choose to continue with your research at Sussex, or apply for a postdoctoral research position here, we'll help you with:
Sussex is also home to specialist research resources and facilities, including the:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/looking-back:
Take a step back in time and see images of Sussex through the years.
Memories of Sussex graduations through the years
Browse photos taken over the years by alumni and staff
Memories of live music on campus
Sporting events at Sussex over the years
A brief folk history of the East Slope accommodation
Relationships sparked during time at Sussex
A look back at events and memories from Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts
Alumni and staff reflect on the Library over the years
The next generation of university students spend time looking at campuses online.
See how our campus looks today , through the eyes of a prospective student.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/alumni/news-events/news:
Items 1 to 10 of 483
Rhiannon Williams is one of five finalists named today for the award of Newly Qualified Adult Social Worker of the Year 2025.
Last week we celebrated an extraordinary milestone: the retirement of Professor Hirschfeld, almost certainly one of the UK’s longest-serving lecturers

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/ssro/transcripts/officialtranscripts:
Skip to main content Sussex homepage Staff
Find out about your transcript and getting replacement certificates.
An official transcript is a formal record of the modules studied during your degree.
A transcript can sometimes be referred to as a European Diploma Supplement.
These are the same documents.
A certificate is the official recognition of your award outlining your qualification.
If you're attending your graduation ceremony, you'll receive your certificate and final transcript on the day.
If you choose not to attend the ceremony, you must inform us of your intentions through the graduation tab on Sussex Direct where you can select to collect your certificate and transcript or have them sent to you, after the ceremonies have taken place.
You must provide an up to date address so we can send your documents.
We use Royal Mail recorded delivery for UK addresses, and UPS for international addresses.
If you have been awarded an interim degree and will be undertaking further assessments in the A3 assessment period, you will be contacted after the results are published regarding your final certificate and transcript being issued to you.
Masters students have the opportunity to receive their degree certificates and transcripts during November, following on from final results publication in October.
You will be contacted following results.
Request an interim transcript as a continuing student .
We cannot issue a final transcript until your degree has been awarded.
If you’re a BSMS student, contact the University of Brighton’s alumni services .
For undergraduate courses which ended before 2008, we can only provide you with an official letter confirming your name, date of birth, dates of study and overall award gained.
For postgraduate courses which ended before 2015, we can only provide you with an official letter confirming your name, date of birth, dates of study and overall award gained.
Both official undergraduate and postgraduate letters are signed and stamped, and are provided as a PDF at a cost of £5.
You can request transcripts separately if you:
Request a transcript as a former Sussex student .
We aim to process transcripts within 10 working days.
It can take longer at busy times or for older records.
Transcripts are usually sent as a digital pdf document.
If you request a physical copy of your transcript, this will be sent by Royal Mail 1st Class or standard Airmail and can be sent in signed and sealed envelopes if you request this.
Airmail can take up to 21 days to arrive.
You can request your documents to be sent by courier to one address, but there is an extra £45 charge for doing so.
The charges for documents and postage are:
1 Transcript / European Diploma Supplement
£20
2 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£22
3 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£24
4 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£26
5 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£28
6 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£30
7 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£32
8 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£34
10 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£35
15 Transcripts / European Diploma Supplements
£40
We will send you a link to pay through the Sussex online shop.
Important: You must provide a delivery address where you will be able to sign for the documents in-person.
If you have your degree certificate, we can provide a certified copy of the original for free.
Email a scanned copy of your original certificate to student.archives@sussex.ac.uk .
If your award certificate has been lost or damaged, you can apply for a replacement certificate.
Important: The certificate which the University issues as proof of the conferment of an award is an important document which should be carefully preserved.
The University will not issue additional copies or duplicates to any applicant holding an undamaged original certificate.
Duplicates, while having precisely the same standing as the originals which they replace, are produced in the format currently in use and may not be a facsimile of the original.
The loss or destruction of a certificate is a serious matter and a duplicate will only be issued at the discretion of the University.
The University reserves the right not to issue a duplicate, nor to specify reasons for its decision.
As part of the application process, you must submit:
To a UK address
A Replacement Certificate ONLY by Royal Mail, signed for
A Replacement Certificate AND a Transcript by Royal Mail, signed for
£50
To a Non-UK address
A Replacement Certificate ONLY to a non-UK address by courier
£75
A Replacement Certificate AND a transcript to a non-UK address by courier
£90
Apply for a replacement certificate .
If you’re a student, or former student, at a partner institution, and you want a transcript of your course modules, contact your partner institution directly.
View contact details for all Sussex partner institutions .
You can also apply for a replacement partnership institution certificate if you studied with one of our partners.
You are subject to the certificate rules and costs above .
If you have questions about other forms or documents relating to your institution, contact the Sussex Partnerships office .
If you need other documents to prove your status as a student, find out:
Download our app Sussex social media

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/careers/index:
Discover the jobs, internships and volunteering opportunities available to you.
We offer dedicated careers support and advice so you can build your future.
Part-time and summer jobs on and off campus.
How to make effective job applications.
Explore Career Lab, placements, internships or volunteering.
Graduate schemes, jobs, and internships.
Career benefits for going on to study a Masters or PhD.
Start a business, go freelance or create a social enterprise.
Sharpen your skills at a careers workshop, or go to a careers fair.
How to apply for jobs and find additional support.
How to apply for jobs and find visa information.
See tips for where to begin in your career planning .
Log in to search for jobs, events, and book careers appointments.
GO TO CAREERHUB
Develop the skills and experience for your future career by joining Career Lab – our programme for undergraduate students.
Research sector-specific career information for common areas of employment, including sector overviews, role descriptions, how to gain experience, graduate entry routes and sector-relevant vacancy sites.
Graduates : find out how we can support you, and get in touch .
Follow us on Instagram .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate:
Explore our campus to see if Sussex is the place for you.
Find out about our range of online and virtual events.
Find out about our guided campus tours.
Get a taste of life at Sussex on a time and day that suits you.
Explore campus at your own pace with our self-guided tour app.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate/open-days/travel-help:
Find all the information you need to claim your travel costs back when you attend one of our Open Days.
Here at Sussex we’re proud of our warm and welcoming community, and we want to help you to attend an Open Day, learn about our courses and experience our campus.
We’re offering to help with the cost of travel for eligile students (plus one guest) who meet at least one of the following criteria:
Certain postcodes in the UK are used as measures to indicate that a person is less likely to apply and attend university.
Use the suggested websites below to check if you fall under one of these postcodes:
This dataset shows the IMD rank for your home postcode.
It places postcodes into 10 rankings (or deciles).
Find the decile for where you live .
Postcodes that are classed as D1 or D2 (or 1st decile or 2nd decile) in the ‘Index of Multiple Deprivation Decile’ column (F), entitle you to claim Open Day travel costs.
This dataset shows the POLAR4 value for your home postcode.
It places postcodes into 5 groups (or quintiles).
Find the quintile for where you live .
Postcodes that are classed as Q1 (or Quintile 1) entitle you to claim Open Day travel costs.
Young people in the UK are usually eligible for free school meals if their parents or carers are on a low income or in receipt of certain benefits.
If you are not sure, ask your school – they will be able to confirm this for you.
You may also be eligible if you are paid qualifying benefits directly, instead of through your parent or carer.
A young person who has spent any time in local authority care, such as foster care or residential children’s homes.
It also includes young people who are in, or have been in, kinship care.
An estranged student is a young person studying without the support and approval of a family network.
Young people in this position often have no contact at all with their family and have removed themselves from a dysfunctional situation.
If you meet any of the above you could claim between £25 and £75, depending on where you live.
See our full terms and conditions below.
Not booked an Open Day place yet?
Check out the dates and book your place .
The following terms and conditions should be adhered to in order to claim your travel costs payment:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/sustainable-university/get-involved/plant-a-tree:
We’re proud to have planted 2,470 trees as a thank you to visitors who travelled to our 2023 and 2024 Open Days by public transport.
We're now pledging to plant more if you travel by bus or train to our Open Days in 2025.
As part of our vision to be one of the most sustainable universities in the world, we have pledged to plant a tree for every prospective student that travels to one of our Open Days by public transport.
Despite the train strikes, 1,171 people travelled to campus by public transport in June and October 2023.
Across 2024, another 1,299 people travelled to our Open Days by public transport.
The 2,470 trees were planted in surrounding Sussex target areas to increase biodiversity and Sussex water quality.
This also means over 31 tonnes of CO2 emissions were avoided by those who travelled to our campus by public transport (estimated calculations made using The World Land Trust’s emission calculator ).
This is the equivalent to one person flying more than three and a half trips around the world via plane.
With many visitors expected at our on-campus events this year, we’re encouraging you to lay down roots for change by choosing 'Your Root to Sussex', supporting our sustainability vision and becoming part of the growth to a better future.
You can do this by travelling by bus or train, to reduce carbon emissions and think about your environmental impact/footprint.
For 2025, we will continue to work with the South Downs National Park Trust to help reach their target of planting 100,000 trees as part of their Trees for the Downs campaign .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/undergraduate-open-days/mature-students:
If you're over 21 and thinking about applying to Sussex or are interested in university, join us for events and support specifically for mature students.
Take a look at our in-person events available to attend on campus.
Our Open Days give you a taste of life at Sussex.
Learn more about our courses, chat to current students, attend talks led by mature students and tour campus with our ambassadors.
Book an Open Day .
Visit the Transition to Sussex page to find out about the events and support on offer for 2025 Sussex offer holders.
As part of this, on Wednesday 25 June 2025 the Widening Participation team will be a running an event for contextual and mature offer holders.
The day is designed to equip you with the necessary skills to thrive at university.
Book your place now.
During our information sessions, you will:
These session typically last two hours and refreshments are provided.
Our last mature information session was delivered in May and our new programme of events will launch in September.
If you'd like more information on applying to Sussex as a mature student, email inspires@sussex.ac.uk .
If you'd like to visit campus but cannot attend either of these events, take a look at our campus tour dates or email inspires@sussex.ac.uk .
Take a look at our virtual events.
Learn more about returning to education as a mature student through our informal information sessions.
Our new series of webinars will launch this September.
If you have any questions before then, email inspires@sussex.ac.uk
Book a 1:1 appointment with a member of our Widening Participation team to get support and advice on your personal statement.
We're offering 20 minute 1:1’s to mature students looking to apply to Sussex.
During your appointment you can ask questions and get guidance on the structure and content of your personal statement.
You'll also need to bring a draft written copy of your personal statement to this session.
Book an appointment .
Find out how to apply for undergraduate courses as a mature student , including what types of qualifications we accept along with experience.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/campus/map:
Find out how to view a map of the University of Sussex campus and navigate your way around.
You can download our campus map to see the location of all campus buildings.
The map will evolve to reflect changes to the campus.
Email publications@sussex.ac.uk if you have any comments about the current map.
Check the website AccessAble to find out how to access our buildings if, for instance, you are using a wheelchair or walking aid.
You can download a detailed map of the East Slope residences [PDF 211KB] , comprising four neighbourhoods:
View all on-campus accommodation to see outline maps of other residences.
There are map plinths situated around campus (pictured), which you can use to find buildings while you're on the move or in a hurry.
They can be found near the Library, Bramber House and other main areas around campus.
You can pick up a printed map at most reception desks on campus, including Sussex House.
The printed map is a better option for wheelchair users on campus as the map plinths are at standing height.
All versions of the map indicate step-free routes, steep paths and lifts within buildings.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/postgraduate:
Meet us in person or online to find out what it's like to study a Masters or PhD at Sussex.
We run a variety of sessions every month, from online 60-minute information sessions to larger Postgraduate visits and academic talks.
You can also attend PGCE events to learn about teacher training at Sussex.
Discover Sussex in person at one of our Masters and PhD Open Days, Campus Visit Days or campus tours.
Attend our Online Masters and PhD Open Days, and meet current postgraduate students at our virtual events.
Meet us online or in person to learn more about our teacher training PGCEs.
Join us online or face-to-face to find out about how to become a qualified social worker.
study @sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 876787
Chat to us on Unibuddy:
Ben Osborne ( Postgraduate Recruitment Officer)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/postgraduate/campus-events:
If you’d like to study a Masters or a PhD at Sussex, why not meet us on our beautiful campus at an Open Day, Campus Visit Day or campus tour.
On our Masters Open Days you’ll meet our teaching and support staff and see why studying at Sussex could be your next step.
Meet Sussex academics and find out more about studying at Sussex.
Our information sessions give you the chance to find out what it’s like to study at Sussex.
Explore our beautiful campus on guided and self-guided tours.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/visit-us/postgraduate/virtual-events:
You can discover what postgraduate study at Sussex is like from the comfort of home.
Join us at an event, meet our postgraduate students at a fortnightly Zoom session, or chat to postgraduate specialists at our monthly webchats.
Attend live subject sessions and find out what postgraduate life is really like from current students at a virtual Masters Open Day.
Book onto our webinars which cover a range of topics from postgraduate study essentials to subject specific course information and in-depth Masterclasses.
Find out more about applying for a Masters, our scholarships and our campus.
Find out more about scholarships and the cost of living at Sussex.
We’d love to welcome you to our beautiful campus and there are a number of ways you can meet us , including Campus Visit Days, Open Days and campus tours.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/fees-funding/masters-scholarships:
Make the future with a Sussex Masters scholarship.
We have Masters degree funding for UK and international students.
Use our database to see if you're eligible for a scholarship to fund your Masters, including our country scholarships and government-funded schemes.
Masters
Browse all available awards .
Want to know when our scholarships are released and how to apply?
Register for our email updates.
To find out when you'll receive your scholarship payments or check eligibility if you already have a scholarship, please email scholarships@sussex.ac.uk
If you have any queries, email scholarships@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/working-at-sussex:
There are a range of staff benefits at Sussex, including access to world-class resources, discounted gym and sports memberships, interest-free season ticket loan and staff activities throughout the year.
Just nine minutes by train from Brighton & Hove, Sussex has one of the most beautiful campus locations in Britain.
There are also a range of shops and cafés on campus, including:
Employees at the University of Sussex are entitled to a discount of 20% off the standard tuition fees for full online Masters-level courses offered by the University (with the exception of CPD modules).
These discounts have been made possible thanks to the generous support of the University’s online distance learning partner, Boundless Learning.
To be eligible for the discount staff members must:
Download the University of Sussex staff discount for online Masters courses terms and conditions [PDF 84KB] for full details on eligibility and exclusions.
The courses are self-funded and fees are paid on a modular basis.
The discount will be applied to the amount payable for each module.
Explore online courses offered by the University.
If you have questions about the staff discount for online Masters-level courses, email studyonline@sussex.ac.uk .
Our sports facilities and services are based in the Falmer Sports Complex and the Sussex Sports Centre and include two sports halls, two fitness rooms, a dance studio, squash courts and outdoor pitches.
There are discounted memberships for staff members, as well as dedicated staff sports programmes.
You can take part in our weekly exercise and course programme which includes activites like yoga, pilates, dance, circuit training, conditioning, spin and mountain biking.
The therapy room offers massage, reflexology, sports injury and chiropractic treatments.
We recognise the importance of supporting and retaining you through periods of maternity, paternity and adoption leave.
We have a range of family-friendly policies and childcare services including:
You can benefit from interest free loans for bus and rail season tickets, and a cycle to work scheme.
The payments are deducted directly from your salary over a 12-month period.
Contact the Payroll Office at Sussex House for more information.
There are many staff development activities which help develop you for the future while meeting the needs of the University.
Where appropriate, we may be able to provide financial assistance and day release facilities.
New staff are invited to our induction programme.
Find out more about how we develop our staff .
You can attend discounted courses in languages such as French, German and Italian, run by the Sussex Centre for Language Studies.
There are also facilities to follow self-instruction courses in over 40 other languages and language courses during lunch hours (term-time only).
As a staff member, you can attend evening lecture programmes which take place each term.
Professorial Lectures are given by Sussex academics, and other talks are given by visiting lecturers and speakers.
Library facilities are available to all staff.
The Library is open during term-time, and you need your staff ID card to enter the Library and borrow or return items.
As a staff member, you have access to health facilities including:
If you need any information or advice about renting in the private sector, our accommodation guide for staff [PDF 2MB] can help you.
University-managed accommodation on campus and in Brighton is only available to students, although you can book on-campus accommodation during the summer .
Wolves Removals www.wolves-removals.co.uk are based in West Sussex and offer both staff and students a generous 25% discount on removal and relocation fees.
Please contact them directly to discuss your requirements on 01903 893 731 or contact@wolves-removals.co.uk .
If you live more than 20 miles from the University, we may reimburse you for certain expenses incurred in the process of moving to the area, subject to the conditions set out in the Removal Expenses policy.
The maximum amount payable is normally £2,500.
If you leave voluntarily within three years you must repay the expenses on a sliding scale.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/how-to-apply:
Find out about the steps involved when using our online jobs portal.
You can apply for our current vacancies through our online job portal , where you can browse our current roles and sign up to receive job alerts when suitable roles become available.
If you have any queries about using the portal, require additional assistance, or wish to discuss any reasonable adjustments, please email recruitmentadministration@sussex.ac.uk or call 01273 873743.
When you apply for a role, you will be asked to complete your name, email address and how you heard about the role.
You will then be asked to accept our privacy policy .
You can decide to:
Some roles require a CV and cover letter only, which will be clearly stated on the advert.
The University is a Disability Confident Leader; this is a voluntary UK Government scheme that supports employers to be more inclusive.
The scheme aims to help employers make the most of the opportunities provided by employing disabled people and has been developed by employers and disabled people’s representatives.
It is the University’s policy to offer an interview to anyone with a disability who meets the essential criteria for the job, if a candidate has decided to opt into the scheme.
You will have an option to opt into this as part of your application.
All applications must be received by midnight of the closing date stated on the advert.
When you submit your application, you receive an automated acknowledgment email confirming that we’ve received your submission.
We have a legal responsibility to ensure all employees have the right to live and work in the UK, and we are committed to equality of opportunity and diversity in the workplace.
For some vacancies, we may be able to issue a Certificate of Sponsorship for the Skilled Worker Route, or a Statement of Guarantee for the Global Talent route, subject to the preferred candidate being able to meet the associated eligibility criteria.
Before you apply, please familiarise yourself with the visa information available on our website .
There will also be an opportunity for you to declare your current visa status on your application.
We respond to all candidates about the outcome of their application, whether you have been successful or not.
If you have not received an outcome three weeks after the closing date, you can email recruitmentadministration@sussex.ac.uk for an update.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/selection-process:
We let you know by email about the status of your application.
We tell all applicants if they are successful or not.
The selection panel assesses all applications received against the requirements of the job description and person specification to decide who will progress to the interview stage.
As soon as a decision has been reached, and you are chosen for an interview, you will be contacted on email with the following details:
We are committed to ensure all staff and potential employees are treated equitably.
Please email recruitmentadministration@sussex.ac.uk if you need any reasonable adjustments for your interview.
You will be interviewed by a panel which normally will include the recruiting manager and senior members of a school or department.
Interviews may be conducted as a videocall or in-person.
You may be asked to complete a test that’s relevant to the role as part of your interview.
Details of this are sent to you in your invitation.
If you have applied for an academic or manager role, we will often ask you to give a presentation on a relevant topic as part of the interview.
Details of this will be in your invitation.
You may need to bring original qualification certificates and proof of professional registration to the interview.
In some cases, there may be a second interview.
In all cases, we do our best to ensure you are given fair and appropriate opportunities to demonstrate your abilities to do the job you are interviewing for.
In some cases, we need to seek references before the interview.
In others, we will only seek references after an interview.
You can let us know in your application if you are happy for us to do so.
We must have at least two references from previous employers and three for academic roles before we can confirm appointment.
Once interviews have concluded, the panel will select a preferred candidate.
It is usual practice for the recruiting manager to call the preferred candidate in the first instance.
If you accept the offer of employment, we’ll ask you for a start date so we can prepare the paperwork and send you an offer of employment.
The offer is made subject to satisfactory references, occupational health clearance and the right to work in the UK.
There may be other conditions.
These are set out in the offer letter.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/job-offer:
Find out about what you need to prepare and paperwork to complete if you are offered a job at Sussex.
You will be sent an offer of employment from our Business Services team.
This includes your terms and conditions, job description and more information about your new role.
Before you start, you must complete and return all the documents you've been sent, including:
If you need visa sponsorship to work in the UK and we have sufficient evidence to support the issue of a Certificate of Sponsorship under the UK Visa & Immigration (UKVI) points-based system, we will apply for a restricted Certificate of Sponsorship.
You must send us:
When we are satisfied with all the information you provide, and by the recruiting department, we apply for a restricted Certificate of Sponsorship from the Home Office.
We will email you the details as soon as we have approval and are able to assign a Certificate of Sponsorship to you.
You must apply in your country of residence to obtain entry clearance to the UK before you travel.
Do not arrange to travel to the UK until you have this clearance.
When you arrive in the UK, you must collect your biometric residence permit.
UK Visas and Immigration will send you details of when and where to collect your permit from.
You can then send a clear scan for this to our Human Resources team by email.
If you already hold an eligible visa, and we have sufficient evidence to support the issue of a Certificate of Sponsorship under the UKVI points-based system, we will start the process of issuing an unrestricted Certificate of Sponsorship.
When we are satisfied with all the information you have provided, we will issue a Certificate of Sponsorship to you by email.
You must then apply to extend your leave to remain in the UK.
Find out more about work visas .
If you have any other questions about visa sponsorship, you can email hrcompliance@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/az/x:
No resources available.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/ogs/complaintsappeals:
Find out about our complaints and appeals procedures for staff and the public.
Check the Student Hub if you want to:
See all complaints and appeals information for current students .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/adqe/documents:
A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | J | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z
Academic Advising Policy [DOCX 23.27KB]
AY 2025/26 The University of Sussex Academic Framework (SAF)
ACR template for Taught and Online Distance Learning courses 2024-25 [DOCX 33.39KB]
ACR School Summary Report Template [DOCX 21.15KB]
Annual Course Review Handbook 2024-25 [PDF 411.42KB]
Annual Course Review - Data Report Guidance [DOCX 44.98KB]
ACR Website for further details
Attendance, Engagement and Absence policy
Academic Framework 2023/24
Academic Framework 2024/25
Academic Misconduct procedure including templates and forms
Assessment related forms
Briefing notes for chairs of validation panels [DOCX 38.70KB]
back to top
Curriculum Development Handbook 2024/25 [DOCX 162.68KB]
Effective Feedback
Electronic submission of assessment
Examination and Assessment Regulations Handbook
External Examiner procedure including templates and forms
Major change to course or pathwa y
Major Change to a Module Form
Marks Calendar
Modes of Assessment
New Course Specification (for validation)
Peer Observation Forms [DOCX 28.25KB]
Peer Observation Policy [DOCX 30.87KB]
Periodic Review Handbook
POLICY ON THE RECORDING OF TEACHING ACTIVITIES AND OTHER USES OF PANOPTO [PDF 175.73KB]
Principles to support Assessment and Feedback
Principles to support Schools in scheduling deadlines
Progression and Award Board (PAB) Dates
Proposal for a New Module
Proposal for Withdrawal or Suspension of a Module
Qualification Spreadsheet First Degree [XLSX 12.19KB]
Qualification Spreadsheet non-First Degree [XLSX 12.51KB]
Qualification Spreadsheet non-Masters Postgraduate [XLSX 12.52KB]
Qualification Spreadsheet Postgraduate Masters [XLSX 12.49KB]
Qualification Spreadsheet UG Foundation [XLSX 10.21KB]
Reasonable Adjustments for disabled students
Recognition of Prior Learning policy
Suitability to practise
Sussex Choice FAQs

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/adqe/standards/academicmisconduct:
Please use your ITS username and password.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/humanresources/personnel/promotionrewardprocedures:
The Vice-Chancellor announced in February that the Academic Promotions Process is currently paused.
Academic Promotions is however currently running in BSMS due to the different funding and governance structures of the School.
For guidance and details please see the BSMS Sharepoint page.
Please contact deansoffice@bsms.ac.uk if you have any problems accessing this or cannot find the documents.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/adqe:
The Academic Quality and Partnerships team works with a range of colleagues at Sussex and at partner institutions in order to assure the quality of University of Sussex awards.
We work in the following core business areas: Curriculum, Partnership and External Examiners.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/srac:
One in five students at Sussex has a disability.
Find out about the help available for disabled students, and students with a learning difficulty or ongoing physical or mental health condition.
We run a drop-in every Monday and Wednesday between 2pm–4pm in the Student Centre during term-time.
The first thing to do if you need disability support is tell us.
Disclosing a disability does not count against you when studying at Sussex.
It means we can support you.
To access support, tell us about your needs and give us your consent to work with services across the University.
If you're starting a new course, you'll also need to tell us about your needs again, as these may have changed.
Tell us about your needs
Learn more about the support available while you're studying.
Get specialist equipment or funding towards your studies, such as Disabled Students' Allowance.
Let us know if you have health or access requirements for University-managed housing.
Find out about services, transport and report any issues around accessing our campus.
Explore ways digital tools can help to remove barriers and enhance your studies.
Find out how to apply for an extension to a deadline.
If you are the parent or guardian of a Sussex student with a disability, read our guidance for parents of students .
If you're a member of staff at Sussex working with students, see how to support disabled students .
If you're a DSA Needs Assessor, see information for DSA Needs Assessor s .
As a current student, you can log into My Sussex to get more information and direct advice from our teams.
Go to my sussex
If you haven't started at Sussex yet, have graduated, are a parent, or external assessor you can email our Disability Advisors at disabilityadvice@sussex.ac.uk for more information about our support service.
If you need more detailed advice, a member of our team will arrange a phone or video appointment with you.
The Student Centre is your go-to place for advice and guidance.
Contact the Student Centre .
If you have a more specific query, see how to contact our disability advisors .
If you register with Disability Advice after Friday 14 March 2025, we cannot guarantee that reasonable adjustments will be applied for exams in the semester two assessment period that runs between 6 – 24 May 2025.
Check arrangements to support students throughout industrial action .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/studentlifecentre/funding/hardship:
Learn about money awarded to students in hardship and short-term loans provided by Sussex.
The University has partnered with Blackbullion to provide helpful resources and guidance on a range of financial topics.
BlackBullion is an easy-to-use online learning platform filled with short videos, articles and quizzes covering many financial subjects.
Before making a hardship or welfare application, why not sign up for the BlackBullion money management tool .
It includes a simple Budget Calculator to help you plan your weekly or monthly budget and ensure you don’t run out of money.
You can apply for Hardship funding, which we provide with the help of generous donors.
This money is a grant we give to our students who are most in need.
You can request a welfare loan and receive between £50-£700.
The welfare loan is interest-free and must be repaid within one calendar month of being awarded.
You can apply for financial support towards attending graduation.
This will cover the cost of two guest tickets, gown hire and a basic photography package.
You can complete the form after you have received your graduation ceremony invitation.
If you are a student with a specific learning difference (SpLD), such as dyslexia, you might be able to claim for the costs of an SpLD assessment.
Find out about Specific Learning Difference assessments .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/finance/services/paymentsmanagement:
The Accounts Payable team are located at:
Room 207 Sussex House Falmer Brighton BN1 9RH
Accounts Payable are responsible for ensuring the correct and timely payment of all University of Sussex invoices and expenses.
To ensure timely and accurate payments, should you receive any payment related correspondence from suppliers (invoices, credit notes or statements), please send these directly to Accounts Payable by post or email.
The Accounts Payable team are responsible for Payments to our Suppliers, Students, Staff and Visitors: Payment timetable 24-25 (1) [PDF 154.65KB]
Email internal queries (student expenses, out of pocket expenses and purchase cards) to: FinanceServiceDesk@sussex.ac.uk
Email supplier (external) queries and statements to: suppliers@sussex.ac.uk
Email invoices and credit notes to: invoices@sussex.ac.uk
Head of Financial Operations - Accounts Payable: Sean Howard
S.Howard@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/admissions:
The Admissions Office deals with all full-time Undergraduate applications, and full and part-time Masters and PhD applications.
Policies and handbooks
People and contacts
Our Admissions Office is located on the ground floor of Sussex House on the University of Sussex campus.
Our opening hours are Monday to Friday from 10am to 1pm and 2pm to 5pm.
Find out how to apply for Undergraduate courses
Find out how to apply for Masters courses
Find out how to apply for PhD degrees
Request a bank letter to open an account
PhD students
ug.applicants@sussex.ac.uk 01273 678416
pg.applicants@sussex.ac.uk 01273 877773
phd.applicants@sussex.ac.uk 01273 877773

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/adqe/partnerships/institutions:
The current list of University of Sussex courses delivered by local and national partners can be found in the links below.
A validated course is designed and delivered by the partner institution but awarded and quality assured by the University of Sussex.
A franchised course is designed and assessed by the University of Sussex but is delivered by a partner institution.
Partner status, in the context of validated or franchised provision, is achieved following a process of institutional recognition.
This leads to recognition by the University of Sussex Council for the purposes of delivering courses that lead to an award of the University.
Institutions interested in entering into partnership with the University should contact Oliver Craig, Head of AQP: O.Craig@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/studentlifecentre/funding/americanstudentloans:
Find out what federal student aid is available for US students, if you’re eligible and how to apply.
The University of Sussex participates in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program.
As a US citizen or eligible noncitizen you can apply for a Federal Direct Loan if you have accepted an offer of a place at the University of Sussex on an eligible programme.
You may instead choose to take out a private loan through a private education lender.
You will not be eligible for a PELL Grant or a Perkins Loan as these are not available to those studying outside of the United States.
The Financial Aid Office will be accepting loan applications for the 2025/26 academic year from June.
Please note that applications will be processed in strict order of receipt.
Find out how to apply .
The Financial Aid Office are responsible for administering Federal Direct Loans at the University of Sussex.
Get in touch by emailing: usfinancialaid@sussex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/americanstudies:
Find out about American Studies at Sussex, based within the School of Media, Arts and Humanities, and search for people who work there.
The Sussex Centre for American Studies is nationally recognised with an acclaimed reputation for our research and teaching.
American Studies was ranked 2nd in the UK in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023 and 2nd in the UK in the Complete University Guide 2023 .
Our academics, many of whom trained in the United States, have published books and articles on the history, literature, politics and culture of the Americas.
They have won awards from organisations including the Royal Historical Society, the International Studies Association and the British Association for American Studies, and are regularly interviewed on the BBC.
Our work is far-ranging, covering fields as diverse as:
Our interdisciplinary approach means our students are taught by our core faculty and academics from English Literature, English Language and Linguistics, History, Politics, International Relations, Music, Film and Media.
We offer a range of resources to support undergraduate and postgraduate study.
We have an extensive Year Abroad Scheme , with options to study at campuses from New England to the Deep South, the Midwest to the West Coast, and Canada.
Pulitzer-Prize winning journalist Isabel Wilkerson, cartoonist and journalist Joe Sacco and punk legend Richard Hell have all delivered lectures at our events.
We also help prepare our students for life after University by explaining the range of employment options available .
Find academics working within American Studies
Discover more about studying and life as an American Studies student
other Media, Arts and Humanities subject areas .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/fiftyyears:
This is an archive page
Celebrating 50 years of excellence
In the academic year 2011-2012 the University celebrated its 50th anniversary.
We have now come to the end of the year and would like to thank all of our alumni, supporters and friends who made this year truly spectacular.
Take a look at our events and activities pages for a full round up of the years activities.
Tweet
Join in the conversation on Twitter
Tag your posts with the hashtag #sussexuni50 to get involved.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/broadcast:
To use this area you first need to login.
To do that, enter your university username and password in to the login form.
Copyright © 2010-2025, University of Sussex

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/anthropology:
School of Global Studies
You are joining a highly-rated department with Anthropology at Sussex ranked 7th in The Complete University Guide 2019
You can gain career enhancing, global experience by studying abroad for a term or year as part of your Anthropology degree
You will receive the foundation for future employment with Anthropology at Sussex ranked 1st for Graduate Prospects in The Complete University Guide 2019
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Research
Why anthropology at Sussex?
Student projects
Visit SussexGlobal Blog
Department of Anthropology internal website
Autumn 2023-24
Arts C168 T  (01273) 877185 E anthoffice@sussex.ac.uk
Hannah Leigh and Clare Rogers Arts C167 T  (01273) 877686 or (01273) 678722 E globalstudiespg@sussex.ac.uk
Department of Anthropology, School of Global Studies, University of Sussex, Falmer, Brighton, BN1 9SJ
For contact details of members of the department refer to the Anthropology faculty page.
Colour Conversations: Colour & Emotion
4th World Child Adolescent Medicine and Adolescent Health Conference
From Sussex to South America: A New Beat for Climate Justice
Voices of Gaza in Sussex
Tweets by @SussexAnthropol
A post shared by Sussex Uni - Global Studies🏳️‍🌈✊🏼✊🏽✊🏾✊🏿 (@sussexuniglobal)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/equalities/raceequality:
Find out what we are doing at Sussex towards race equality.
The University of Sussex recognises that racial disparities and racism have historically pervaded institutions like ours.
We pledge that we will seek to be Anti-racist by making all necessary changes to the education, research and administrative activities of the University.
Through diligent, sustained anti-racist work we will move towards being an inclusive university that genuinely celebrates and reflects diversity.
We recognise that racism is entrenched in UK society and manifests in everyday individual and institutional processes and behaviours.
Racism is also pernicious in UK higher education and with its consequential disparities requires a systematic response to ensure that we all benefit from a world class university experience.
Universities UK (UUK), a collective of 140 universities, conducted a study into BAME student attainment at UK universities ( #CLOSINGTHEGAP , 2019) and found a 13% gap between the likelihood of white students and students from BAME backgrounds receiving a 1st or a 2:1 degree.
Similarly, according to the Universities and College Union ( UCU 2019), ethnicity is a significant factor in staff pay gaps as BAME staff are less likely to hold senior positions and more likely to be on a lower salary than their white counterparts.
As an institution, we must actively play our part in dismantling the systems and structures that lead to racial inequality, disadvantage and under-representation and ensure that our commitment to anti-racism becomes transparent in the culture of the University and the everyday experiences of our community.
The University of Sussex pledges that we will seek to be a nti-racist .
We recognise that we need to be more proactive in challenging ideas, systems and structures and that it is not enough to be simply not racist .
This pledge augments our approach as described in our Inclusive Sussex and a Better University for a Better World strategies and will be evidenced in our policies and corporate strategies.
We will address issues such as negative, race-related aspects of the Black, Asian and Minoritised Ethnic (BAME) staff and student experience; the BAME awarding gap; and BAME staff pay gaps.
Racism and racial disparities can present in our university in various ways.
As a result of this Pledge we will seek to improve: Eurocentrism in curricula; racial disparities in the research, learning and working environment; racial harassment and discrimination; BAME representation and career progression in academic and professional service roles; and racial literacy and competencies in staff and student bodies.
These disparities are consequences of historic societal and institutional processes that are systemic and often complex.
Addressing them will require a diversity of thought, proactivity and long-term commitment.
Through diligent anti-racist work, we can confidently move towards being an inclusive university that genuinely celebrates diversity.
Vision for an Anti-racist Sussex includes but is not limited to:
We recognise that the term ‘BAME’ - which stands for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic - is contested.
For some it is considered as a homogenising term which does not appreciate the varied historical and lived experiences of those who have a wide range of heritages and are racially minoritised.
Others find it helpful in specific contexts.
Recognising this, we will take a flexible approach.
For example, the work that we are undertaking at the University will endeavour to disaggregate data and other qualitative information to better understand the disadvantages faced by specific minoritised groups.
​Meanwhile, official data reporting processes set up by bodies such as Higher Education Statistics Authority (HESA) require us to report using the term BAME, so this terminology will still be present in some of our communications.
Find out more about our Race Equality Charter
Find out more about our project here: Black at Sussex
Find out more out more about our Gypsies, Travellers, Roma, Showmen and Boaters Pledge
Find out more about our staff networks .
You can view past reports on ethnicity pay gaps published by the University.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/admissions/ug/questions:
At Sussex, we want your journey from application to arrival to be as smooth as possible.
So that you’re fully prepared, we’ve set out a step-by-step guide to applying via UCAS, with advice on what we look for from successful students.
To find out more about our degrees, see our undergraduate courses .
To help you apply to Sussex:
For some of our courses there are specific applications routes:
With more than 200 undergraduate courses from 46 subject areas to choose from, Sussex is the perfect place to find a degree that allows you to follow your passion and shape your future.
Choose from single-honours courses (where you study one main subject), joint-honours (the study of two subjects), major/minors (where you spend 75% of your time studying one subject, and 25% the other) and courses with an integrated placement, study abroad or Masters year.
Find out more about our undergraduate courses
To find the entry requirements and offer levels for your chosen course, see our undergraduate courses .
This lists:
For some of our courses you will be invited to an interview as part of the selection process.
We accept applications from mature students , and in some circumstances take into account wider experience if you do not have formal academic qualifications.
Find out more about our entry requirements for UK students .
If you are an international student based overseas see our international qualifications .
If you are an international student based in the UK see our UK-based international qualifications .
If you do not meet the entry requirements, you can take an International Foundation Year or International Year One preparation course.
If your first language isn’t English, you also need to meet our English language requirements or successfully complete our Pre-sessional English course .
English language requirements are also listed with each of our undergraduate courses .
You must apply online through UCAS for full-time courses at Sussex and check your course for any specific application procedures.
You can apply for up to five courses via UCAS (although only four can be for Medicine).
You do not need to use all five choices and you can apply for several courses at the same university.
If you’re an international student, you also apply through UCAS.
See the UCAS guide for international students applying to UK universities .
Our UCAS code is S90 and our code name is SUSX.
The initial applications deadline for most courses is the final Wednesday in January.
However, for Medicine, the deadline for Brighton and Sussex Medical School is 15 October .
UCAS accepts late applications (until 30 June) but some courses may close earlier if they become full.
If you are a UK student, you are strongly advised to apply by the initial UCAS deadline on the final Wednesday in January.
If you are an international student, you can normally apply up until 30 June, but don’t leave it too late because if you do get a place, you’ll still need to arrange a visa and your accommodation.
See our tips for writing a personal statement .
Find out how to transfer to Sussex from another university .
If any of the following applies to you, UCAS can offer additional support and information during your application:
Find out more about individual needs from UCAS .
To help fund your studies, you may be eligible for a Government student loan .
We also have a range of undergraduate scholarships available.
Find out more about our undergraduate scholarships and tuition fees
If your fee status is unclear, we will ask you to complete a questionnaire.
Keep up-to-date with your applications through UCAS Hub .
UCAS notify you when we reach a decision on your application.
Our offers will normally be conditional offers (if you are still studying towards your qualifications) or unconditional (if you have completed your qualification and met the conditions already).
When you have all your decisions back from all five of your choices, you use UCAS Hub to decide which offer you want to accept.
If you receive an offer, we will invite you to an Applicant Visit Day.
If you are an international student studying a certain science- or engineering-based course you must apply for ATAS clearance after you receive your offer.
Find out more about offers .
If you achieve the grades required by your conditional offer, we will confirm your place via UCAS when the exam results are published in the summer.
In some cases, you may be asked to send in copies of your results when they are released.
You may also be asked to send in verification of qualifications you have previously completed (especially if you received an unconditional offer).
All results (including verification) must be submitted by 31 August.
If you miss the conditions of your offer, we will review your application and it may still be possible to accept you.
Alternatively, we may be able to offer you a place on one of our Foundation Years .
You can request to defer your entry for a year.
But you can’t defer your place more than once.
If you are an international student and you are offered a place, you will receive a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number, so that you can apply for a student visa .
Find out more about confirming your place
You will be sent registration and pre-arrival information in early September.
Undergraduate admissions ug.enquiries@sussex.ac.uk +44 (0)1273 678416

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/staff/research/development/apply:
The University is committed to submitting only proposals of the highest quality for funding of research and knowledge exchange activities.
To ensure this standard, proposals must be planned with plenty of time, undergo a comprehensive internal review before submission, and complete the institutional approvals process.
In addition to drafting the proposal, creating a budget, and going through the peer review process, several checks to ensure eligibility and compliance must be completed before submission.
To secure Research Development support and give your application the best chance of success, please inform us of your intention to submit at least six weeks before the deadline, eight to twelve weeks for complex or large bids.
This is also applicable to applications that do not generate an income to Sussex.
To apply for funding, you will need access to Worktribe, Sussex’s research management system.
This will allow you to develop research funding bids in collaboration with Research & Innovation Services (RIS).

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/staffdevelopment/appraisal:
Learn more about the staff apprenticeship scheme and upcoming apprenticeships events.
University staff can undertake a fully-funded apprenticeship with the support of their line manager and department/division.
The process may begin at any time, but your annual Achievement and Development Review is the perfect opportunity to discuss how an apprenticeship could help you to develop in your current role, or fill a skills gap within your department.
From January 2026, the government will withdraw funding for Level 7 apprenticeships for staff aged 22 and over.
This means that if you’re considering applying for a programme such as the Senior Leader apprenticeship (which includes a fully funded MBA) or a Data/Tech or AI Specialist apprenticeship, or any other Level 7 apprenticeship, you’ll need to email staffapprenticeships@sussex.ac.uk asap as places are filling fast.
Please note enquiries and applications will be actioned in date order.
With the Annual Development Review (ADR) season underway, this is the perfect moment to explore how an apprenticeship could support your professional development.
These programmes offer a unique opportunity to gain high-level qualifications, including masters-level training, while continuing in your current role, with no cost to you or your department.
We’re expecting high demand for places as many colleagues are seeking to upskill or reskill for new opportunities.
As we look to the future, Sussex will need to grow our own specialists, leaders and managers.
Apprenticeships are a powerful way to do just that.
Whether you're aspiring to step into a new role, or simply want to futureproof your career and add another qualification to your CV, there’s never been a better time to start.
Register your interest today: staffapprenticeships@sussex.ac.uk
*Note that funding for other levels is not affected with 600 different subjects available – please ask*
On this page, you can find out more about:
Apprenticeships are a combination of practical training and part-time study leading to a nationally recognised qualification.
They are an excellent way for individuals to earn while they learn, gaining valuable skills and knowledge in a specific job role through a mix of learning in the workplace, formal off-the-job training and the opportunity to practise new skills in a real work environment.
The apprenticeship programme must be linked to the applicant’s current role for them to succeed.
However, there are exceptions; for example, if an administrator wants to complete an apprenticeship in Project Management, then their manager will need to confirm that the apprentice will receive adequate exposure and opportunities to develop their project management skills for the duration of the apprenticeship.
Further information for both staff and managers can be found in the Staff Apprenticeships Handbook [Word 297.97KB ] .
An apprenticeship is always a minimum of 12 months and can take between one and four years to complete, depending on the programme, the capability of the apprentice, and the industry sector.
Apprenticeship funding works under a system introduced in April 2017.
Large employers whose pay bill exceeds £3 million contribute to the apprenticeship levy.
This levy amount is collected by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC), much like income tax and National Insurance, and these funds are set aside for apprenticeship training.
When it is time to use these funds, the University taps into them through a Digital Apprenticeship Service account to pay the apprenticeship training provider.
This means apprentices and their departments do not have to worry about extra training costs.
And importantly, there is no cut in the apprentice's salary because their job contract stays the same.
Please note, however, that some training providers may charge for exam re-sits.
All apprenticeship programmes have equivalent educational levels.
Apprenticeships are available in a huge variety of subjects at all educational levels, from GCSE through to Master's degree equivalents.
If you cannot see a programme suitable for you here, please contact the Staff Apprenticeships team to find out about other available courses.
*various pathways available
Our leadership and management apprenticeships are facilitated by specialist training provider, Knowledge Brief .
Staff can watch a short video Introduction to KnowledgeBrief on Panopto.
This apprenticeship is particularly suited to new or aspiring managers interested in developing their skills and knowledge.
However, you do not necessarily need to lead a team to benefit from this programme.
It would also be relevant for those with workload management or project management responsibilities.
Modules include:
View the Team Leader/Supervisor Level 3 Programme [PDF 334.14KB ]
This apprenticeship is suitable for mid-level managers with approximately 4-5 years management experience.
Also suitable for those with high-level workload management or project management responsibilities.
This two-year programme provides advanced leadership techniques which are focused on supporting the organisation’s wider strategic objectives.
It is suited to mid–senior level managers with developed experience in their field, looking to formalise their leadership and management expertise.
View the Operational/Departmental Manager Level 5 Programme [PDF 357.92KB ]
This course is designed for an aspiring coach or someone looking for ways to develop existing coaching skills as a manager and leader.
View the Coaching Professional Level 5 online programme
This apprenticeship lasts for 15-18 months and is aimed at any individual moving into or working within a senior or strategic management role.
You will acquire all the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to complete this Level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship, through focusing on the following key duties:
View/download the Senior Leader Level 7 programme [PDF 390.56KB ]
Colleagues at Sussex have gained apprenticeship qualifications in a broad range of subject areas.
Read about some of their experiences .
Apprenticeships can be completed in a range of subjects including but not limited to:
Eleanor Cartwright, Marketing Manager, has completed a L5 Coaching Apprenticeship with KnowledgeBrief.
She has said that " Overall, this opportunity has been really valuable to my career, but it’s not just about promotion.
It’s also helped in my personal life, which I wasn’t expecting.
I think I am now a better partner and friend on many levels ".
Read the full interview .
Sophie Heath, Change Communications Officer, is currently completing a Digital Marketing Apprenticeship.
Find out how she's getting on !
"The fact that the apprenticeship has been organised through my employer and I don't have to fund this qualification myself is amazing ” - Mia Difalco.
Read Mia's interview about her Level 5 Human Resources apprenticeship.
" The course content has challenged me to think differently about how I get the best out of the team and myself and increased my knowledge in areas where I had not previously had a great deal of experience " - Terry Cooper is Deputy Head of Operations, Fitness and Performance at Sussexsport.
Read Terry's interview about his Level 5 apprenticeship in Operational/Departmental Management .
“The apprenticeship forces you to think about how that learning can be directly applied to your role right now.
It helps you develop in the role that you're in, become more effective and find new ways of thinking" - James Bluring.
Read James' interview about his Senior Leader Master’s Degree apprenticeship with an MBA.
To be eligible for apprenticeship funding, applicants must:
Please note that apprentices aged 19 or over are no longer required to complete English and maths qualifications as part of their apprenticeship.
Apprentices aged 16 to 18 will still need to achieve English and maths qualifications to support their career progression.
However, fully funded English and maths training remains available for those who need or wish to access it.
The minimum duration of 12 months is based on an apprentice working at least 30 hours a week, including any off-the-job training.
If the apprentice works fewer than 30 hours a week, or part-time, the apprentice must agree with the training provider to extend the apprenticeship duration accordingly.
Yes, as long as it’s a different subject or above their degree level.
A degree is a Level 6 qualification.
As such, a graduate can study a suitable Level 7 apprenticeship, or undertake a Level 2-6 apprenticeship in a different subject area.
For individuals on fixed-term contracts, the contract must cover the full apprenticeship duration, including the end-point assessment.
20% of the apprentice’s working hours should be allocated to off-the-job training, but this is very flexible and can be day release, two half days, a few hours every day, or a block of time over the duration of the programme.
Examples of off-the-job training include:
Only apprentices aged 16 to 18 who have not previously achieved grades 9-4 or A*-C in GCSE English and maths (or equivalent qualifications) will be required to complete Functional Skills alongside their apprenticeship programme.
Functional Skills are an alternative to the GCSE route, with the flexibility to sit assessments all year round.
Learning material for functional skills qualifications is based on practical and real-life situations, so Functional Skills can increase confidence and improve both daily life and work performance and productivity.
Functional Skills are funded by the apprenticeship levy and the course runs alongside the apprenticeship.
These English and/or maths modules are generally delivered online for 2-3 hours per week with one subject studied at a time (until exams are achieved), and these must be completed before the end of the apprenticeship programme.
Staff Apprenticeships Sussex House SH-230 University of Sussex Brighton BN1 9RH
staffapprenticeships@sussex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/arthistory:
Find out about Art History at Sussex, based within the School of Media, Arts and Humanities, and search for people who work there.
Art History at Sussex was established in 1967.
We are recognised internationally for our pioneering inter-disciplinary approach to art’s histories and for our work in unpacking the cultural, political, social and economic significance of visual and material culture.
Art History was ranked 4 th in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2023 .
Our specialisms range from the classical to the contemporary.
We have pioneered the feminist study of Art History across periods ranging from Byzantium to the Present, and were among the first UK University’s to study photography, an area in which we continue to thrive.
Other strengths include:
We have forged extensive links with a wide range of museums, galleries and collections.
Many staff have international reputations as curators and we are regularly asked to advise on international exhibitions and collections.
Our research informs exhibitions at museums and galleries such as Tate, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Science Museum.
These exceptional connections create opportunities for our students.
Every week, prominent artists and curators give talks, screenings and masterclasses at Sussex.
Regular Art History Work in Progress Seminars allow students to experience current research by leading academics and curators from around the world.
The University Art Society provides Art History students with the chance to work alongside faculty to organise talks, events and screenings.
The Art Society also curate exhibitions and run art classes.
Our links with schools, colleges and local communities provide further opportunities to engage with people beyond the university through the study of art and its histories.
See the work being carried out in History, Art History and Philosophy
Find academics working within Art History
Discover more about studying, and life, as an Art History student

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/catering/wheretoeat/artspiazzacafe:
See the options for eating and drinking across the University of Sussex campus.
Between the Arts buildings and Shawcross building.
Near Falmer House and the Sport Centre.
Between Arts B and Arts C.
Ground floor of Brighton and Sussex Medical School.
Ground floor of Bramber House.
Ground floor of the Business School.
Ground floor of the Library.
Near Ashdown House and the John Maynard Smith building.
Between Pevensey I and Pevensey II.
Next to the library.
Inside Falmer House.
Part of Northfield accommodation.
Inside the Student Centre.
Use our map to see the location of our cafes, restaurants and bars.
Download the food map [PDF 606.77KB ]
Bramber House is accessible from Arts Path.
It has accessible entrances on this side, and a further accessible entrance from Refectory Road on the east side.
There are plenty of pop-ups and foodie events happening almost every week on campus, from cafe takeovers to visits from local vendors and street food stars like Bao House, House of Cluck and Sticks and Salads.
For all the latest news, follow @sussexunifood on Instagram and download the Uni Food Hub app .
Find out when our cafes are open during term time and over the holidays .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/astronomy:
Our scientific research interests are tightly focused on the extra-galactic: cosmology and early universe; structure formation; clusters; galaxy formation and evolution.
We address questions with a full combination of theoretical, numerical and observational techniques.
The Astronomy Centre is part of the Department of Physics and Astronomy , within the School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences at the University of Sussex.
We have close links with the Particle Theory Group.
We conduct world-leading research and also offer undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
We welcome PhD applications, please see the studentships page, and also applications for postdoctoral fellowships .
See also the contacts page and details of our location .
Read about the historical background to the Astronomy Centre .
Postdoctoral Fellowships
Applications are invited for a number of postdoctoral positions.
Please see postdoctoral fellowships for more information.
Banner image credit : NASA, ESA, CSA, and STScI, J.
DePasquale (STScI)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/physics:
Find out what it’s like to be a student in the Department of Physics and Astronomy and learn about our world-leading research.
Find undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Physics and Astronomy.
Find out how you’ll be taught as an undergraduate student in Physics and Astronomy.
Discover our labs, lecture theatres and specialist equipment.
Learn about Physics and Astronomy research and explore our research groups.
Find academics based in the department.
Explore the activities we run and ways we work with people locally.
Top 20 in the UK for Physics ( Guardian University Guide 2025 )
7th in the UK for our research environment in Physics in REF 2021 ( Times Higher Education )
Scientists from the University of Sussex brought dark matter and distant galaxies to life this weekend at the Goodwood Festival of Speed
Sussex recently welcomed around 150 leading experimental and theoretical physicists from around the globe for the 30th International Workshop on Weak...
Read more Physics and Astronomy news and events .
Our academics are pioneering researchers who operate at the cutting edge of physics.
From quantum optics to groundbreaking experiments in astrophysics, we’re pushing boundaries in science every day.
You’ll have access to state-of-the-art facilities and technologies, working on revolutionary discoveries alongside our expert faculty, and collaborate with peers on exciting research placements.
We’re a member of the South East Physics Network , working together to support and grow physics as an important subject for the UK economy and science.
This also means you’ll create links with industry that will help your future career.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/humanresources/athenaswan:
See Equality, Diversity and Inclusion webpages Athena Swan

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/automotive:
The Energy and Materials Engineering Research Centre (EMERC) focuses on a wide range of research including dynamics and control, thermofluids, energy efficiency and networks, energy storage and vectors and materials and manufacturing.
A warm welcome to Dr.
Hejun Hui who joins as a Visiting Research Fellow within the Energy and Materials Engineering Research Centre
25 March 2025
Prof Dunne gives plenary lecture at the Global Annual Meet on Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering on hydrogen resonating free piston generators
If you have any questions, contact Prof.
Peter Fussey (Director of EMERC)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/its/services/teachingandlearning/audiovisual:
We install and maintain audiovisual equipment for many of the rooms on campus and support staff who require assistance while teaching in General Teaching Space (GTS) rooms.
We also lend equipment to presenters and lecturers and provide a range of audiovisual services including training on how to use the AV equipment in teaching rooms.
Microphones in lecture theatres All lecture theatres have a microphone on the lectern but many rooms also have lapel or portable mics available for use.
These are secured in strongboxes at the front of the theatre.
In 2016, we're introducing new strongboxes that are opened with a Salto access card:
Teaching rooms have traditionally been equipped with facilities for both DVD and VHS playback but the transition to newer technologies is now underway.
All new teaching rooms, including those in the Jubilee building, are being fitted with BluRay & DVD playback, plus digital document cameras as standard.
Due to the high costs of sourcing obsolescent and scarce equipment, teaching rooms will no longer be fitted with VHS players, OHPs or 35mm slide projectors.
A small stock of VHS players and slide projectors will be kept for loan from the IT Service Desk in Shawcross but they will not be replaced when they reach end of life.
Click the links below and login to:
Immediate support You can call us for immediate assistance with the IT equipment while you’re teaching.
Monday-Friday 9.00am-5.30pm (call 01273 678022 if not using an internal phone)
Be respectful towards our staff We know technology can be frustrating at times.
If something's wrong, we want to fix it but please don't be rude or abusive to people who are trying to help.
Updated on 27 April 2021

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/students/directory:
This directory holds email addresses for all students at the University of Sussex.
For data protection reasons you can only use it by logging in with your ITS username and password.
Log in to the student directory

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/guide-to-undergraduate-study:
Learn to think independently, to question assumptions and get ready to explore the world around you.
At Sussex, the latest research – on topics ranging from sustainability to quantum technologies – informs our teaching.
Undergraduate courses are usually the first degree you study.
The award you’ll graduate with depends on your subject area.
Undergraduate awards include BA, BSc and LLB.
The duration of an undergraduate degree is usually three years.
If you choose to apply for a placement year or to study abroad, or to go on to an integrated Masters year, it could last four or five years.
With a single-honours course, you focus in depth on your core subject.
If you want to study more than one subject in depth, you can explore exciting combinations of subjects with a joint-honours course, each taking up 50% of your time.
What you learn in one subject complements and enhances what you learn in the other.
You can study in depth in a core area (your major subject: taking up 75% of your time), while also exploring an additional area (your minor subject: taking up 25% of your time) with a major/minor course.
If you don’t have the qualifications or subject profile to start a degree from Year 1 with us, or if you’re not sure which subject to specialise in, a Foundation Year is a great way to start.
You gain a rich understanding of your subject and develop the academic and transferable skills you need throughout your time studying at university.
Successfully completing your Foundation Year means you’ll be able to continue studying for an undergraduate degree at Sussex, including integrated Masters degrees in some science subjects.
Find out more about our Foundation Years .
The International Study Centre on our campus offers an International Foundation Year.
This is for you if you’re an international student and do not meet the direct entry requirements for undergraduate study.
Learn how studying with us could help you to flourish .
Many undergraduate courses include an extra research-focused year, where you work towards your integrated Masters degree .
An integrated Masters course is the easiest way to fund postgraduate study.
You can apply for a student loan to guarantee you’ll be covered for all years of your degree.
If you start your studies on a standard undergraduate degree, you’ll have the option – depending on available places on the course and how well you’re doing academically – to transfer to an integrated Masters.
The award you’ll graduate with depends on your subject area – integrated Masters awards include MSci, MEng, MPhys, MMath, MChem and MComp.
Some of our integrated Masters courses also offer you the opportunity to gain Chartered status in your professional field when you graduate.
At Sussex, the academic year starts in September.
There are three terms in each academic year: autumn, spring and summer.
In each term, you’ll take modules.
A module may consist, for example, of a mix of lectures, a seminar or laboratory sessions.
You’ll have a timetable with the modules for each week of your course.
Some modules are core, which means all students on the course take them.
Others are options, which means you can choose the topics that interest you most.
Currently, most of our single-honours courses also offer electives – modules from a subject area that’s different to your core course.
They enable you to enrich your degree by spending time in your first two years exploring different disciplines.
To successfully complete a three-year undergraduate course, for example, you’ll need 360 credits, 120 per year of study.
Each module carries 15 or 30 credits, which you gain when successfully passing your assessments.
Find out more about our undergraduate courses .
Teaching at university is different from school or college, and you’ll need to be increasingly independent in your work.
Our teaching methos can include:
Find out more about how you’ll learn on your undergraduate course .
You’re assessed using methods including:
Find out more about assessment on your undergraduate courses .
At Sussex, you can enrich your course and broaden your horizons by applying for a placement, applying to study abroad, or by learning a language.
Our experienced teams can help with your queries, including how changes to your course, such as adding a placement or study abroad year, could have an impact on your Student visa.
Please note that placements and study abroad depend on the latest pandemic travel guidelines.
A placement is a way to develop your skills and gain invaluable experience, so that when you leave Sussex to find a job you already have a foot on the career ladder.
You can choose to apply for:
You’ll be responsible for applying for and securing your placement.
Our dedicated careers team can provide you with information and advice.
Studying abroad is a great way to explore the world, meet new people and have the kind of experience you will never forget.
It will also give you an edge when it comes to a career.
Employers value graduates who have negotiated their way in the world, experienced different cultures and developed an international perspective.
Changes to your course, such as adding a placement or study abroad year, could have an impact on your Student visa.
You can find out how any changes could affect you or email immigration@sussex.ac.uk
Studying a language can help you develop key skills in communication, organisation and cultural awareness – skills that are highly valued by employers.
You may be able to study the following languages at the Department of Language Studies :

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/study-abroad:
Experience another culture, improve your language abilities and gain an edge when it comes to your career.
A year or term abroad gives you the opportunity to study at an international university or work in another country.
We have one of the best study abroad programmes in the UK with over 140 universities worldwide for you to choose from.
This includes high-ranking universities in the United States and study opportunities in Europe, Latin America and Asia.
You can apply to study abroad on all of our undergraduate courses (some offer a guaranteed study abroad year).
Where you can study abroad will depend on your course and the availability and number of places at the partner university.
If you successfully apply to study abroad for a year, your course is extended by a year and you'll go abroad in Year 3.
If you successfully apply to do a term abroad, this is taken in the first of second term of Year 2.
Even if you don't speak another language, there are plenty of destinations for you to choose from.
You can study at:
Some of our undergraduate courses offer a guaranteed study abroad year as part of the degree.
The course duration is four years, with Year 3 spent studying abroad, before you return to Sussex for your final year.
Courses with a guaranteed year abroad include American Studies courses, on which you have the opportunity to study at over 50 North American universities.
You can apply to do a summer school at one of our international partners, over the summer following Year 1 or Year 2 of your degree course.
These are normally three to six weeks long.
Summer Schools attended by previous students have been in China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Czech.
Contact our Study Abroad team for more information
You'll apply for a place through the Study Abroad team , usually the year before you are planning to go abroad.
For example, if you're planning to study abroad in between your second and third year of study at Sussex, you apply for a place at your chosen partner university at the start of Year 2.
The Study Abroad team run regular events about studying abroad and can help you decide which partner university is best for you.
Find out about tuition fee, grants and funding, and insurance cover for your time studying abroad.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting-and-finance-bsc:
This course starts in September 2026
Start in the academic year 2025/26 instead?
Accounting and Finance BSc (Hons)
The global economy is in constant flux.
Businesses need professionals who can navigate financial challenges and maintain financial health.
On this BSc, you’ll develop the skills for a successful career.
Accredited by five industry accounting bodies, this course can accelerate your journey to membership of the accounting profession, with exemptions from some exams.
Join the University of Sussex Business School, where leading academics are shaping policy and practice.
You’ll benefit from our culture of research excellence in areas such as climate finance, crypto assets, and social and environmental accounting and reporting.
By studying at Sussex, you will:
Throughout your studies, you’ll explore the risks and interdependencies of the modern global economy.
You’ll engage with real-world exercises, with supervision from academics and industry experts.
You’ll also have access to facilities including our Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab.
With options in leadership and entrepreneurship, you can broaden your knowledge while boosting your employability.
Additionally, our Academic Success Advisers can help you to develop your study skills.
You can also gain practical experience through professional and study abroad opportunities.
Accounting and finance professionals are in high demand.
You’ll graduate with the skills to succeed in areas ranging from corporate finance to public accounting.
With a solid foundation in financial principles, you’ll be able to make strategic decisions and help businesses grow.
You’ll join the EQUIS and AMBA-accredited University of Sussex Business School.
Learn more about all of our course accreditations here.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision.
We’ll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities described in this prospectus.
However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to government or regulatory requirements, or unanticipated staff changes, we’ll let you know as soon as possible.
ABB
Not everyone has the same support to get to higher education – we help you reach your potential.
When we receive applications through UCAS, we consider all factors and will sometimes make contextual offers as part of our Access and Participation Plan
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 6 (or grade B).
We will also consider applicants with grade 5 in Maths if you are taking A-level Accounting, Business, Chemistry, Economics, Maths, Physics, Psychology, an LIBF Diploma in Financial Studies or Level 3 Certificate in Core Maths (grade B) .
AAT accounting qualifications can be used as an alternative to the grade 6 GCSE Maths requirement.
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs grade 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
We take the EPQ into account when considering your application and it can be useful in the summer when your results are released if you have narrowly missed the conditions of your offer.
We do not routinely include the EPQ in the conditions of your offer but we sometimes offer alternative conditions that include the EPQ.
If you wish to discuss this further please contact us
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 24 credits at Distinction
In a relevant area.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 6 (or grade B).
M1 M2 M2
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade A at A-level and, M2 and M2 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades AB at A-level and M2 in Pre-U.
32 points overall from the full IB Diploma.
Grade B in A-level and Distinction, Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades BB in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
DDD
Diploma would normally be Business related.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 6 (or grade B).
AABBB
You will need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade B.
Pass T-Level with an overall grade of Distinction including grade B in the Core Component
Accounting, Finance, Management and Administration, Digital Business Services, Digital Support Services, Digital Production, Design and Development, Science, Design and Development for Engineering and Manufacturing
ABB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade B (or grade 6 in the new grading scale).
We will also consider applicants with grade B/5 in Maths if you are taking A-level Accounting, Business, Chemistry, Economics, Maths, Physics, Psychology, an LIBF Diploma in Financial Studies or Level 3 Certificate in Core Maths (grade B).
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs A*-C (9-4), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Overall result of at least 77%.
You must have a good level of Mathematics.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 88% or better in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER,  or a Queensland OP of 4 or better.
Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of between 2.0 or better for first-year entry.
Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur (CESS) or Diploma van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs with a good overall average of 65% or more.
Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis.
Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with excellent final-year scores (normally 5.5 overall with 6 in key subjects).
Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 75% from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses.
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AABBB from 5 grade 12 courses.
We also recognise the High School Diploma from other provinces -including Alberta, Manitoba, New Brunswick- where we look for strong performance in grade 12 subjects, and the Diplome d'Etudes Collegiales (DEC) from Quebec.
If you have the Goakao, we will consider applications for direct entry to first year.
You would normally need an overall average of 75%, including required subjects.
We are also pleased to consider applications if you are following a recognised International Foundation Year or you have one or more years of Higher Education in China at a recognised degree awarding institution.
The Senior High School Graduation alone would not be sufficient for entry to our undergraduate degrees, but you may be eligible to apply for our International Foundation Year .
If you successfully complete an International Foundation Year, you can progress on to a relevant undergraduate course at Sussex.
Check which qualifications the International Study Centre accepts for the International Foundation Year.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of 4.2
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average of 18.5/20 will be considered for first-year entry.
Maturita with a very good overall average.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or Studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 7 on the new grading scale.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result of EMMM or better
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of 13/20.
German Abitur with an overall result of 2.0 or better.
Apolytirion with an overall average of 18.5 will be considered for first-year entry.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 4, 4 from three subjects including two electives.
You must have a good level of Mathematics; you will need a score of 3 in Core Mathematics.
Erettsegi/Matura with a good average of at least 55544.
Standard XII results for entry into 1st year (depending on board and course choice):
We will also consider students for entry into our integrated foundation years with 60+%
We expect to see good Maths results achieved throughout your secondary education.
Where direct entry is unsuitable, we'll automatically consider you for one of our Foundation Years.
Or you might want to apply to one of our International Foundation Years at the international Study Centre on Campus.
Visit isc.sussex.ac.uk/our-courses/international-foundation-year or www.sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/foundation-years
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H2,H2,H3,H3
You must have at least grade O3 in Mathematics.
For first year entry at least 80% (or 8/10) in at least 6 subjects, including one 5 unit subject, in one sitting of the Bagrut.
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of 81/100.
Applicants with Nazarbayev Intellectuals Schools (NIS) Grade 12 Certificate may be considered.
The grades in the offer will match the published A level requirements for each course.
Where courses have specific subject requirements, these will be expected to be studied at Advanced level.
Atestats par Visparejo videjo Izglitibu with very good grades in state exams.
Brandos Atestatas including scores of 80% in at least three state examinations (other than English).
Pass the Diplome de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with 46 points overall.
at least Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of BBB, Matriculation with a least a grade of 3.0 or UEC with an overall average grade B4 (70%) from 6 subjects.
Voorereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), normally with an average of at least 7.
You are expected to have one of the following:
You must also have a score of C6 or above in WAEC/SSC English.
Norwegian Vitnemal Fra Den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of 4.
You can apply for direct entry to Year 1 if you are completing at least two years of Bachelor degree studies.
You'll normally need to complete a Foundation year after taking Intermediate Certificate or the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC).
You might choose one of our International Foundation Years at the International Study Centre on campus.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 75th percentile.
Please note: Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 17/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.5
Applicants who have good grades in the Attestat o Srednem Obrazovami (Certificate of Secondary Education) and who have successfully completed the first year of a Russian University degree, with a minimum GPA of 4.0, will be considered for admission to the first year of our bachelor’s degree courses.
A-levels, as well as certain certificates and diplomas.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average above 1.8 from 4 subjects.
Please note: Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis.
Secondary School Leaving Diploma or Matura with at least 23 points overall.
National Senior Certificate with very good grades.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of 8.0.
Sri Lankan A-levels.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects.
Federal Maturity Certificate.
We'll consider students who have taken the Lise Diplomasi or Lise Bitirme, with a score of at least 4/5 or 80/100 in their final year, on a case by case basis for direct entry to year 1.
We look at your full profile considering everything you are studying, including the High School Graduation Diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests and subject tests and/or ACT grades and AP tests.
We expect to see a combination of these qualifications.
Alongside your High School Graduation Diploma, we would ideally like to see 3 good AP scores with either, a combined SAT test score (evidence-based reading and writing and mathematics) of 1300, or a combined ACT score of 26
AP and SAT Subject tests
Please check the individual course pages for our typical A-level offer and see below for the corresponding scores we would require from AP test scores:
A Level requirements
AP test grades
AAA
555
AAB
554
544
BBB
444
We will also accept a combination of any 3 AP tests and SAT subject test where a score of 600 in an SAT subject test can be substituted for an AP test in the above table
If you are applying for a degree with an A level subject requirement in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry or Biology will normally need to hold an AP test in that subject.
College level credits
We also accept college level 3-credit courses in academic subjects as the equivalent of a UK A Level on a case by case basis.
These can be combined with AP tests and or SAT subject tests
Associate degrees
An Associate degree with a GPA of 3.0 will meet our entry requirements for year 1.
Foundation Year entry
Students who have a High School Diploma and SAT or ACT tests only would be eligible to apply for our Foundation Year
If your qualifications aren’t listed or you have a question about entry requirements, contact us
6.0 overall, including at least 5.5 in each component
Check your IELTS qualification meets all of our language requirements
Find out more about IELTS
IELTS scores are valid for two years from the test date.
You cannot combine scores from more than one sitting of the test.
Your score must be valid when you begin your Sussex course.
We accept IELTS One Skills Retake.
169 overall, including at least 162 in each skill
Check your Cambridge Advanced Certificate in English (CAE) qualification meets all of our language requirements
Find out more about Cambridge English: Advanced.
We would normally expect the CAE test to have been taken within two years before the start of your course.
Check your Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE) qualification meets all of our language requirements
Find out more about Cambridge English: Proficiency.
We would normally expect the CPE test to have been taken within two years before the start of your course.
59 overall, including at least 59 in all four skills.
Check your Pearson (PTE Academic) qualification meets all of our language requirements
Find out more about Pearson (PTE Academic).
Please refer to our English language requirements above, and as listed for each of our undergraduate courses , to find the appropriate English level for the course you are applying for.
PTE (Academic) scores are valid for two years from the test date.
We do not accept the PTE Academic Online test.
80 overall, including at least 17 in Listening, 18 in Reading, 20 in Speaking, 17 in Writing.
Check your TOEFL qualification meets all of our language requirements
Find out more about TOEFL (iBT) .
TOEFL (iBT) scores are valid for two years from the test date.
The TOEFL Institution Code for the University of Sussex is 9166.
Grade C or above in English Language.
Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE)/ AS or A Level: grade C or above in Use of English
Grade C or above in English.
Brunei/Cambridge GCE O-level in English: grades 1-6.
Singapore/Cambridge GCE O-level in English: grades 1-6.
Grade C or above in English as a First Language (grade 4 or above in GCSE from 2017).
Grade B or above in English as a Second Language (grade 6 or above in GCSE from 2017).
If awarded before 1993: grades 1-6 in English language.
If awarded between 1993 and 2005: grades A-D in English language.
Level 4, including at least 3 in each component in English Language.
The Indian School Certificate is accepted at the grades below when awarded by the following examination boards:
Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) – English Core only: 70%
Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) - English: 70% or Grade 3
English A or English B at grade 5 or above.
Grades A – C in English
If taken before the end of 2008: grades 1-5 in English Language.
If taken from 2009 onwards: grade C or above in English Language.
The qualification must be jointly awarded by the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES).
Grades 1-6 in English language when awarded by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) or the National Examinations Council (NECO).
If you are a national of one of the countries below, or if you have recently completed a qualification equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree or higher in one of these countries, you will normally meet our English requirements.
Note that qualifications obtained by distance learning or awarded by studying outside these countries cannot be accepted for English language purposes.
You will normally be expected to have completed the qualification within two years before starting your course at Sussex.
If the qualification was obtained earlier than this we would expect you to be able to demonstrate that you have maintained a good level of English, for example by living in an English-speaking country or working in an occupation that required you to use English regularly and to a high level.
Please note that this list is determined by the UK’s Home Office, not by the University of Sussex.
** Canada: you must be a national of Canada; other nationals not on this list who have a degree from a Canadian institution will not normally be exempt from needing to provide evidence of English.
If you don’t meet the English language requirements for your degree, you may be able to take a pre-sessional course
Yes.
Find out more about transferring into Year 2 of this course .
We don’t accept transfers into the third or final year.
For details on any additional costs, check out the Fees and scholarships section.
If you don't meet our entry requirements, we recommend our in-house Foundation Year course to prepare you for Year 1 of your chosen degree:
This is a single-honours course, allowing you to focus in depth on your core subject.
Find out about our types of undergraduate degrees, their structure, modules and credits
Core modules are taken by all students on the course.
They give you a solid grounding in your chosen subject and prepare you to explore the topics that interest you most.
We regularly review our modules to incorporate student feedback, staff expertise, as well as the latest research and teaching methodology.
We’re planning to run these
						modules in the academic year 2025/26.
However, there may be changes to these modules in response to feedback, staff availability, student demand or updates to
						our curriculum.
We’ll make sure to let you know of any material changes to modules at the earliest opportunity.
We’ll do our best to provide as much optional choice as we can, but timetabling constraints mean it may not be possible to take some module combinations.
The structure
						of a small number of courses means that the order of modules or the streams you choose may determine whether modules are core or optional.
This means that your core modules or
						options may differ from what’s shown here.
Check back in January 2026 for more details of the modules running in the academic year 2026/27.
Alongside your core modules, you can choose options to broaden your horizons and tailor your course to your interests.
This list gives you a flavour of our
						options, which are kept under review and may change, for example in response to student feedback or the latest research.
While it’s our aim for students to take their preferred combinations of options, this can’t be guaranteed and will be subject to timetabling.
Options may be
					grouped and if so, students will be able to choose a set number of options from the selection available in any particular group.
Apply to study abroad – you’ll develop an international perspective and gain an edge when it comes to your career.
Find out where your course could take you
If your application to study abroad is successful, you’ll have to meet the academic requirements at Sussex and also at the partner university.
Find out more about studying abroad as a Sussex student
To help you gain experience and increase your employability, you can apply for an optional placement as part of your course.
If you’re successful in obtaining a placement, this will form part of your course.
Find out more about placements and internships
Recent students have gone on placement at:
For more details, visit Business and Management: Placements
Please note that if you’re receiving – or applying for – USA federal Direct Loan funds, you can’t transfer to the version of your course with an optional study abroad period in any country or optional placement in the USA if the number of credits for the placement/internship exceeds 25% of the total credits for your course.
Find out more about American Student Loans and Federal Student Aid
Do you want to develop your entrepreneurial skills, and explore business or a social enterprise start-up?
As a University of Sussex Business School undergraduate on this course, you can apply to take a Venture Creation Year.
During the Venture Creation Year, you’ll set up and run your own start-up or social enterprise.
This will help you gain practical skills and experience.
You’ll have the University’s support throughout the year, including:
For more details, visit Business School: Venture Creation Year
Please note that you can’t take two experience years or combine them.
Selection for the Venture Creation Year is competitive and there’s a limited number of places available.
Due to visa restrictions on business activity, international students studying on a Tier 4 Student visa cannot take part in the Venture Creation Year.
However, all students can participate in Careers and Entrepreneurship workshops, get one-to-one guidance, and continue to develop their ideas.
The student experience and student outcomes are typically very high quality.
This rating was awarded in 2023, for four years.
( Teaching Excellence Framework 2023 )
Find out more about our approach to teaching and supporting you to thrive
Associate Professor in Accounting
View profile of Sami Adwan
Assistant Professor
View profile of Claire Edwards
Assistant Professor in Accounting
View profile of Angela Gao
View profile of Seun Osituyo
Professor of Accounting
View profile of Hans Van Der Heijden
Associate Professor in Accountancy
View profile of Matthew Walsh
Fees are not yet set for the academic year 2026/27 – please check back in September 2025.
Note that your fees, once they’re set, may be subject to an increase on an annual basis.
Find out about typical living costs for studying at Sussex
Find out about our terms and conditions
Details of our scholarships are not yet set for entry in the academic year 2026/27.
of Sussex undergraduates have completed work experience by the end of their course (University of Sussex Career Readiness data at point of graduation 2023/24)
Join the University of Sussex Business School and benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring by employers, networking, guest lectures and development of your workplace skills.
This course is ideal if you want to become a chartered accountant or financial analyst, and for careers in accountancy, finance and management, in both the public and private sector.
Your degree opens employment opportunities worldwide because your professional accounting qualifications are recognised internationally.
You develop ethical awareness, independent thinking, leadership, self-confidence, and problem-solving and teamwork skills.
Our Careers and Entrepreneurship team can help you find part-time work while you study.
Find out more about career development and part-time work
Taking the next step in your career can feel daunting, but we’ll help you to explore, connect and flourish throughout your studies and beyond.
As a Sussex student, you’ll learn how to tackle real-world challenges and have access to tailored programmes of careers support:
Explore how our Careers and Entrepreneurship team can support you
Winner Entrepreneurship Catalyst Award National Enterprise Educator Awards 2024
Winner Supporting Student and Graduate Employability Award AGCAS Awards for Excellence 2024
Top 50 Best Universities for Work Experience in the UK 2025 RateMyPlacement Awards
BCC
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 15 credits at Distinction
Grade C in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades BC in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
DMM
Pass T-Level with an overall grade of Merit including grade B in the Core Component
Chat to Sussex students online via the UniBuddy chat platform.
Contact us with any questions about your course.
+44 (0)1273 876787 Ask us a question
Find out more about the Department of Accounting and Finance
Experience Sussex life in our virtual tour.
Start your virtual tour

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting-and-finance-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Accounting and Finance (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
On this BSc, you’ll develop the skills for a successful career.
This can be a fantastic opportunity to gain real-life insight into industry as well as skills valued by employers.
Our dedicated careers team can help you:
Don’t worry if you’re not successful, you’ll simply transfer to a non-placement version of your course.
Our careers team offers dedicated support to help you obtain a placement, including:
Don’t worry if you’re not successful in securing a placement, you’ll simply transfer to a non-placement version of your course.
Please note that if you’re receiving – or applying for – USA federal Direct Loan funds, you can’t undertake your placement in the USA if the number of credits for the placement/internship exceeds 25% of the total credits for your course.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/banking-and-digital-finance-bsc:
Banking and Digital Finance BSc (Hons)
Gain the specialised skills and cutting-edge knowledge today’s employers are looking for.
On this BSc, you’ll gain in-depth applied finance skills to thrive in a digitally advanced workplace.
You will:
You can also use our Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab to take part in real-time financial and trading simulation.
Supervised by academic and industry experts, you can tailor your degree to meet your career goals.
Choose options ranging from data analytics to climate finance and environmental and ethical funds.
Our Academic Success Advisers can help you with academic study skills.
You can also choose to spend time in the workplace or studying abroad.
If you don't have the required language skills for this course you could consider the International Study Centre.
The ISC offers a range of foundation courses in combination with English language teaching.
Associate Professor in Finance
View profile of Mostak Ahamed
Professor of Finance
View profile of Carol Alexander
Assistant Professor in Finance
View profile of Xi Chen
View profile of Ranko Jelic
Associate Professor in Banking and FinTech
View profile of Malgorzata Sulimierska
View profile of Madina Tash
At the University of Sussex Business School you benefit from extensive career support and business connections including mentoring by employers, networking and guest lectures.
On this degree, you develop fundamental knowledge in applied finance, as well as the digital skills required by the banking and finance sector.
As a graduate, you’ll be equipped with the perfect combination of skills and knowledge employers are looking for – including ethical awareness, independent thinking, leadership, self-confidence and teamwork.
You’ll be well prepared to work in:
The University campus is just one hour from London, so you can take advantage of our strong links with the financial hub in the City of London.
There are many student societies you can join, including the Sussex Investment and Trading Society, where you can try your hand at investing in the markets.
You can practise making informed business decisions, just as you might in your future workplace.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/banking-and-digital-finance-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Banking and Digital Finance (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
You can apply to take a paid professional placement in the third year of your degree.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business-management-and-economics-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
“ Foundation Year courses are a brilliant opportunity for students to fulfil their potential while they’re learning the skills required by a top university like Sussex .”
By starting your studies at Sussex on our Foundation Year, you develop a wide-ranging understanding of the ways in which businesses work, as well as essential mathematical skills.
The Foundation Year prepares you to continue your undergraduate studies in the specialism of your choice – business and management, marketing, accounting, finance or economics.
Our experienced staff help you to develop the academic knowledge and practical skills you’ll need to succeed throughout your degree and in your future career.
Successfully completing your Foundation Year guarantees that you'll be able to continue onto your choice of degree from a wide range of subjects in the University of Sussex Business School.
We welcome students with a broad range of backgrounds and experiences, including:
You will need to demonstrate your potential to do well on a demanding degree, including the potential to succeed in your chosen discipline.
The following sets out some of the most common academic qualifications.
However, each application is reviewed on its individual strengths and merits.
CCD
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
In addition, you will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade 4 or above (or grade C).
P1 P1 M3
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade C at A-level and, P1 and M3 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades CD at A-levels and M3 in Pre-U.
27 points overall from the full IB Diploma.
Grade C in A-level and Merit, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
Grades CC in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
MMM
Preferably Business related
CCCCC
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics grade C.
Pass T Level with overall grade Merit
CCC from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade C (or grade 4 in the new grading scale).
In addition, you will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade C or above.
70%
Evidence of a good level of mathematics.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and a least 75% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER.
Or a Queensland OP of 10 .
Evidence of your academic ability in essay-based humanities and social science and a good level of mathematics.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of 2.7 or better.
Evidence of your academic ability in essay-based humanities and social science  and a good level of mathematics.
Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with excellent final-year scores (normally 4 overall with good grades in key subjects).
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 60% from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation BCCCC from 5 grade 12 courses
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of 3.4 overall
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average of 15/20
Pass in the Maturita with a score of 3 or better in each subject.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or studentereksamen with a good overall average.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result between MMMM - EMMM
French Baccalauréat with overall final result between 12/20 and 13/20.
German Abitur with an overall result of 2.5 or better.
Apolytirion with an overall average of a least 15/20
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 4,3,3 from three subjects including two electives.
Erettsegi/Matura with a good average
Evidence of academic ability in essay-based humanities and social science subjects.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H3 H3 H3 H4 H4.
You must have at least grade O4 in Mathematics.
We assess all applications on a case-by-case basis.
Italian Diploma di Maturità or Diploma Pass di Esame di Stato with a Final Diploma mark of at least 71.
Pass Atestats par Visparejo videjo Izglitibu with an overall average of 60% from 4 final state/school exams.
You must also have a good level of Mathematics.
Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires.
Voorereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO).
Norwegian Vitnemal den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of at least 3.5.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 65th percentile.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 14/20
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 7 to 7.5
Maturitna Skuska or Maturita with honours.
Secondary School Leaving Diploma or Matura.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of  6.5.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include C grades in the majority of subjects.
Please note: Foundation Year courses are not eligible for USA federal Direct Loan
funds.
Successfully completing your Foundation Year means you’re able to take a range of degrees at Sussex.
The current list of courses available is:
Grade D in A-level and Merit, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades CD in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
MMP
Pass T Level with overall grade Pass, including grade C in the Core component

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-finance-bsc:
Economics and Finance BSc (Hons)
Develop the advanced skills and knowledge in economics and finance essential for a career in financial services.
You’ll study economics and finance at both macroeconomics and microeconomics levels, while developing your understanding of economic principles through more advanced topics such as trade and risk.
You’ll choose from a wide range of specialist options, gaining a high level of expertise in areas such as labour economics, energy and commodity finance, public economics and trading strategies.
You can also b oost your employability with an option to study abroad or apply for a professional placement year.
In Economics, you are introduced to the principles and their application to a range of practical and topical issues.
You also study mathematics, statistics and econometrics, gaining important quantitative skills.
You progress to advanced issues such as trade, global imbalances and financial crises.
In Finance, you cover concepts such as discounting and bond pricing.
There is an emphasis on financial markets and institutions.
This includes a study of corporate finance and risk management.
You also benefit from having an Academic Success Adviser who can help you with academic study skills including critical thinking, presenting, academic writing and note-making.
This is a joint-honours course, offering you a combinations of subjects, each taking up 50% of your time.
Recent students have gone on placements at:
Professor of Economics
View profile of Sambit Bhattacharyya
Emeritus Associate Professor
View profile of Frank Brouwer
Assistant Professor in Economics
View profile of Shilan Dargahi
View profile of Matteo Madotto
Reader in Economics
View profile of C.
Rashaad Shabab
View profile of Faek Menla Ali
You will develop your ethical awareness, independent thinking, leadership, problem-solving and teamwork skills.
You can become an economist, or work in: corporate or public-sector accounting and finance; management consultancy and financial services; investment banking, risk analysis and insurance.
Away from your studies, e conomics students run an active student society that invites guest speakers and organises events, bringing together economics students with those from other courses who share an interest in economics.
You can also join the Sussex Trading Society and try your hand at investing in the markets, and the re is a thriving Business Society.
You are based in the University of Sussex Business School where you benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring by employers and alumni, networking, guest lectures and the development of your workplace skills.
The School is home to the renowned UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO), one of the most trusted voices in the analysis of the UK’s trading future after Brexit.
You can also use the Bloomberg Lab, located in the University of Sussex Business School, where you can access real-time data from the Bloomberg Professional services platform.
Find out more about the Department of Economics

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/finance-and-business-bsc:
Finance and Business BSc (Hons)
In our globalised economy, understanding the financial implications of business strategy is crucial.
This degree will enable you to inform strategic direction through data and insights.
Join the EQUIS- and AMBA-accredited University of Sussex Business School, where leading academics are shaping policy and practice.
You'll benefit from our culture of research excellence in business areas such as digital marketing, strategic management, and entrepreneurial innovation.
You'll also benefit from our research in finance areas such as climate finance and crypto assets.
You’ll also have access to state-of-the-art facilities, including our Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab.
Here you can conduct research projects and improve your trading skills.
Throughout your studies, you’ll explore areas of finance including corporate finance, financial institutions, markets, derivative products and banking.
In business, you’ll explore aspects of the global business world, entrepreneurship, leadership and management processes.
You’ll also learn and apply analytical techniques such as statistics and mathematics for finance and economics.
Our Academic Success Advisers can help you to further develop your study skills.
Additionally, you can gain practical experience through professional and study abroad opportunities.
When you graduate, you’ll be prepared to enter a range of sectors.
You might explore investment, retail banking, management, consultancy and public relations (PR).
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 5 (or grade B).
For more information, visit Business and Management: Placements
View profile of Oussama Baher
You learn the fundamentals of finance while keeping a door open to a career in any business sector.
You develop core knowledge in finance and business, ethical awareness, independent thinking, leadership, self-confidence as well as problem-solving and teamwork skills.
You will be well prepared to work in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/finance-and-business-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Finance and Business (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
On the Finance and Business BSc, you develop an in-depth understanding of modern financial markets alongside the essential management skills you'll need in your career.
You study diverse aspects of finance, business and management, economics and accounting, gaining an essential understanding of the context within which business is conducted today.
You also have the opportunity to apply for a year in industry where you can gain professional experience and put your knowledge into practice.
In Finance, you focus on corporate finance, financial institutions, markets, derivative products and banking.
In Business, you cover the different aspects of the global business world, entrepreneurship, leadership and the processes of management.
You also build your knowledge of analytical techniques to apply throughout your course, including statistics and mathematics for finance and economics.
While broadening your knowledge of finance and business, you can tailor your degree to suit your desired career path through a wide range of options including blockchain finance, cryptocurrency markets, entrepreneurship, global supply chain, law and ethics.
Y ou have access to our Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab if you’re interested in improving your trading skills or conducting your own research project.
You also have the opportunity to apply for a term studying abroad.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/finance-and-technology-fintech-bsc:
Finance and Technology (FinTech) BSc (Hons)
Gain the financial technology (FinTech) skills essential for a career in tomorrow’s financial institutions.
With developments in computing continuing to accelerate, understanding their applications to financial markets will make you highly employable in a variety of industries.
The BSc offers you the opportunity to gain experience at the cutting edge between finance and computer science.
You’ll develop quantitative and analytical skills as well as your coding and programming capabilities.
You have access to our Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab, located in the Business School, and to Thomson Reuters service platforms.
This allows you to take part in real-time financial and trading simulation, supervised by academic and industry experts.
This joint degree prepares you for employment in the exciting and growing FinTech industry as well as in traditional financial services and IT.
You benefit from having an Academic Success Adviser who can help you with academic study skills including critical thinking, presenting, academic writing and note-making.
You can also boost your employability with an option to study abroad, or apply for a professional placement year.
We’ve made some updates to the course to make your degree as relevant as possible.
For details of the course changes, have a look at our table of change.
Find the latest information on your modules and course structure below.
Associate Professor
View profile of Anh Vu
Associate Professor in Machine Learning and Data Science
View profile of Adam Barrett
Reader in Software Engineering
View profile of Natalia Beloff
Assistant Professor in Computer Science & AI
View profile of Benjamin Evans
Assistant Professor in Theoretical Computer Science
View profile of Hsi-Ming Ho
View profile of Jeff Mitchell
View profile of Ivor Simpson
Professor in Artificial Intelligence
View profile of Julie Weeds
This course prepares you for roles in the exciting and growing industry known as financial technology (FinTech), where there are opportunities in banks, consultancies, investment companies, asset management companies, stock brokerage firms and peer-to-peer lending companies.
This course will also enable you to work in traditional finance and software engineering industries.
Outside the classroom you can get careers advice and develop your key skills further by joining our FinTech and Banking Society, and the Sussex Investment and Trading Society where you can attend events including:
The Sussex campus is just one hour away from London, enabling you to take advantage of our strong links with the financial hub in the City of London.
This course will enable you to secure jobs including:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/finance-and-technology-fintech-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Finance and Technology (FinTech) (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
With this course, you have the opportunity to apply for a year in industry where you can put your knowledge into practice.
We have a wide range of well-established partnerships including local, London-based and international companies.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-finance-bsc:
Mathematics with Finance BSc (Hons)
If you’re passionate about mathematics and also want to explore how to succeed in today’s financial industries, this course is for you.
You’ll build on your core knowledge of pure and applied mathematics and statistics, while discovering the world of mathematics tailored to financial analysis.
You’ll learn from experts in both disciplines.
Our modules are based on the latest research.
You’ll experience contemporary concepts in mathematics and gain a solid grounding in how they apply outside of the classroom.
Early on in your degree you take core modules, preparing you for your third year when you choose from a variety of options including:
You’ll develop your analytical and modelling skills using industry-standard software such as MATLAB, Python and R.
Academic advisers support you throughout and you’ll have lots of opportunities to engage with potential employers.
You’ll also have a dedicated careers adviser.
Our graduates have gone to work in a range of industries including:
You’ll graduate with the skills needed for success in the financial sector.
You’ll gain experience in analysing large data sets, coding and team working.
You’ll also have the opportunity to apply for a placement, where you can gain experience working with a company.
The Department of Mathematics is a close-knit community where you’ll get to know your lecturers.
Their dedication and support will help you to get the most from your degree.
We also offer this course as a four-year MMath .
Find out about the benefits of an integrated Masters year.
ABB, including grade A in Mathematics.
A-levels must include Mathematics, see individual offers for grades needed.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs grade 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
You will need A-level Mathematics, with at least grade A, in addition to the Access to HE Diploma.
You must have either Mathematics at A-level, with at least grade A or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject at M1.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs  grades 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Higher Levels must include Mathematics, with a grade of 6.
For entry, either Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches or Mathematics: Applications and Interpretation at Higher Level will be accepted.
Grade A in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
You will need an A-level in Mathematics.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Grades AB in A-levels including grade A in Mathematics and Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
You will need an A-level in Mathematics
Highers must include Mathematics, grade A.
Ideally, you will also have an Advanced Higher in Mathematics (grade A).
A-levels must include Mathematics at grade A.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs grade A*-C (9-4), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics to a high level is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.0).
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics to a high level is essential.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with a final result of at least 14/20 in Mathematics.
You will need a very good final result in Mathematics (at least 12/15) at a high level.
Apolytirion with an overall average of between 18 and 18.5 will be considered for first-year entry.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Mathematics with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in Mathematics with an overall score of 17.
You must have some advanced/higher level ability in Mathematics, and will need to complete both the Compulsory and Extended Mathematics components.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics at a high level is essential.
Highers must include Mathematics, grade H1.
Evidence of existing academic ability at a high level in Mathematics is essential.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects including Mathematics in the 75th percentile.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.0 and 8.5 including a score of 8 in Mathematics.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects including Mathematics.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade B in Mathematics.
What is International Development?
from University of Sussex on Vimeo .
Madiha: My favourite thing about my course is problem-solving.
And, I really love it because I get to do it every day.
Then also before coming here when I saw that I have so many things to do in my career, like, I can go for banking, financial things, IT, data analysis, so many things to do.
And yeah, I'm really looking forward for that.
This is a major/minor course, enabling you to study in depth in a core area (your major subject: taking up 75% of your time), while also exploring an additional area (your minor subject: taking up 25% of your time).
In your first year, you’ll explore the basics of mathematics and finance.
Teaching methods typically include:
70%: Lecture 13%: Seminar 17%: Practical
Assessment methods typically include:
23%: Coursework 77%: Examination
This year of study includes approximately 1,200 hours of work.
This breaks down into about 264 hours of contact time and about 936 hours of independent study.
Engage and actively participate throughout your studies to get the most out of your course.
In Year 2, you’ll continue exploring foundations in mathematics and finance, and add probability and statistics.
83%: Lecture 13%: Seminar 4%: Practical
24%: Coursework 76%: Examination
We are a core part of the SEPnet (South East Physics Network) consortium, which gives us links to universities and industries across the region.
SEPnet’s Employer Programme creates opportunities for our students to apply for funded summer placements .
In Year 3, you’ll have the opportunity to develop your employability skills working on your project.
And you can choose the topics that interest you most from a range of options.
74%: Lecture 19%: Seminar 7%: Practical
24%: Coursework 62%: Examination 1%: Practical 13%: Written assessment
Honarary Senior Lecturer in Finance
View profile of Michael Coulon
Professor of Probability Theory and Applications
View profile of Nicos Georgiou
Associate Professor in Mathematics
View profile of Gabriel Koch
Honorary Senior Lecturer
View profile of Mike Osborne
Head of School - Mathematical and Physical Sciences
View profile of Vanessa Styles
Emeritus Reader
View profile of Qi Tang
Assistant Professor in Mathematics
View profile of Michael Taylor
Associate Professor In Mathematics
View profile of Chandrasekhar Venkataraman
Reader in Statistics and Probability
View profile of Vladislav Vysotskiy
View profile of Minmin Wang
You can be confident that our courses provide you with the necessary skills and experience to secure employment or further studies with some of the world’s leading institutions.
Y ou’ll have a wide range of paid work opportunities within the Department – from teaching and research opportunities in the summer, to outreach roles throughout the year.
There are plenty of opportunities for you to develop your careers skills, including:
Our graduates go onto a range of careers in finance and accounting, banking and investment, risk analysis and insurance.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Mathematics
BCC, including grade B in Mathematics.
Grade B in A-level and Merit, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades BC in A-levels and Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Find out more about the Department of Mathematics

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-finance-mmath:
Mathematics with Finance MMath
If you’re passionate about mathematics and also want to explore today’s financial industries, this integrated Masters course is for you.
The course is particularly relevant if you’re interested in a career in research at a university or in industry.
Early on in your degree you take core modules.
In your third year, you choose from a variety of options including:
You’ll grow your research skills in Year 4, preparing for an advanced research project.
You’ll graduate with the skills needed for success in research or in the financial sector.
We also offer this course as a three-year BSc .
AAB, including grade A in Mathematics.
D3, M1 and M2 in the Pre-U
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade A in the A-level and D3 and M1 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades AA in the two A-levels and D3 in the Pre-U.
You must have Mathematics (grade A) or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject in Mathematics with a D3.
34 points overall from the full IB Diploma.
Grades AB in A-levels and Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
AAABB
AAB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
A-levels or the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate must include Mathematics grade A.
Overall result of at least 80%
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics to the highest level is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8).
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 92% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 3 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of 1.8 or better for first-year entry.
Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur (CESS) or Diploma van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs with a good overall average.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 75% from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AAABB from 5 grade 12 courses We also recognise the High School Diploma from other provinces -including Alberta, Manitoba, New Brunswick- where we look for strong performance in grade 12 subjects, and the Diplome d'Etudes Collegiales (DEC) from Quebec.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of 4.5
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average of 19/20 and above will be considered for first-year entry.
Maturita with a good overall average.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or Studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 7-10 on the new grading scale.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result of at least EEMM
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of at least 14/20.
German Abitur with an overall result of 1.8 or better.
You will need a very good final result in Mathematics (at least 14/15) at a high level.
Apolytirion with an overall average of at least 19 will be considered for first-year entry.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 5, 4 from three subjects including two electives
Erettsegi/Matura with a good average of at least 55555.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H1,H2,H2,H3.
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of 85/100.
Brandos Atestatas including scores of 80-90% in at least three state examinations (other than English).
Pass the Diplome de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with 48 points overall
Voorereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), normally with an average of at least 8.
Norwegian Vitnemal Fra Den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of 4.5
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects including Mathematics in the 80th percentile.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 18/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.7 including a score of 8 in Mathematics
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including Mathematics.
Secondary School Leaving Diploma or Matura with at least 25 points overall.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of at least 8.0
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A and B grades in the majority of subjects
and to include grade A in Mathematics.
In your final year, you’ll focus on a research topic of your choice in your MMath project.
You’ll also choose options from a range of mathematical and financial modules.
This means you’ll have the opportunity to specialise in areas that interest you most, while also gaining a broad set of skills.
92%: Lecture 8%: Practical
8%: Coursework 36%: Examination 6%: Practical 50%: Written assessment
This breaks down into about 187 hours of contact time and about 1,013 hours of independent study.
BBB, including grade B in Mathematics.
Grades BC in A-levels plus Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate, including grade B in Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/american-studies-with-a-study-abroad-year-ba:
American Studies (with a study abroad year) BA (Hons)
Exploring the history, politics, literature and culture of the most powerful nation on earth develops your intellectual flexibility and adaptability, and also your cultural and political awareness in our US-dominated world.
With us, you’ll study on an interdisciplinary course, and learn to adapt, create and succeed in an ever-changing world.
You’ll:
Throughout your studies, we’ll help you develop your full potential and prepare you for the world beyond university.
When you graduate, you’ll be a confident and intellectually independent self-starter.
You’ll be well prepared for a wide range of jobs across many different sectors, from the cultural and media industries, to technology, education and the Civil Service.
Humanities or social sciences.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs A*-C (9-4), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and between 88% to 85% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER,  or a Queensland OP of 4 to 5 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of between 2.0 to 2.2 or better for first-year entry.
Good grades in subject areas.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 70%-75% from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses.
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AABBB-BBBBB from 5 grade 12 courses.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of between 4 and 4.2
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average of between 18/20 and 18.5/20 will be considered for first-year entry.
German Abitur with an overall result of 2.0 to 2.2 or better.
Apolytirion with an overall average of between 18 and 18.5 will be considered for first-year entry.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 4, 4 to 4, 4, 4 from three subjects including two electives.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H2,H2,H3,H3 to H2,H2,H2,H3,H3.
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of between 78/100 and 81/100.
Pass the Diplome de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with between 43-46 points overall.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark between 16/20 and 17/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.0 and 8.5
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average above 2.0 from 4 subjects.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result between 7.5 and 8.0.
We’re planning to run the modules listed below in the academic year 2026/27.
We’ve made some changes to keep the course fresh and future-facing.
Your American Studies journey begins!
Year 1 introduces you to interdisciplinarity.
It helps you develop foundational knowledge of American history, culture and politics.
You’ll start to work with different methodological approaches and materials including print, film and music.
And you’ll explore the real-world applications of your degree.
Teaching methods typically include lectures, seminars and workshops .
40%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 10%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include critical responses, essays, reports, presentations and professional-facing tasks .
100%: Coursework
This breaks down into about 250 hours of contact time and about 950 hours of independent study.
At Sussex, you can choose to customise your course to build the sort of degree that will give you the knowledge, skills and experience that could take you in any direction you choose.
As part of this degree, you explore subjects that are different to your course through electives that complement your main subject.
Exploring different disciplines in four electives across Years 1 and 2 helps enrich your learning experience .
Discover our electives
We’re planning to run these modules in the academic year 2026/27.
However, there may be changes to these modules in response to feedback, staff availability, student demand or updates to our curriculum.
The structure of a small number of courses means that the order of modules or the streams you choose may determine whether modules are core or optional.
This means that your core modules or options may differ from what’s shown here.
Check back in January 2026 for more module details.
Year 2 introduces you to analytical tools.
You’ll explore the concept of literary genre in American literature and examine American cities through an interdisciplinary lens.
Choosing options across history, art history, film studies and politics, you’ll have the opportunity to specialise in what interests you most.
This list gives you a flavour of our options, which are kept under review and may change, for example in response to student feedback or the latest research.
Options may be grouped and if so, students will be able to choose a set number of options from the selection available in any particular group.
You spend your third year studying at one of our US or Canadian partners’ campuses.
Our range of partner institutions represents every facet of the American experience, and includes:
Whether you are interested in Native American culture, the Civil Rights movement, or American modernist poetry, Sussex offers you a unique experience while studying in North America.
Please note that courses with a study abroad year are not eligible for USA federal Direct Loan funds.
In your final year, you’ll become an independent scholar.
You’ll build your knowledge and expertise, and explore your research interests and passions.
With our expert guidance and support, you’ll design and deliver a research project.
Associate Professor In American History
View profile of Anne-Marie Angelo
Associate Professor in English & American Literature
View profile of Natalia Cecire
Associate Professor in American History
View profile of Tom Davies
Assistant Professor in American History (Pre-1900)
View profile of Misha Ewen
Reader in American Literature and Visual Culture
View profile of Doug Haynes
Assistant Professor in American and Media Studies
View profile of Charlie Jeffries
Professor of American Literature and Philosophy
View profile of Michael Jonik
View profile of Katharina Rietzler
Professor Of Modern American History
View profile of Clive Webb
Associate Professor in Rhetoric
View profile of Tom F.
Wright
You gain skills in critical thinking across disciplines, attention to detail, flexibility of thought, self-confidence, teamwork, research and written communication.
Using the cultural and social insights from your year abroad, you can work in fields such as:
Our recent American Studies graduates work as:
Several of our American Studies students have obtained work experience in America through undertaking internships for academic credit.
These include internships with members of US Congress, The Fulbright Commission, and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund.
(School of Media, Arts and Humanities careers database)
Grades BC in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Find out about the Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/american-studies-and-english-with-a-study-abroad-year-ba:
American Studies and English (with a study abroad year) BA (Hons)
With us, you have the opportunity to combine your passion for American literature with your love of English literature.
On this radical, practical and inspiring inspiring course, you’ll:
When you graduate, you’ll be a confident and creative thinker.
You’ll have the analysis, communication and research skills employers are looking for.
You’ll be well prepared to flourish in a wide range of careers in sectors including media, culture, communications, education and public service.
40%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 5%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
Reader in English
View profile of Richard Adelman
Professor of Modernism and the Avant-Garde
View profile of Sara Crangle
Professor of Early Modern Studies
View profile of Matthew Dimmock
Associate Professor in Victorian Literature
View profile of Hannah Field
Associate Professor in 18th Century English Literature
View profile of Andrea Haslanger
Associate Professor in Creative and Critical Writing
View profile of Sam Ladkin
Associate Professor in World Literatures
View profile of John Masterson
Associate Professor in English Literature
View profile of Emma Newport
View profile of Rachel O'Connell
Professor of 18th Century Literature
View profile of Catherine Packham
Reader in English Literature
View profile of Chloe Porter
View profile of Samuel Solomon
Reader in Literature and Print Culture
View profile of Rachel Stenner
Professor of Poetics
View profile of Keston Sutherland
Professor of Modern and Contemporary Lit
View profile of Pamela Thurschwell
Associate Professor in Literature and Visual Culture
View profile of Hope Wolf
You learn a range of analytical and communication skills, and how to think critically across disciplines.
On your year abroad you’ll gain invaluable cultural and social perspectives.
As a result, you will be in demand in fields such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/american-studies-and-film-studies-with-a-study-abroad-year-ba:
American Studies and Film Studies (with a study abroad year) BA (Hons)
Whether you’re exploring the history, politics, literature and culture of the United States, or analysing the global impact of cinema and today’s audiovisual media, this course will give you the tools to think critically, communicate clearly and engage meaningfully with the world around you.
Our dynamic, interdisciplinary degree will prepare you for success in an ever-changing world.
Throughout your degree, you’ll learn to express complex ideas with confidence and creativity.
You’ll build the transferable skills needed to succeed in today’s fast-paced job market:
By the time you graduate, you’ll be a resilient, intellectually independent and adaptable problem-solver, ready to excel in a wide range of careers.
Whether you pursue opportunities in the cultural and media industries, marketing and communication, education, government or technology, your degree will give you the knowledge, confidence and experience to thrive.
It helps you develop the foundational knowledge of American history, culture and politics.
You’ll work on the essential skills and knowledge needed for a professional comprehension of film form and contexts.
You’ll engage with the fundamental processes of formal and critical analysis, as well as the histories of cinema development in Europe and internationally.
45%: Lecture 45%: Seminar 5%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
In Year 2, you’ll choose what interests you most from our exciting range of America-focused options.
This will set you up for your study abroad year in the US.
You’ll get to study your favourite film genres and think about some of the key issues cinema explores such as the climate.
There will also be a focus on applying your learned skills and starting to think about careers.
Your final year sees you become an independent scholar, as you build your knowledge and expertise.
You’ll follow your interests through research projects you design and deliver with the support and guidance of our experts, and an exciting range of options.
This year is all about refining your focus, and guiding the development of your future career and study plans.
Professor of Film Studies
View profile of Thomas Austin
Reader
View profile of Michael Lawrence
Professor of Screen Media
View profile of Alisa Lebow
View profile of Despoina Mantziari
View profile of Niall Richardson
Associate Professor in Film Studies
View profile of Luke Robinson
View profile of Frances Smith
Professor of Film
View profile of Dolores Tierney
View profile of Lawrence Webb
Our graduates are intellectually agile, highly skilled communicators who think critically across disciplines.
Your year abroad enhances these skills with invaluable cultural and social perspectives.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/american-studies-and-history-with-a-study-abroad-year-ba:
American Studies and History (with a study abroad year) BA (Hons)
With us, you have the opportunity to combine your passion for American culture and politics with deep historical understanding.
This degree offers an interesting perspective on the world’s most influential nation.
During your studies, you’ll:
Our strong links with partners in the heritage, arts, charity and media sectors help you gain experience.
This could include working in archives and collaborating on real-world projects.
Your versatile, career-ready skills in analysis, communication and research are a good preparation for roles in media, culture, communications, education or public service.
35%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 10%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
Professor of Modern History
View profile of Hester Barron
Professor of South Asian History
View profile of Vinita Damodaran
Professor of the History of Science
View profile of Jim Endersby
Professor Of Modern European History
View profile of Martin Evans
Professor of War and History
View profile of Martin Francis
Associate Professor in Middle East History
View profile of Hilary Kalmbach
Associate Professor in History
View profile of Jill Kirby
Associate Professor in Early Modern History
View profile of Laura Kounine
Associate Professor In Intellectual History
View profile of Iain McDaniel
View profile of Jacob Norris
Assistant Professor in Global History
View profile of Hana Qugana
Professor of Modern European History
View profile of Gideon Reuveni
Professor in Collaborative History
View profile of Lucy Robinson
View profile of Claudia Siebrecht
Professors (Research Faculty)
View profile of Katrin Steffen
Yossi Harel Chair In Modern Israel Studies
View profile of David Tal
View profile of Christopher Warne
Associate Professor Digital History/Archives
View profile of Sharon Webb
Associate Professor In History
View profile of Gerhard Wolf
By thinking critically across disciplines, you learn a broad range of analytical and communication skills.
These will be enhanced on your year abroad where you’ll gain invaluable cultural and social perspectives.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/american-studies-and-politics-with-a-study-abroad-year-ba:
American Studies and Politics (with a study abroad year) BA (Hons)
With us, you have the opportunity to combine your passion for American culture with your love of Politics.
On this exciting course, you’ll:
When you graduate, you’ll have the analysis, communication and research skills employers are looking for.
You’ll be well prepared for careers in areas such as politics and governance, NGOs, media, culture, communications, education and public service.
As a final-year student, you can apply for a competitive internship with a Westminster MP or in local government with Brighton & Hove City Council.
Aubrey Allegretti , experienced political journalist and current Chief Political Correspondent at The Times , is our Political Writer in Residence.
In this role, Sussex alumni Aubrey will deliver a number of writing workshops as well as a guest lecture for Politics students.
He will also judge a political blog writing competition, contribute to our student-run Sussex Politics blog, and organise work shadowing days in London.
This experience will give you the opportunity to develop your skills as a political writer and to become an outstanding political communicator.
Assistant Professor in Politics
View profile of Cristiano Bee
View profile of Stavroula Chrona
Associate Professor in Politics
View profile of Rekha Diwakar
View profile of Neil Dooley
Professor in Politics
View profile of James Hampshire
Professor of Politics
View profile of Dan Hough
Assistant Professor In Politics
View profile of Daniel Paget
View profile of Hannah Richter
Professor of British Studies
View profile of Emily Robinson
View profile of Aleks Szczerbiak
View profile of Paul Taggart
View profile of Paul Webb

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-with-american-studies-with-a-study-abroad-year-llb:
Law with American Studies (with a study abroad year) LLB (Hons)
In this LLB, you’ll develop your knowledge of the connection between US and UK legal systems.
You will also explore the history, politics, culture and literature of the Americas.
On your year abroad, you’ll experience a new culture and legal system first-hand.
We’re proud to have more prestigious American partner institutions – including UC Berkeley and Georgetown – than any other programme in England.
You’ll be taught by research-active faculty and become part of a vibrant community with an active student law body.
We have links with leading law firms, who sponsor our student competitions in national and international mooting, criminal advocacy, client interviewing, negotiation, mediation and legal debating .
We also have a supportive group of alumni providing career advice for current students.
This course satisfies the academic component of Bar training (subject to minimum pass marks and number of attempts).
This degree acts as a gateway to further qualification as both a solicitor and a barrister.
The Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE) must be taken by graduates wishing to become a solicitor.
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 27 credits at Distinction
The Access to HE Diploma should be in the Humanities, Social sciences or Business.
M1 M1 M2
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade B at A-level and, M1 and M1 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades AB at A-level and M1 in Pre-U.
A-level should be essay based.
Grades AB in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended diploma would normally be in Business, Health & Social Care, Public Services or Uniformed Protective Services.
Pass T Level in Legal Services with an overall grade of Distinction including grade B in the Core Component
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and between 92% to 88% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 4 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of between 1.8 to 2.0 or better for first-year entry.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 75%  from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AAABB - AABBB from 5 grade 12 courses
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of between 4.2 and 4.5
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average 18.5/20 and above.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result between EEMM - EMMM
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of at least 14/20.
German Abitur with an overall result of 1.8 to 2.0 or better.
Apolytirion with an overall average of between 18.5 and 19 will be considered for first-year entry.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 5, 4 to 5, 4, 4 from three subjects including two electives.
Erettsegi/Matura with a good average of at least 55544
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H1,H2,H2,H3 to H1,H2,H2,H3,H3
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of between 81/100 and 85/100.
Pass the Diplome de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with between 46-48 points overall.
Voorereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), normally with an average between 7-8.
Norwegian Vitnemal Fra Den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of between 4 to 4.5
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 80th percentile.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark between 17/20 and 18/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.5 and 8.7
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average above 1.8 from 4 subjects.
Secondary School Leaving Diploma or Matura with at least 24 points overall.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of at least 8.0.
No
If you’re interested in qualification through the new Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE), we’re here to support you:
Professor Amir Paz-Fuchs, Sussex Law School: “Welcome to the University of Sussex Law Clinics where theory meets practice and students become real-world problem solvers for their local community.”
Hashim Al-Metwakill, Migration Law Clinic student: “Although the Law Clinics aren't a module that you have to take here, I really do think that it is one of the best experiences and that everyone should have an opportunity to do them.
There are a lot of options in terms of Law Clinics available here.
I chose the migration Law Clinic.”
Paz-Fuchs: “What students get from the clinics is real-life experience, helping people in the community, understanding how the law operates in practice, and gaining extremely valuable skills for their CV and for their employability.”
Al-Metwakill: “So throughout my time at the Migration Law Clinic, I learned to client interview, draft memos, advice letters, and how to deal with the unexpected.
There are situations that arise that you might not know how to react to originally, but with experience and with the guidance of our teachers, you really get to know how to deal with them.”
Zoe Janae Hoyte, Street Law Clinic: “Doing the clinics has meant that I've gotten to see that I have skills that are going to make a difference for people.
Knowing that I can find that purpose in what I've studied in a real impactful way, in a real world, is really empowering for me and has encouraged me to move forward in my route of doing charitable work in a legal setting, and I'm just really excited to know that there's going to be a future in helping people like I have in Street Law.”
Dr Lucy Welsh, Sussex Law School: “The Law Clinics really empower the students through experiential learning.
It's about more than just reading case law or reading articles.
It's about rolling up their sleeves and actually making a tangible difference to people's lives through the law.”
Deanna Coe, Housing Law Clinic student: “It gives you a different law degree in comparison to just looking at statute, writing an essay.
You are able to apply the law practically, which you don't get to do everywhere or within every module.
If you're writing a dissertation, it's not the same experience whatsoever, but being able to be a part of the Law Clinic, it does give that other angle of your degree and it gives you that other skill set which it is priceless.”
Haley Stern, Employability Law Clinic student: “I think the Law Clinics really showed me why I'm passionate about law.
Why I chose law in general.
It's seeing that interpersonal element.
It's real-life people with real-life issues and being that person to either help them or just listen to them, is the reason why I came into this.
It's about people and at the end of the day, it's about that person in that time of their life.
So if you can help them, that's the best thing.
That's the only thing you can ask for really.”
View profile of Jeanette Ashton
Assistant Professor in Law
View profile of Fiona Clements
Reader In Law
View profile of Mark Davies
Professor of Law
View profile of Nuno Ferreira
Associate Professor in Law and Critical Theory
View profile of Sabrina Gilani
Associate Professor in Law
View profile of Bonnie Holligan
Associate Professor in Employment Law
View profile of Ioannis Katsaroumpas
School Tutor In Law
View profile of Mary Lee
View profile of Mary Frances Lukera
Reader in Legal Education
View profile of Verona Ni Drisceoil
View profile of Tanya Palmer
View profile of Joanna Smallwood
Professor of Public Law
View profile of Lindsay Stirton
Associate Professor in Commercial Law
View profile of Jo Wilson
You’ll be prepared – subject to completion of the necessary further qualifications – to practise law as a solicitor, a barrister or an in-house lawyer for a public limited company or a government agency.
Or you can choose to use your excellent communication skills, honed during your year abroad, in fields such as:
Pass T Level in Legal Services with an overall grade of Merit including grade B in the Core Component
Find out more about Sussex Law School

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/media-arts-and-humanities-with-a-foundation-year-ba:
Our Arts and Humanities Foundation Year will prepare you to enter Year 1 of a Sussex degree with a head start.
You'll gain essential skills in critical analysis, developing arguments and self-expression through a dedicated programme of support and development .
Explore a range of subjects at university level – such as history, art history, philosophy and literature.
You pick from the broad array of option modules to tailor your course to your personal interests.
Successfully completing your Foundation Year allows you to continue your studies in a wide range of subjects in the Arts and Humanities at Sussex .
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade 4 or above (or grade C).
M3 M3 M3
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade C at A-level and, M3 and M3 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades CC at A-level and M3 in Pre-U.
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade 4 (grade C) or above.
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade 4 or above (or grade C).
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade 4 or above (or grade C).
Merit overall in a relevant subject.
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade C or above (or grade 4 in the new grading scale).
Evidence of your academic ability in essay-based humanities and social science subjects.
Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis.
Finnish Ylioppilastutkinto with an overall average result of 4.5.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of at least 11/20.
Including essay-based humanities and social science subjects.
Brandos Atestatas including an average score of 70% from at least three state examinations (other than English).
Grade D in A-level and Merit, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Pass overall with a grade C in Core Component.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/anthropology-ba:
Anthropology BA (Hons)
People, cultures and societies are different the world over.
As an Anthropology student, you’ll explore a wide diversity of cultural contexts.
You’ll study the ways in which people around the globe tackle contemporary issues – from climate change, health inequalities and environmental degradation, to racial discrimination, gender-based violence and human rights.
At Sussex, you’ll learn from experts tackling real-world problems.
We influence debates on topics such as social justice and activism, sexualities and queer experiences, contemporary forms of slavery, ethical trade and religious conflict.
We value interdisciplinarity.
Throughout your course, you’ll be encouraged to study global challenges from different perspectives.
From philosophy to law and modern languages, you take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
You’ll have the opportunity to work on an independent research project and conduct fieldwork.
Our diverse range of modules includes topics such as:
During your studies, you’ll gain the skills and confidence to make a positive difference in the world.
When you graduate, you’ll have the knowledge for employment in areas such as:
Bertie: My favourite thing about my course here at Sussex is just how, just how genuinely friendly and welcoming everyone is.
So, whether it’s my fellow students or, you know, the academics who teach, you know, the PhD academics or even the lecturers themselves, everyone really wants to get to know you as a person.
So, as well as trying to encourage you to build good ideas, or through their various areas of expertise, everyone wants to get to know you as a person, and it means that I’ve really come to feel at home here and part of like a, you know, a genuine community, and really feel like an actual anthropologist.
You choose options to broaden your horizons and tailor your course to your interests.
This list gives you a flavour of our options, which are kept under
						review and may change, for example in response to student feedback or the latest research.
Associate Professor in Anthropology and International Development
View profile of Paul Boyce
Assistant Professor in Global Studies
View profile of Stuart Cartland
Head of School Global Studies
View profile of Geert De Neve
Associate Professor in Social Anthropology
View profile of Diana Ibanez-Tirado
Professor of Social Anthropology
View profile of Pamela Kea
Reader in Anthropology and International Development
View profile of Evan Killick
Professor Of Social Anthropology
View profile of Magnus Marsden
Assistant Professor in Anthropology
View profile of Karis Jade Petty
View profile of Rebecca Prentice
Professor 0f Social And Medical Anthropology
View profile of Maya Unnithan
Associate Professor in Anthropology
View profile of Alice Wilson
You gain transferable skills in analysis, written communication and cultural understanding.
These skills are sought after in areas including:
You can also attend specialist careers events and workshops with industry representatives and employers.
Recent Anthropology graduates have taken up jobs such as:
project manager, Pepal Sustainable Change, Tanzania
press officer, British Film Institute
migrant rights advocate, London.
(Department of Anthropology careers database)
Find out more about the Department of Anthropology

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/anthropology-and-international-development-ba:
Anthropology and International Development BA (Hons)
For more than 50 years, Anthropology at Sussex has been at the forefront of anthropology's engagement with real-world problems.
Anthropology gives you an in-depth understanding of global cultures and societies, helping you to grasp your place in the world, so you can make a difference.
You’ll learn from experts who influence debate on topics such as gender relations, migration, economic and political inequality, religion, health and reproduction.
Combining anthropology and international development helps you understand how development interventions affect communities across the world.
You’ll also explore the impact of economic growth on social and cultural change.
Maisie: So, my favourite thing about studying at Sussex is definitely how closely the International Development Department is related to the Anthropology Department.
[Umm] Sussex is the first in the world for International Development, and, [umm], I really think its closeness to the Anthropology Department is what makes it so special...
[umm] because when you’re talking about these big issues like climate change and poverty that really affect people’s lives, [umm], it can be very easy...
to forget...
[umm] to speak to the actual people who are affected by these issues.
And Anthropology really forces you to speak to everyday people, and understand their lives, so that when we’re creating solutions to climate change, they don’t affect people negatively.
Professor of Migration and Development
View profile of Priya Deshingkar
Assistant Professor in Anthropology and International Development
View profile of Demet Dinler
Professor of Anthropology and International Development
View profile of Anne-Meike Fechter
Reader in Development, Justice and Inequality
View profile of Paul Gilbert
Associate Professor in International Development
View profile of Anna Laing
View profile of Lyndsay McLean
View profile of Elizabeth Mills
Assistant Professor in International Development
View profile of Suda Perera
View profile of Dinah Rajak
Professor of Anthropology & Global Development
View profile of Anke Schwittay
View profile of Sarah Scuzzarello
Professor of International Relations and International Development
View profile of Benjamin Selwyn
Our Anthropology and International Development BA gives you the skills to go on to research and further study, as well as work in:
Sussex students also have opportunities to attend specialist careers talks, drop-in sessions and workshops with industry representatives and potential employers.
Recent events have included ‘Career Options in Global Studies’ and the chance to find out about placements and graduate programmes with the Department of Work and Pensions.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/anthropology-with-a-language-ba:
Anthropology with a Language BA (Hons)
Combining anthropology with a language gives you the tools to better understand the culture and society of the countries in which your chosen language is spoken.
Choose one language from Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese and Spanish, or you can choose to study English Language Teaching.
The languages we offer can be studied at a variety of levels, depending on your chosen language.
We welcome applicants whose first or primary language is not English though please note that it is not normally possible for applicants with CEFR B2+ proficiency to study that language within this degree.
The languages we offer can all be started from beginners ’ level.
Some may be started from a higher level.
Find out more about studying a language alongside your degree
Associate Professor in Arabic and Comparative Literature
View profile of Feras Alkabani
Assistant Professor in French
View profile of Patricia Couturas
View profile of Flora Derounian
View profile of Axelle Fleury
View profile of Benoit Guilbaud
Reader in Spanish
View profile of Aaron Kahn
Associate Professor in Italian
View profile of Ambra Moroncini
Assistant Professor in Spanish
View profile of Inma Ridao Carlini
View profile of John Walker
Assistant Professor in Japanese
View profile of Junko Winch
Studying our Anthropology with a Language BA will enhance your communication and language skills, which are highly valued by employers.
Your degree is versatile and can lead to careers in:
At Sussex, you can attend specialist careers talks, drop-in sessions and workshops with industry representatives and potential employers.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-and-anthropology-ba:
Geography and Anthropology BA (Hons)
To address global issues including climate change, migration, urbanisation and sustainable development, you need to understand both environmental and cultural perspectives.
This course empowers you to consider all dimensions of the issues and to offer solutions that are culturally respected and sustainable.
As a student, you’ll join the Department of Geography in the School of Global Studies, home to leading academics who are shaping policy.
You’ll benefit from our culture of research excellence in areas including social justice and activism, climate change, and sustainable development.
You’ll also have access to our established policy advisors and enhanced careers support.
You’ll benefit from an excellent choice of local and global field-trip destinations, giving you the opportunity to take your learning out into the field.
Recent destinations have included the Mojave Desert, Los Angeles, China, Corsica and Greece.
Plus our setting – within the South Downs National Park – means you’ll have the opportunity to take your learning out into the field on your doorstep.
You’ll graduate with a unique skill set that is valuable across various careers.
You might choose to explore fields like environmental research, urban planning, international development or cultural heritage.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
You will need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade C.
You will need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade C (grade 4).
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography is desirable and a good level of Mathematics.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result between MMMM - EMMM
Get involved in fieldwork from the start of your course.
You develop research, analytical and team-working skills in regions where our academics actively conduct research.
In Year 2, you can pick from an exciting range of locations: recent destinations include Los Angeles , China, Greece and Corsica .
There is also a UK-based field trip.
Emeritus Professor
View profile of James Fairhead
View profile of Jon Mitchell
Professor of Historical Geography
View profile of Carl Griffin
View profile of Alan Lester
Professor of Sustainability andInternational Development
View profile of David Ockwell
Reader in Migration Geography
View profile of Ceri Oeppen
Assistant Professor in Geography
View profile of Olivia Taylor
Professor of Geography and Heritage Studies
View profile of Divya Tolia-Kelly
Reader in Human Geography
View profile of Katie Walsh
On our Geography and Anthropology BA, you develop cultural awareness as well as research, numerical, analytical and resource-management skills.
This means you can go on to careers in a wide range of sectors, including:
Throughout your degree, you will receive support from your department and the university careers and employability centre, and can attend specialist careers events and workshops.
Recent Geography graduates have gone on to jobs such as:
emergency food security adviser, Oxfam
planning adviser, Environment Agency.
(Department of Geography careers database)
Find out more about the Department of Geography

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history-and-anthropology-ba:
History and Anthropology BA (Hons)
You’ll gain an in-depth understanding of global cultures and societies, helping you to grasp your place in the world and make a difference.
You’ll benefit from high-quality, research-led teaching in a supportive and invigorating learning environment.
Combining anthropology and history also helps you understand how local communities and global processes have interacted across time.
45%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 5%: Practical
Our Anthropology and History BA allows you to understand cultural difference in historical contexts.
You also gain careers skills in communication, teamwork and research.
You can go on to further study, or use your Anthropology and History BA for careers in:
While at Sussex, you can attend specialist careers talks, drop-in sessions and workshops with industry representatives and potential employers.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-relations-and-anthropology-ba:
International Relations and Anthropology BA (Hons)
Join the School of Global Studies, a unique hub of interdisciplinary research.
The Department of Anthropology and the Department of International Relations come together to offer a comprehensive training in the conditions that determine social change in our world today.
Gain a deep understanding of the major challenges facing our world today and learn how they can be addressed.
You’ll be taught by experts whose research is making a difference to communities across the world – from human rights to gender inequality to climate change and financial instability.
Professor of Historical Sociology
View profile of Gurminder Bhambra
Assistant Professor in International Relations
View profile of Andrea Brock
Professor of International Law, Ethics and Political Economy
View profile of Lara Montesinos Coleman
Associate Professor in Gender & Global Political Economy
View profile of Ida Danewid
Associate Professor In International Relations
View profile of Synne Dyvik
Associate Professor in International Relations
View profile of Julian Germann
View profile of David Karp
View profile of Samuel Knafo
Professor of International Relations
View profile of Peter Newell
View profile of Melanie Richter-Montpetit
View profile of Faiz Sheikh
View profile of Anna Stavrianakis
Associate Professor in Global Insecurities
View profile of Linda Tabar
Your International Relations and Anthropology degree develops your communication, analytical and cultural awareness skills.
You could go into graduate jobs at multinational companies, national and international organisations, and employers such as:
You also benefit from our specialised career events.
At these events, you can meet employers and find out more about UK and international graduate jobs.
Recent events have included advice sessions on the Civil Service Fast Stream graduate programme and NGO opportunities.
Recent International Relations graduates have started jobs as:
project manager, American Express.
( Department of International Relations careers database)
Find out more about the Department of International Relations

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences-with-a-foundation-year-ba:
By starting your degree studies at Sussex with our Foundation Year, you develop a wide-ranging understanding of the social sciences, from current issues affecting the globe to the structures that shape our societies.
You experience a range of subjects in the Social Sciences through modules in geography, anthropology, international relations, development, law, politics and sociology.
Successfully completing your Foundation Year guarantees that you'll be able to continue studying your choice of degree from a wide range of subjects in the Social Sciences at Sussex.
You'll build essential skills in critical analysis, developing arguments and self-expression through a dedicated programme of support and development.
No matter which social sciences subject you go on to study, o ur experienced staff will help you develop the academic knowledge and practical skills you’ll need to succeed throughout your degree and in your future career.
Standard XII results
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of  BCC, Matriculation with a least a grade of between 2.5 or UEC with an overall average grade B3 (65%).

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/data-analytics-and-digital-solutions-for-business-level-apprenticeship-bsc:
This course starts in August 2026
Data Analytics and Digital Solutions for Business (Level 6 apprenticeship) BSc (Hons)
This apprenticeship prepares you for a career at the cutting edge of business analytics and computer science.
You’ll develop quantitative and analytical skills, as well as coding and programming capabilities required by modern business analysts in a variety of sectors.
You’ll have access to our Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab, located in the University of Sussex Business School and high-specification computing facilities within our School of Engineering and Informatics .
Teaching methods will include online study as well as learning on campus at Sussex.
As an apprentice, you’ll be registered as a University of Sussex student and have access to our:
This course is mapped to the IfATE-standard Digital and Technology Solutions Professional degree apprenticeship.
As an apprentice, you’ll spend 20% of your paid working hours in protected learning time, ensuring minimal disruption.
We are part of the Surrey and Sussex Institute of Technology which focuses on providing flexible and affordable higher-level education and training in engineering and manufacturing, digital technologies, construction, planning and the built environment, and sustainable technologies.
We’ll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities described in this
			prospectus.
However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to government, professional body or
			regulatory requirements, or unanticipated staff changes, we’ll let you know as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art-history-ba:
Art History BA (Hons)
At Sussex, we do Art History differently.
Our approach is radically open – we explore art as a powerful force that shapes how people think, feel and act.
From ancient mosaics to music videos, and from Pre-Raphaelite jewellery to global environmental art, you can follow your interests.
You’ll develop visual literacy to decode and interpret a range of visual languages, from fine art and advertising, to AI and design.
In an age of image saturation and misinformation, these skills are essential.
You’ll engage with innovative methodologies that foreground materiality, the sensory, feminist and queer art histories, decolonisation and institutional critique.
With this critical grounding, you’ll be able to bring fresh perspectives to the cultural, creative and heritage sectors.
Employability is embedded throughout the degree.
You’ll thrive in a vibrant and supportive academic community, taught by world-leading researchers and dedicated teachers.
Small-group teaching fosters confidence and curiosity.
You’ll take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
And our vibrant student community brings global and interdisciplinary perspectives to our classroom discussions.
At Sussex, you won’t just study Art History – you’ll help shape its future and build your own.
Imogen: I would say my favourite thing about the course is the interdisciplinary nature of it.
So, although I take Art History, I’ve done...
like cover topics in my lectures such as religion, politics...
archaeology...
[umm]...
and I feel like you just get such a...
because of the lecturers’ broad research...
you get such an eclectic mix of different topics, and I feel like I’m not just narrowed to learning about art history...
[umm] and I feel like...
that it enlightens you [umm]...
and you’re able to just get a broader understanding on things that maybe you wouldn’t do at other unis.
30%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 15%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include critical and creative responses, essays, reports, presentations and professional-facing tasks .
Professor of Visual Culture
View profile of Benedict Burbridge
Professor in Art History
View profile of Meaghan Clarke
Assistant Professor in Art History
View profile of Ryann Donnelly
View profile of Alistair Grant
Professor of History of Art
View profile of Liz James
Lecturer in Material Culture
View profile of Danika Parikh
Associate Professor in Art History
View profile of Joanna Pawlik
View profile of Francesco Ventrella
Art History is among the most vocational of all the humanities subjects.
By studying Art History, you prepare yourself for a wide range of careers, both within and outside the arts.
As a graduate, you’ll have high-level skills in critical thinking, cultural awareness and impactful communication.
You’ll be well prepared for careers in:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Art History

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art-history-with-a-professional-placement-year-ba:
Art History (with a professional placement year) BA (Hons)
A placement is a great way to network and gain practical skills.
When you leave Sussex, you'll benefit from already having the experience employers are looking for.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art-history-and-film-studies-ba:
Art History and Film Studies BA (Hons)
Combine your interests in art with your passion for film.
You’ll explore why art history matters to society, culture and politics.
Watching a wide range of films, you’ll find out how cinema entertains, informs and influences its audiences.
You’ll examine every aspect of visual and material culture, from photography to architecture to fashion.
You’ll investigate global film cultures; question cinematic representations of gender, race and sexuality; and analyse popular genres.
Our engaged and passionate tutors will guide you through each year of your degree.
And you’ll have the opportunity to collaborate with renowned curators and our partners in the industry.
Throughout your studies, you’ll develop your critical and analytical skills.
Specialist options allow you to tailor your degree to what inspires you most.
By studying Art History and Film Studies BA at Sussex you prepare yourself for a wide range of careers, both within and outside the arts.
You can work in areas such as:
Our graduates are intellectually agile, highly skilled communicators, and have excellent capacities in creative problem-solving, critical thinking, organisation and planning.
They also understand how visual culture works – an essential skill in an image-saturated society.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-and-art-history-ba:
English and Art History BA (Hons)
Literature and visual culture shape the world.
With our world-leading experts, you’ll explore words and ideas, challenge ideas and shape culture.
If you’re an independent thinker ready to engage critically with culture in all its forms, this course is for you.
In English, you’ll:
In Art History, you’ll:
When you graduate, you’ll have an adaptable, sought-after skillset – the ability to analyse complex material, think critically and creatively, and communicate with impact across media and audiences.
Your practical experience means you’ll have the confidence to contribute to professional environments from day one.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects
30%: Lecture 45%: Seminar 15%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
English is multidisciplinary and flexible.
Art History is a practical humanities subject.
Studying them together gives you transferable skills in critical analysis, research, communication, independent thinking and problem-solving.
You’ll also understand how visual culture works – an essential skill in an image-saturated society.
Many of our graduates go on to careers in the cultural and creative sectors, working in:
Others apply their analytical and communication skills in fields such as:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in English, Literature and Creative Writing

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biochemistry-bsc:
Biochemistry BSc (Hons)
What are the mechanisms of life?
Studying Biochemistry at Sussex, you’ll explore this question.
Taught by leading biochemists and chemists, you’ll:
From Year 1, you’ll be in the lab gaining hands-on practical skills, recording, analysing and interpreting data from your experiments.
You’ll learn about current theories in the field, communicating complex topics and working as part of a team.
The course is informed by the latest research.
It’s flexible so you can tailor your degree to your interests and career aspirations.
You’ll be inspired by modules in areas such as medicinal chemistry, drug discovery, cell signalling and neuroscience.
You’ll be supported by a friendly community of scientists in the School of Life Sciences .
Our student mentoring programme can also provide you with academic support should you need it.
When you graduate, you’ll have skills in:
With such skills, a variety of careers are open to you, in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, or within forensics.
Your data-handling and analytical skills mean you could develop a career both inside and outside of science.
We also offer this course with an industrial placement year , or as a four-year MSci .
A-levels must include Biology and Chemistry.
You will also need to pass the separate science practical assessment.
If you are not able to take the science practical assessment, applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
You will normally need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics and two Science subjects with grade 5 in each (or grade B).
The Access to HE Diploma will need to be in Science and contain substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in both Biology and Chemistry.
A-levels or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects must include both Biology and Chemistry.
If you are taking a science subject at A-level that has the separate science practical assessment, we would normally expect a pass.
If you are not able to take the science practical assessment, your application will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Higher Levels must include both Biology and Chemistry, with a grade of at least 5.
A-level must be in Chemistry and the BTEC will need to be Applied Science (with good levels of Biology).
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in Chemistry.
If you are not able to take the science practical assessment, applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
A-levels must include both Biology and Chemistry.
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in Chemistry.
The Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma will need to be in Applied science and must include the following modules
For the BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma, please contact admissions ug.applicants@sussex.ac.uk
You will normally need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics and two science subjects with grade 5 in each (or grade B).
ABBBB
Highers must include both Biology and Chemistry.
Ideally, you will also have an Advanced Higher in Chemistry (grade B).
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics and two sciences at grade B.
The T Level in Science will be considered on a case-by-case basis
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) in Mathematics and two science subjects with grade 5 in each (or grade B)
You will normally need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics and two Science subjects with grade B in each (or grade 5).
Overall result of at least 77%
Evidence of existing academic ability in both Biology and Chemistry is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.0).
Also you should have a good level of Mathematics.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 85% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER,  or a Queensland OP of 5 or better.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Chemistry is essential.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of 2.2 or better for first-year entry.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 70% from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses.
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation BBBBB from 5 grade 12 courses.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of 4
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average of 18/20 will be considered for first-year entry.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result of MMMM or better
You must have a good level of Chemistry.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of 12/20
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with a good result (12/20) in Chemistry.
German Abitur with an overall result of 2.2 or better.
You will need a very good final result in Chemistry (at least 12/15).
Apolytirion with an overall average of 18 will be considered for first-year entry.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Chemistry with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in Chemistry with an overall score of 17.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 4, 4, 4 from three subjects including two electives.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H2,H2,H2,H3,H3.
Highers will need to include Chemistry, normally grade H1.
You must have at least grade O3 in Mathematics and two Sciences.
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of 78/100
Pass the Diplome de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with 43 points overall.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 75th percentile including Chemistry.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 16/20
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.0 including a score of 8 in Chemistry.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects including Chemistry.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result 7.5
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade B in Chemistry.
[Music starts – light pop – no vocals]
Want to help shape a better world through science?
Want to tackle real world problems?
And create world-changing impact?
It all starts at the University of Sussex.
Our research focussed courses span the whole of Life Sciences:
Chemistry
Biochemistry
Neuroscience
Biology
Zoology
Ecology and Conservation
Biomedical Science
Genetics
Using the latest in cutting-edge advances.
Guided by world-leading experts.
Gain hands-on experience, in both our teaching labs and out in the field.
Influence important policies on things such as the pesticides that kill our wildlife, and policies that protect endangered species.
Work towards unlocking the secrets of the brain and ending the despair of cancer and Alzheimer’s.
Join a community of leading scientists and like-minded students striving to make the world a better place for all.
And follow in the footsteps of our 3 Nobel-prize winning alumni.
We’re here today, to train the scientists of tomorrow.
And you could be one of them.
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences at sussex.ac.uk
[Music ends]
Associate Professor in RNA Biology
View profile of Leandro Castellano
Professor of Microbial Biocontrol
View profile of Neil Crickmore
View profile of Georgios Giamas
Assistant Professor in Biochemistry and Biomedicine
View profile of Greig Joilin
Professor of Biomedical Structural Biology
View profile of Erika Mancini
View profile of Ethan Morgan
Associate Professor of Cancer Biology
View profile of Rhys Morgan
Associate Professor in Biochemistry
View profile of Haruko Okamoto
Reader in Molecular Genetics
View profile of Mark Paget
Associate Professor in Bioinformatics
View profile of Frances Pearl
Professor in Biomedical Science Education
View profile of Zahid Pranjol
View profile of Chrisostomos Prodromou
View profile of Joanna Richardson
X-Ray Crystallography Collaborative Research Facility Manager
View profile of Mark Roe
View profile of Louise Serpell
View profile of Lorraine Smith
Head of School - Life Sciences
View profile of Michelle West
Assistant Professor in Immunology
View profile of David Wood
Associate Professor in Microbiology
View profile of Edward Wright
Studying Biochemistry at Sussex prepares you for a range of careers – not just in science.
You’ll become skilled in numerical and data analysis, problem-solving and laboratory work.
Transferable skills such as time management, communication and analytical skills are embedded in the modules throughout your course.
You can use your Biochemistry degree to work in areas including:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Biochemistry
BCC including both Biology and Chemistry, with grade B in one.
Grade B in A-level and Merit, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades BC in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences: Biochemistry and Biomedicine

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biochemistry-msci:
Biochemistry MSci
And in addition, in your integrated Masters year , you gain a strong theoretical and practical foundation for a career in – or related to – research.
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Biochemistry research teams.
In this year, you’ll develop advanced skills in technical, analytical and scientific communication skills.
We also offer this course as a three-year BSc , or a BSc with an industrial placement year .
You will need substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in both Biology and Chemistry or will need to have taken A-level Chemistry and Biology in addition to the Access to HE Diploma.
M1, M1 and M2 in the Pre-U
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade A in the A-level and M1 and M2 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades AB in the two A-levels and M1 in the Pre-U.
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in Biology and/or Chemistry.
You will need Higher Levels in both Biology and Chemistry, with grade 5.
Grades AB in A-levels plus Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in at least one A-level.
Highers must include both Biology and Chemistry, with at least grade B.
Ideally, you will also have Biology and Chemistry as an Advanced Higher.
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics and two sciences with grade B in each.
The T Level in Science will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Overall result of 80%
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in both Biology and Chemistry with good results (at least a score of 8.0).
Also you must have a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Chemistry with good results are essential.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 8-10 on the new grading scale.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with good results (12/20) in the key areas (Chemistry).
You must also you must have a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Chemistry with good results (12/15) are essential.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Chemistry with good results of 5 or 4 are essential.
Erettsegi/Matura with a good average of at least 55555 to 55544.
You must have at least grade O3 in Mathematics and two sciences
Evidence of academic studies to a high level Chemistry with good results are essential.
Norwegian Vitnemal Fra Den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of between 4.5 to 5
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 80th percentile including Chemistry
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.7 including a score of 8 in Chemistry.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including Chemistry.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A and B grades in the majority of subjects including grade B in Chemistry.
Liam: So, for me, the most favourite thing about my course is I get to collaborate with students who do a range of degrees different to my own, so I get to learn about how they learn, and how they process information.
So, for me, that’s the most interesting thing about my course.
Recent Life Sciences students have gone on placements at:
Grade B in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades BC in A-levels plus Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
DDM

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biochemistry-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Biochemistry (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
And in addition, the optional year in industry is a great opportunity for you to gain real-world experience of working in the biochemical sector.
If your application is successful, you’ll spend your year in industry after Year 2 and before you return to Sussex for your final year.
As a graduate, the skills you’ve gained during your industrial placement will give you a distinct advantage in your chosen career.
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , or as a four-year MSci .
You can apply to spend your third year in an industrial laboratory (typically a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company) or a research institute before returning to Sussex for your final year.
During your placement you work on a research project and write a dissertation.
You are usually paid by the host laboratory during the placement year.
BCC including both Biology and Chemistry, with grade B in one

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/life-sciences-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
“The foundation year was an ideal introduction to life at uni.
It eased the transition, both academically and socially, and was a fantastic opportunity to get to know people and facilities before the first year.”
If you want to learn from scientists tackling some of the world’s most important challenges – such as conservation, cancer and dementia – this Foundation Year is perfect for you.
On our Foundation Year, you’ll have the opportunity to explore exciting subjects in Life Sciences before you choose your degree.
You’ll gain knowledge and experience of the content of different courses.
To prepare you for whichever course you pick, you learn both practical and academic skills in:
This gives you the perfect grounding for your studies.
Rudie: The favourite thing to me about my course is how diverse it is.
There are so many subjects you can cover and so many different people you can meet.
And I feel like regardless of which degree I end up picking, it's really going to set me up for the future working in an interdisciplinary way.
CCC
A-levels should normally include at least one science from Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, Statistics or Life & Health Sciences (Double Award only).
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in at least one of the science subjects.
You will normally need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics and two Science subjects with grade 5 in each (or grade B).
Alternatively, applicants with strong academic background not in relevant science subjects will be considered on case-by-case basis.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades CC at A-levels and M3 in Pre-U.
A-levels or Pre-U Principal Subjects should normally include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, Statistics or Life & Health Sciences (Double Award only).
Including at least 4 in Higher Level science (Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Physics, Psychology or Maths).
Successful application for the foundation year will be evidence of academic ability in a demanding science degree.
A-levels should normally include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology or Statistics.
This science A-level should be grade C.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) English, Mathematics and two Science subjects with grade B in each (or grade 5).
A-levels should normally include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, Statistics or Life & Health Sciences (Double Award only).
This science A-level should be at least grade C.
The Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma should normally be in Applied science and must include the following modules
The Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma in Animal Management will also be considered.
Successful applicants will need good grades in the following core modules: Animal Health and Diseases, Animal Biology, Animal Behaviour.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) in Mathematics and two science subjects with grade 5 in each (or grade B).
Scottish Highers must include either Biology, Chemistry, Physic, Psychology or Maths.
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics and two Science subjects with grade B in each.
Distinction overall in the Science T Level
The science A-level should be at grade C.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) in Mathematics and two Science subjects with grade B in each (or grade 5).
Evidence of your potential to do well in a demanding science degree with a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of your potential to do well in a demanding science degree with a good level of mathematics.
You will need to have good grades in Science and Maths
Subjects must include a science from (Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Physics, Psychology or Maths).
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) should include either Biology, Chemistry or Physics at H2.
You will also have O4 in Mathematics and two Science subjects.
Evidence of your potential to do well in a demanding science degree.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 65th percentile including at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 7 to 7.5 including Science subjects (Biology, Chemistry or Physics)
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include C grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade C in either Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
You must have a good level of Mathematics
CDD, including grade C in a relevant science subject.
Grade C in A-level and Merit, Pass in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades CD in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biology-bsc:
Biology BSc (Hons)
How could we cure cancer?
How can we end the despair of Alzheimer’s?
How can we protect rare species from extinction, or prevent epidemics from spreading globally?
This course sets you up to understand new discoveries.
You’ll develop critical thinking, scientific teamwork and technical communication skills, alongside a solid grounding in biology.
You can choose to focus on areas such as cell and molecular biology, evolution and ecology, or neuroscience and behaviour.
From Year 1, you’ll get hands-on practical experience in laboratories and in the field.
You’ll have the opportunity to explore the beautiful surroundings of the South Downs National Park.
Further afield, we offer inspiring field trips with destinations such as:
At Sussex, our research has real-world impact.
You’ll learn from experts tackling some of society’s biggest issues – from research into cancer treatments to the declining bee population.
In your third year, you could have the opportunity to join a lecturer’s research lab and carry out your own project.
In the School of Life Sciences , you’ll be supported by a friendly scientific community.
When you graduate, you’ll have experience of conducting experiments, statistical data analysis, and drawing conclusions from scientific evidence.
This – combined with your data-handling and analytical skills – means you’re prepared for a career inside and outside of science.
Biology is a route to many careers, in fields including:
We also offer this course as a four-year MSci .
A-levels must include at least one science from Biology, Chemistry, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics or Sports Science at grade B.
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in at least one of the science subjects.
Substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in relevant science subjects.
A-level or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects must include at least one science from A-level listing above.
Higher Levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics with a grade of 5.
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above at grade B .
Applicants combining a different A-level with the BTEC Level 3 National Diploma in Applied Science will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you have taken a science A-level you will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in a science subject.
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above at grade B.
Highers must include one or two science subjects (other than Maths).
Ideally, you will have at least one science subject (Biology, Chemistry or Physics) at Advanced Higher.
A-levels must include at least one from  Biology, Chemistry, Human Biology, Marine Science, Physics or Sports Science.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in science subjects with good results is essential (at least a score of 8).
Also you will need to have a good ability in mathematics.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and between 88% to 85% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 4 to 5 or better.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in either Biology, Chemistry and Physics with good results are essential.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in science subjects with good results is essential.
Successful students will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with good results (12/20) in at least one science subject from Biology, Chemistry or Physics and have a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in science subjects with good results (12/15) in at least one science from Biology, Chemistry or Physics and have a good level of Mathematics.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics with an overall score of 17.
Highers will need to include at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics, with a grade H1.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 75th percentile including at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.0 and 8.5 including a score of 8 in either Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects including at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade B in in either Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Professor of Developmental Neurobiology
View profile of Claudio Alonso
Professor of Evolutionary Genetics
View profile of Adam Eyre-Walker
Professor Of Biology
View profile of Dave Goulson
Professor of Neuroethology
View profile of Paul Graham
Professor of Developmental Neuroscience
View profile of Sarah Guthrie
Professor Of Neuroscience 'Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award holder'
View profile of Leon Lagnado
Professor of Environmental Biology
View profile of Fiona Mathews
Professor of Zoology
View profile of Jeremy Niven
Associate Professor in Behavioural Ecology
View profile of Wiebke Schuett
Throughout your course, transferable skills such as time management, communication and numerical and data analysis are embedded within the modules.
You also develop your problem-solving and team-working abilities.
At Sussex, you can access careers support in the form of one-to-one appointments, drop-in clinics, exclusive jobs listings and talks given by industry professionals.
This support continues up to three years after you’ve graduated.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Biology
BCC, including grade B in a relevant science subject.
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences: Evolution, behaviour and environment

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biology-msci:
Biology MSci
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Biology research teams.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics or Sports Science.
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade A in the A-level and M1 and M2 in the two Pre-Us.
Higher Levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics, with a grade of 5.
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above.
You will also need Scottish National 5 in English, Mathematics and two sciences with grade B in each.
AAB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Human Biology, Marine Science, Mathematics, Physics or Sports Science, at grade B
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 7 - 10 on the new grading scale.
Erettsegi/Matura with a good average of at least 55555 to 55544
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 80th percentile including at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of between 8.7 including a score of 8 in either Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade B in in either Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Grades BB in A-levels plus Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology-and-conservation-bsc:
Ecology and Conservation BSc (Hons)
Managing environmental change, and conserving rare animals and plants are among today’s key ecological challenges.
There’s never been a greater need for trained ecologists and conservation biologists to find solutions.
On your course, you’ll be taught by ecologists who are active in conservation projects at local, national and international levels.
Our experts influence global debates on topics including:
You’ll join a friendly and supportive community of students and scientists in the School of Life Sciences .
At Sussex, you’re in the ideal place for studying Ecology and Conservation.
You’ll have the UNESCO-recognised South Downs National Park on one side, and the coast on the other.
If you’d like to go further afield for inspiration, we offer field trip opportunities across the UK, Portugal, Southern Africa and Ecuador.
Your specialist knowledge and rich skillset prepare you for a career in a wide range of related sectors.
Recent graduates are now making a positive difference to our world working for:
We also offer this course as a four-year MSci .
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology with good results is essential.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology with good results is essential.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology with good results is essential.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with good results (12/20) in Biology.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in science subjects with good results (12/15) in Biology.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Biology with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in Biology, with an overall score of 17.
Highers will need to include Biology, with a grade of H1.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 75th percentile including Biology.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.0 and 8.5 including a score of 8 in Biology.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects including Biology.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade B in Biology.
View profile of Maria Clara Castellanos
Associate Professor in Ecology and Evolution
View profile of Claudia Drees
Assistant Professor in Ecology and Animal Biology
View profile of Deborah Glass
Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology
View profile of Pierre Nouvellet
View profile of Mika Peck
Associate Professor Environment
View profile of Ellen Rotheray
Associate Professor in Biology
View profile of Christopher Sandom
View profile of Alan Stewart
You’ll develop skills in problem-solving, analysis, laboratory work and communication.
About one in five of our graduates go on to further study, and we provide you with an excellent preparation for a career in:
You are supported through careers-focused events – including drop-in sessions, talks and workshops – tailored to your subject.
Access to careers support from Sussex continues after you’ve graduated.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology-and-conservation-msci:
Ecology and Conservation MSci
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Ecology and Conservation research teams.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or Studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 7 to 10 on the new grading scale.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Biology, with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in Biology with an overall score of 17.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 80th percentile including Biology.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of between 8.7 including a score of 8 in Biology.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including Biology.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A and B grades in the majority of subjects and to include a grade B in Biology.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/zoology-bsc:
Zoology BSc (Hons)
Are you fascinated by the way animals behave, evolve, influence and are influenced by the world around them?
Are you concerned about the natural world and the threats it faces?
At Sussex, you’ll experience Zoology first-hand.
We’re based in the UNESCO Living Coast Biosphere Reserve and next to the South Downs National Park .
You’ll be in the perfect place for studying a wide range of native wildlife.
And you’ll have the opportunity to encounter other animals and natural environments on field trips.
Our previous visits have included animals as diverse as puffins on Lundy and elephants in Zambia.
Inside the classroom, you’ll explore a range of disciplines including biology, physiology and environmental science.
You’ll learn from experts with research interests ranging from bumblebees to sharks.
Our researchers are active in conservation and rewilding projects at local, national and international levels.
This includes influencing policies on the pesticides killing our wildlife, and rescuing the brown-headed spider monkey from extinction.
This course prepares you for a career where you can make a difference in protecting and restoring biodiversity.
When you graduate, you could work in a range of sectors including:
You’ll also have data analysis and communication skills.
This prepares you for a wide range of roles, from media and journalism, to public engagement and marketing.
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of  ABB-BBB, Matriculation with a least a grade of 3.0 or UEC with an overall average grade B3 (75%).
We look at your full profile taking into account everything you are studying, including the high school graduation diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests and/or ACT grades  We are particularly interested in AP tests and would ideally like to see three good AP scores.
Advanced Placement Tests with scores of between 5,4,4 to 4,4,4 in three subjects.
If you have taken the SAT reasoning tests we'd normally expect a combined score of at least 1300.
If you've taken the ACT we'd expect to see a composite score of at least 26.
Professor of Neuroscience
View profile of Daniel Colaco Osorio
Professor of Evolutionary Biology
View profile of William Hughes
View profile of Francis Ratnieks
While studying Zoology, you’ll develop many new skills, preparing you for a fieldwork-based career.
You'll also graduate with a range of transferable skills, including teamwork, good communication and analysis – making you highly employable.
With your Zoology degree you can start a career in:
You could also go on to teaching, or research in academia or industry.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/zoology-msci:
Zoology MSci
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Zoology research teams.
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of  AAB, Maticulation 3.5, UEC overall average grade A2 78%.
We look at your full profile taking into account everything you are studying, including the high school graduation diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests and/or ACT grades We are particularly interested in AP tests and would ideally like to see three good AP scores
Advanced Placement Tests with scores of 5,5,4 in three subjects.
If you've taken the ACT we'd expect to see a composite score of at least 26

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biomedical-science-bsc:
Biomedical Science BSc (Hons)
Biomedical Science is at the heart of medical breakthroughs.
That’s why this subject is vital to the world.
From Year 1, you get hands-on practical experience in our labs.
Later on in your course, you’ll have the opportunity to explore real human specimens in our anatomy laboratory classes.
The course is flexible, and you can tailor your degree to your interests and career aspirations.
You’ll be inspired by our modules exploring topics such as cancer, infectious diseases and vaccine development, and genomics and bioinformatics.
Throughout your time at Sussex, you’ll develop your practical, analytical, problem-solving, communication and technical skills.
You’ll learn via lectures, workshops, tutorials and seminars.
Your teaching is underpinned by the research of our internationally renowned group of experts.
They work at the forefront of biomedical research.
You’ll be supported in a friendly community of scientists in the School of Life Sciences , as well as staff from Brighton & Sussex Medical School and NHS Trust.
Many Biomedical Science students aim to specialise in a branch of Medicine.
This is why we offer a guaranteed interview scheme for Medicine at Brighton & Sussex Medical School, if you meet certain criteria.
When you graduate, you’ll have the data-handling and analytical skills for a wide range of science and science-related careers.
Outside of Medicine, our graduates have taken on a variety of jobs in fields including:
A-levels must include Biology at grade B.
You will also need to pass the separate science practical assessment in Biology.
Substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in Biology.
A-levels or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects must include Biology or and another science (from the A-level listing above).
You will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in Biology.
You will need Higher Level in Biology grade 5.
A-level must be Biology and BTEC Level 3 National Diploma must be in Applied Science.
Highers must include Biology with at least grade B.
A-levels must include Biology and another science (from the A-level listing above).
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology (at least a score of 8).
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology with good results are essential.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology with good results (12/15) are essential.
Apolytirion with an overall average of at least 18 and 18.5 will be considered for first-year entry.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Biology with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in Biology with an overall score of 17.
Highers will need to include Biology with a score of H1.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Biology with good results are essential.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects including Biology.
Eldora: My favourite thing about my course is that in second year, we get to do an anatomy lab at the Brighton and Sussex Medical School where we interact with cadavers, and it’s a very hands-on experience.
Throughout your course, you'll gain transferable skills including:
You can go on to graduate from medical school or to the expanding Physician Associate programmes.
You can also pursue postgraduate study, leading to academic and applied medical research in the pharmaceutical industry, hospitals, universities and research institutes.
As a graduate, you’ll be prepared for a wide variety of careers spanning, research, healthcare and industry.
This course is not accredited by the IBMS Institute for Biomedical Science .
This accreditation is only required for graduates considering a career within the NHS as a biomedical scientist.
Find out about IBMS accreditation at Criteria and Requirements for the Accreditation of BSc (Hons) in Biomedical Science
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Biomedical Science
BCC, including grade B in Biology.
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences: Biochemistry and Biomedicine

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biomedical-science-msci:
Biomedical Science MSci
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Biomedical Science research teams.
We also offer this course as a three-year BSc .
M1, M1 and M2 in the Pre-U
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade A in the A-level and M1 and M2 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades AB in the two A-levels and M2 in the Pre-U.
You will need Higher Level in Biology at grade 5.
A-levels must include Biology.
A-levels must include Biology at grade B and another science from Chemistry, Computing, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Marine Science, Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths, Physics, Physical Education, Psychology, Sport Science or Statistics.
Also Biology combined with Life & Health Sciences (Double Award only).
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or Studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 7- 10 on the new grading scale.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including Biology.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A and B grades in the majority of subjects and to include a grade B in Biology.
Grades AB in A-levels plus Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business-and-management-studies-bsc:
Business and Management Studies BSc (Hons)
Effective business leaders need to navigate global markets and communicate across cultures.
This course will give you an international outlook while you learn how to drive strategic growth and innovation.
As a student, you’ll join a Business School of leading academics who are shaping policy and practice.
We follow the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME).
This means we incorporate sustainability and social responsibility into our teaching and research.
We'll prepare you to work in organisations where profitability is balanced with sustainable business practices and corporate social responsibility.
You'll benefit from our culture of research excellence in areas such as the future of work, the digital workplace and sustainability.
You’ll also have access to our established industry connections, state-of-the-art facilities and enhanced careers support.
You can also strengthen your academic skills with the support of an academic success adviser, and expand your horizons through study abroad opportunities.
You’ll graduate with the expertise to pursue generalist or specialist management roles.
You could choose fields such as marketing, social enterprise or human resources.
You might also explore entrepreneurship and launch your own business venture.
Learn more about all of course accreditations here.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
Business Studies or include a Business pathway or module.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs grade 9-5 (A*-B), including good grades in relevant subjects.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade C (or grade 4 in the new grading scale).
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and between 88% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER,  or a Queensland OP of 4 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of 2.0 or better for first-year entry.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result of EMMM
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.5
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average above 1.8 from 4 subjects.
Associate Professor in Organisational Behaviour
View profile of Benjamin Everly
View profile of Federico Iannacci
Assistant Professor in Information Systems
View profile of Krystallia Moysidou
Professor of Comparative Human Resource Management
View profile of Jacqueline O'Reilly
Associate Professor in Management
View profile of Alexandra Pearson
Professor of Technology and Organisation
View profile of Dimitra Petrakaki
When you join the University of Sussex Business School you'll benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring by employers, networking, guest lecturers and development of essential workplace skills.
Outside the classroom you can join our StartUp Sussex programme where you benefit from workshops from consultants in Sussex Innovation , guidance on developing business ideas, and the chance to win StartUp funding.
You can also join the Business Society and join like-minded students who have an interest in business.
When you graduate, you’ll be prepared for a career as a business professional who can effectively operate in organisations that balance profit with corporate responsibility.
In the past, our graduates have gone on to work in organisations including:
BCC from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
Find out more about the Department of Business and Management

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business-and-management-studies-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Business and Management Studies (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
You’ll also have the opportunity to apply for a professional placement year.
Join the University of Sussex Business School and benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring by employers, networking, guest lecturers and development of essential workplace skills.
You’ll develop the business skills for a range of careers, including marketing and retail management, social enterprise, and human resources – and be ready to join the next generation of business leaders.
Outside the classroom you can join our StartUp Sussex programme where you benefit from workshops from consultants in the Sussex Innovation Centre, guidance on developing business ideas, and the chance to win StartUp funding.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computing-for-business-and-management-bsc:
Computing for Business and Management BSc (Hons)
Computing for Business and Management at Sussex combines a professional education in computing with specialisation in applications from computing to commerce.
The course covers software development, blended with the study of:
You’ll study in our Future Technologies Labs, which include a student-focused hub, teaching labs with suites of high-spec computers, and project workspaces.
When you graduate, your skills in leadership, project management and strategy formulation will be excellent preparation for a career in computing and IT.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 6 (or grade B).
We will also consider applicants with grade 5 in Mathematics if you are taking A-level Computer Science, Chemistry, Maths or Physics.
We do not expect applicants to have previous programming experience.
We encourage applications from anyone who enjoys the challenges of problem-solving and relishes the potential of new technology.
Computing or Science.
You will need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 6 (or grade B).
DDD-DDM
Normally Computing or Information Technology.
You will need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 6 (or grade B).
Pass T-Level with an overall grade of Distinction including grade B in the Core Component.
The T Level would normally be in Digital Production, Design and Development, Digital Business Services or Digital Support Services.
ABB-BBB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade B (or grade 6).
We will also consider applicants with grade 5/B in Mathematics if you are taking A-level Computer Science, Chemistry, Maths or Physics.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H2,H2,H3,H3.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average above 2.0 from 4 subjects.
Recent Informatics students have gone on placements at:
You develop your technical, team-working and transferable skills, and apply what you have learnt in your studies to a business environment.
View profile of Ian Mackie
Associate Professor in Sound-Based Interactions
View profile of Gianluca Memoli
Professor of Digital Media Systems
View profile of Paul Newbury
Professor Of Informatics
View profile of Thomas Nowotny
Head of Department
View profile of George Parisis
Professor of Computer Science
View profile of Bernhard Reus
Associate Tutor
View profile of Kingsley Sage
View profile of Carlos Sato
Lecturer in Computing Science
View profile of Chris Thornton
Head of School Engineering and Informatics
View profile of Ian Wakeman
Professor Of Computer Science
View profile of David Weir
IT skills are highly valued in many sectors.
Your degree also provides skills in flexibility, critical thinking, problem solving and attention to detail.
Our graduates find employment in a diverse range of fields, including:
You benefit from our links with industry, which are as diverse as American Express, Demos (the think-tank) and the V&A Museum.
Our curriculum is informed by sector experts who sit on an advisory board, ensuring that what we teach is what industry needs.
Leading companies such as Creative Assembly, IBM, Microsoft and Thales have visited recently to talk to our students.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence
Grades BC in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Merit overall with a grade B in Core Component
Find out more about the Department of Informatics

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computing-for-business-and-management-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Computing for Business and Management (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
Computing for Business and Management at Sussex combines a professional education in computing with specialisation in applications of computing to commerce.
You can also apply for a year working in industry.
An industrial placement gives you the chance to spend a year working with an organisation, in an area relevant to your course, while being paid.
It’s a proven way to fast-track your career.
SGI Tutor

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-management-studies-bsc:
Economics and Management Studies BSc (Hons)
Combine practical management knowledge with analytical economics skills and gain a competitive edge in your future management career.
You’ll explore different perspectives on similar issues, such as the role of investment within the economy and its influence on the business cycle.
You’ll learn the principles of economics and their application to a range of practical and topical issues, while gaining a solid grounding in diverse aspects of management and understanding the context within which modern business is conducted.
To help you gain quantitative skills, you’ll also study mathematics and statistics, along with studying econometrics to extend your knowledge of statistical techniques and research methods.
You choose from a range of economics and management options to consolidate your conceptual and practical knowledge.
You can broaden your experience further with an option to study abroad or apply for a professional placement year.
-
For more details, visit Department of Economics: Placements
View profile of Richard Dickens
View profile of Mohsen Veisi
View profile of Alison Bailey
Associate Professor in Information Systems
View profile of Ayomikun Idowu
Develop communication, analytical, management and numeracy skills with an Economics and Management Studies degree.
These skills mean you could go into a range of management positions in local and global organisations, government, banks, consultancies, marketing companies, insurance and accounting firms.
You can also benefit from joining the Economics society, which invites guest speakers and organises events, bringing together students from Economics courses as well as those from other courses who share an interest in economics.
There is also a Business Society and a Trading Society.
You are based in the University of Sussex Business School where you benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring by employers, networking, guest lecturers and development of your workplace skills.
The Business School is home to the renowned UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO) one of the most trusted voices in the analysis of the UK’s trading future after Brexit.
Facilities include the Bloomberg Lab where you can access real-time data from the Bloomberg Professional services platform.
Outside the classroom you can join the StartUp Sussex programme where you benefit from workshops from consultants in the Sussex Innovation Centre, guidance on developing business ideas and the chance to win StartUp funding.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-business-bsc:
International Business BSc (Hons)
Today’s businesses operate on a global scale.
Working within diverse environments requires strategic thinking, problem-solving and outstanding communication skills.
On this course you'll grow your understanding of international markets to prepare you for a dynamic career.
Join the EQUIS and AMBA-accredited University of Sussex Business School, where you’ll expand your international network.
By engaging with dedicated professionals, you’ll explore new perspectives, ideas and approaches within a vibrant community.
Throughout your studies, you’ll discover how core management processes shape international organisations.
You’ll learn about key business regions, including the EU, North America, East and South East Asia, and East and Central Europe.
You can also explore options including international negotiations management and finance in global business.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready for a range of roles in management and finance.
You might enter HR, marketing, retail management or financial management.
You may also decide to establish your own business as an entrepreneur.
Professor of Strategy and International Business
View profile of Vasiliki Bamiatzi
Associate Professor in International Business
View profile of Tom Buckley
Professor of International Management and Strategy
View profile of John Da Silva Luiz
Professor of Strategy and Innovation
View profile of Stephan Manning
Assistant Professor in International Business
View profile of Rishika Nayyar
View profile of Ha Nguyen
View profile of Vikrant Shirodkar
Professor of International Business
View profile of Roger Strange
Associate Professor in Entrepreneurship and Sustainability
View profile of Shova Thapa Karki
Join the University of Sussex Business School and benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring by employers, networking, guest lecturers and development of your workplace skills.
You’ll develop the skills and confidence to help shape global issues in business, management and society.
You’ll be prepared to take on a range of general or specialist roles in management and finance, including human resources, marketing, retail management and financial management.
Or you can use the skills to set up your own international business.
Outside the classroom you can join our StartUp Sussex programme where you benefit from workshops from consultants in the Sussex Innovation Centre, guidance on developing business ideas and the chance to win StartUp funding.
You can also join the Sussex Business Society and join like-minded students who have an interest in business.
Recent graduates have started jobs with:
Uniqlo
Healthspan.
(Department of Strategy and Marketing careers database)
Find out more about the Department of Strategy and Marketing

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-business-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
International Business (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
Explore innovative approaches to international management and develop a global understanding of business and society.
On this degree you study the core processes of management and discover how they shape international organisations.
You’ll learn about the world’s key business regions including the European Union, North America, East and South East Asia and East and Central Europe.
You investigate trends in international business and global strategy and examine marketing and human resource management from an international perspective.
There are a wide range of options including international negotiations management and finance in global business.
From modern languages to psychology and law, you take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
You have the opportunity to apply for a year in industry where you can put your knowledge into practice.
At the University of Sussex Business School, we have a wide range of well-established partnerships with global businesses.
For your final-year project you investigate a specialist area of international business.
You’ll engage with dedicated professionals, and will be challenged with new perspectives, ideas and approaches.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-business-with-a-study-abroad-year-bsc:
International Business (with a study abroad year) BSc (Hons)
On this four-year degree you study the core processes of management and discover how they shape international organisations.
After you finish Year 2 at Sussex, you have the opportunity to apply to study abroad at one of our partner universities, before returning to Sussex for your final year.
At the University of Sussex Business School, you’ll become part of a vibrant, multinational student and staff community.
This helps you expand your international network.
Studying abroad, you’ll have the chance to develop skills that are highly valued by employers:
This will boost your confidence and enhance your career prospects.
You have the opportunity to apply for a year studying at one of our international business school partners.
A study abroad experience is a great to broaden your academic and cultural experience, which will benefit your personal development and future career.
We have strategic partners in many countries including Australia, the United States, Japan, South Korea, Italy and Spain.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-with-business-and-management-llb:
Law with Business and Management LLB (Hons)
This course offers a qualifying law degree and also allows you to develop academic insight into the business environment.
As well as developing your knowledge of English law, you learn from experts with direct experience at every level of business.
You’re taught by research-active faculty, learning about both theoretical and practical aspects of law.
You’ll be part of a vibrant community with an active student law body.
Through the Sussex Law Clinics , you can gain valuable work experience of the law in action before you graduate .
We also have links with leading law firms, who sponsor our student competitions in national and international mooting, criminal advocacy, client interviewing, negotiation, mediation and legal debating .
Our supportive alumni are happy to provide career advice for current students.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade C.
Recent students from the Department of Law and the Department of Business and Management have gone on placements at:
Or you can choose to use your excellent communication skills in fields such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/marketing-and-management-bsc:
Marketing and Management BSc (Hons)
Today’s business environment is dynamic and competitive.
Survival, profitability and growth are key business drivers.
Modern leaders need to understand consumer behaviours, market trends, data and metrics to make effective strategic decisions.
Sustainability and social responsibility shape business practices.
This CIM-accredited course will prepare you to address both current and future business challenges.
You’ll join a Business School of leading academics who are shaping policy and practice.
Our culture of research excellence includes expertise in areas such as brand authenticity, AI in marketing, and technological innovation.
You’ll have access to our established industry connections, state-of-the-art facilities and enhanced careers support.
You can also join our dynamic Marketing Society, which hosts popular events such as panel discussions with industry experts and opportunities to connect with successful alumni.
Additionally, you can personalise your learning experience by selecting from a range of contemporary and business-focused modules.
You can tailor your degree to the areas of business you’re most interested in
Exploring different disciplines in two electives across Year 1 helps enrich your learning experience .
Professor of Marketing
View profile of Michael Beverland
Associate Professor in Strategy & Marketing -  Online Distance Learning
View profile of Sam Demirkol
Associate Professor in Marketing
View profile of Philip Jarman
Assistant Professor in Marketing
View profile of Matilde Lucheschi
View profile of Ngoc Luu
View profile of Kieran Rice
View profile of Deema Sonbol
View profile of Nicky Wells
On this course you gain the skills for a career in a range of occupations, including digital marketing, marketing and management consultancy, brand management, market research, and advertising.
Outside the classroom you can get careers advice and develop your key skills further by joining our Marketing Society, where you can attend events including:
As a graduate, you might choose to innovate within a global organisation.
Alternatively, you might launch your own company as an entrepreneur.
You could pursue a career in areas such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/marketing-and-management-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Marketing and Management (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
You'll join the EQUIS and AMBA-accredited University of Sussex Business School.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/marketing-and-management-with-psychology-bsc:
Marketing and Management with Psychology BSc (Hons)
From managing your customers to launching your own company or working with a global brand – this course prepares you for your future career path.
You will study a combination of marketing and management theory and practice.
And studying psychology will help you understand human behaviour relative to the business world.
On this course, you will:
You'll engage with expert professionals.
This will challenge you with new perspectives, ideas and approaches.
And your Academic Success Adviser will help you with academic study skills.
This includes critical thinking, presenting, academic writing, and note-making.
You also have the opportunity to combine different optional modules.
You can explore what interests you most across marketing, management and entrepreneurship.
There is also the opportunity to enrich your study experience by applying for a placement or to study abroad.
Associate Professor in Psychology
View profile of Sophie Anns
Professor of Psychology
View profile of Wendy Garnham
View profile of Roberto Gutierrez
Assistant Professor in Cognitive Psychology
View profile of Kristy Lascelles
View profile of Xuan Huy Nguyen
Join us and tap into a world of career opportunities and business connections.
You'll learn from:
Beyond the classroom, you could join panel discussions with industry experts, network with successful Sussex alumni or take advantage of the events organised by our student societies .
You'll graduate equipped with expertise from management, marketing, and psychology.
You could become a marketing, product or brand manager, work as a consumer psychologist or market analyst, or become an entrepreneur.
Other options include digital media, advertising, communications, human resources and public relations.
Ready to take the next step in your career journey?
Join us at the University of Sussex Business School.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/marketing-and-management-with-psychology-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Marketing and Management with Psychology (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology-with-business-and-management-bsc:
Psychology with Business and Management BSc (Hons)
Study in one of the UK’s largest schools of psychology while developing the skills to work in a fast-paced and fluctuating business world.
You can tailor your course by choosing from an extensive range of modules and be confident that you’ll be supported by expert staff throughout your degree .
You’ll also gain an understanding of business and management.
Whatever your area of interest – clinical, child development, cognitive, forensic, health, social and applied psychology or neuroscience – we have the expertise to support you.
You’ll enjoy some of the most advanced research facilities for studying psychology anywhere in the country.
These include a child development research suite and a human psychophysiology laboratory .
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
The Access course should contain Psychology or be in Science or Social Science.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (grade C).
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade B in the A-level and M1 and M1 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subject, we would normally expect you to have grades AB in the two A-levels and M1 in the Pre-U.
Grade B at A-level and Distinction, Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades AB in two A-levels plus Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade 4 (grade C).
Applied Science or Health and Social Care.
You will need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade C
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs grade A*-C (9-4), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 92% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 4 or better.
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AAABB from 5 grade 12 courses.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of 4.5
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average 19/20 and above.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result between EEMM
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of 14/20.
German Abitur with an overall result of 1.8 or better.
Apolytirion with an overall average of 19/20 will be considered for first-year entry.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 5, 4 from three subjects including two electives.
85% from ISC Indian School certificate of Education (CISCE) 85% from SSC All India Senior School Certificate Examination (CBSE) 85% HSC Higher Secondary Certificate ( Maharashtra )
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H1,H2,H2,H3
Pass the Diplome de Fin d’Etudes Secondaires with 48 points overall.
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of ABB- AAB, Matriculation with a least a grade of 3.5 or UEC with an overall average grade A2,A2,B3,B3,B3,B3 ( or average 77%).
Norwegian Vitnemal Fra Den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of 4.5
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 80th percentile.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 18/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.7
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average above 1.5 from 4 subjects.
We look at your full profile taking into account everything you are studying, including the high school graduation diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests  and/or ACT grades  We are particularly interested in AP tests and would ideally like to see three good AP scores.
Advanced Placement Tests with scores of 5, 5, 4 from three subjects.
Reina: I think the best thing about my course would be 100% the content.
So I came into University wanting to scientifically analyse what teamwork was.
And for me, Psychology with Business and Management, it allows me to kind of explore that question from a psychological and a business management point of view, which was perfect for what I actually wanted to do as my academic interest.
So 100% the content and the modules I get to choose at University.
Recent students have gone on placements at institutions including:
View profile of Elian Fink
Assistant Professor in Psychology
View profile of Lazaros Gonidis
Professor of Neurovascular Stuff
View profile of Catherine Hall
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
View profile of Jennifer Mankin
View profile of Emiliano Merlo
View profile of Eleanor Miles
View profile of Kyriaki Nikolaou
Head of School - Psychology
View profile of Alison Pike
View profile of Ryan Scott
Lecturer in Psychology
View profile of Martina Sladekova
View profile of Dave Smalley
View profile of Jenny Terry
You’ll develop skills in critical thinking, research and data analysis.
These are essential for careers in professional psychology or research.
Additionally, you can use your business skills within fields including finance, marketing, retail management or human resources.
Grades BC in two A-levels plus Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
BCC from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
Find out more about the School of Psychology

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/chemistry-bsc:
Chemistry BSc (Hons)
New medicines, new materials, new sources of energy – they can all change lives.
And they’re all down to chemistry.
The more we understand, the more we’ll be able to make our world a better, more sustainable place to live in.
At Sussex, we have a long history of excellence in both our teaching and research – from Nobel Prize winners to our strong links with the Sussex Drug Discovery Centre .
You’ll learn from leading chemists whose world-changing research influences their teaching.
From Year 1, you’ll get hands-on practical experience in the lab.
By Year 3, you’ll have the opportunity to collect and analyse data from our many facilities.
These including Mass Spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy.
On your course, you’ll:
When you graduate, you’re prepared for a variety of careers such as:
You could work for leading companies including GlaxoSmithKline, Deloitte or Johnson Matthey.
You could also consider jobs in the NHS, science publishing or education.
And with your data-handling and analytical skills, you could also develop a career outside of science.
We also offer this course as a four-year MChem , as a four-year MChem with an industrial placement year , or as a four-year MChem with summer research placements .
A-levels must include Chemistry grade B.
The Access to HE Diploma will need to be in Science and contain substantial amounts of Level 3 credit in Chemistry.
You may wish to consider taking A-level Chemistry in addition to the Access to HE Diploma.
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade B at A-level and, M1 and M2 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades BB at A-level and M1 in Pre-U.
A-levels or Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects must include Chemistry.
Higher Levels must include Chemistry, with a grade of at least 5.
A-levels must include Chemistry.
A-levels must include Chemistry at grade B.
Highers must include Chemistry.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Chemistry is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.0).
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of 13/20
Professor of Organic Chemistry
View profile of Mark Bagley
Professor Of Physical Chemistry
View profile of Wendy Brown
Director of Student Experience
View profile of Qiao Chen
View profile of Kevin Clark
Professor of Theoretical and Computational Quantum Chemistry
View profile of Hazel Cox
Associate Professor in Inorganic Chemistry
View profile of Ian Crossley
Reader in Smart Organic Materials
View profile of Barnaby Greenland
Assistant Professor in Chemistry
View profile of Storm Hassell-Hart
Associate Professor In Physical/Inorganic Chemistry
View profile of George Kostakis
Professor of Chemistry (Inorganic Chemistry)
View profile of Richard Layfield
View profile of Deborah Sneddon
Professor of Bioorganic Chemistry/Director of Sussex Drug Discovery Centre
View profile of John Spencer
View profile of James Stubbing
Associate Professor in Inorganic Physical Chemistry
View profile of John Turner
Associate Professor In Physical Chemistry
View profile of Alfredo Vargas
Associate Professor in Chemistry
View profile of Jon Wilden
Many of our graduates go on to PhD study and research careers in organic, inorganic, physical or computational chemistry.
You can also pursue careers in a range of fields such as:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Chemistry
BCC, including grade B in Chemistry.
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences: Chemistry

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/chemistry-mchem:
Chemistry MChem
And in addition, in your integrated Masters year , you’ll develop advanced research skills working alongside our chemists.
This experience prepares you for a future in scientific research and a variety of careers.
We also offer this course with an industrial placement year , with summer research placements , or as a three-year BSc .
You will need substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in Chemistry or will need to have taken A-level Chemistry in addition to the Access to HE Diploma.
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades AB in the two A-levels and M2 in the Pre-U.
A-levels or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subjects must include Chemistry.
You will need Higher Level Chemistry, with grade 5.
Highers must include Chemistry, with at least grade B.
Ideally, you will also have Chemistry as an Advanced Higher.
AAB-ABB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in Chemistry with good results (at least a score of 8.0).

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/chemistry-with-an-industrial-placement-year-mchem:
Chemistry (with an industrial placement year) MChem
In addition, the optional year in industry is a great opportunity for you to gain real-world experience of working in the chemistry sector.
And in your integrated Masters year , you’ll develop advanced research skills by working alongside our chemists.
All this prepares you for a future in scientific research or a variety of other careers.
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , with summer research placements , or as a three-year BSc .
Grade A in A-level and Distinction, Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
You can apply to spend up to one year away from the University on an industrial placement, normally either in the UK or Europe.
During this year you take two distance-learning modules, supported by regular contact with a designated tutor.
Recent Chemistry students have gone on placements at:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/chemistry-with-summer-research-placements-mchem:
Chemistry with Summer Research Placements MChem
In addition, you’ll have the opportunity to work as a member of one of our research teams during a summer research placement every year (subject to satisfactory performance).
You’ll receive a stipend to cover living expenses.
We also offer this course without summer research placements , with an industrial placement year , or as a three-year BSc .
A*AA
A-levels must include Chemistry, at least grade A.
D3, D3, M2
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have a grade A* in the A-level, and D3 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades A*A in 2 A-levels and D3 in the Pre-U.
A-levels or Cambridge Pre-Us must include Chemistry.
36 points overall from the full IB Diploma.
Higher Levels must include Chemistry, with a grade of 6.
Grades AA in A-levels and Distinction* in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
A-levels must include Chemistry
You will need an A-level in Chemistry, grade A, in addition to the BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma.
AAAAA
Highers must include Chemistry, at grade A.
You should normally also have an Advanced Higher in Chemistry (grade A).
Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-level grades A*AA
Overall result of at least 83%
Evidence of existing high level of academic ability in Chemistry is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.5).
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and a score of 95% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 2 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of 1.6 for first-year entry.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) 80% from 6 grade 12 U, U/C or M courses British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AAAAB from 5 grade 12 courses We also recognise the High School Diploma from other provinces -including Alberta, Manitoba, New Brunswick- where we look for strong performance in grade 12 subjects, and the Diplome d'Etudes Collegiales (DEC) from Quebec.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of at least 5.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or Studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 10 on the new grading scale.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result of at least EEEM
French Baccalauréat with an overall final result of 15/20.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with a good result (13/20) in Chemistry.
German Abitur with an overall result of 1.6.
You will need a very good final result in Chemistry (at least 14/15).
Apolytirion with an overall average of at least 19.5 will be considered for first-year entry.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Chemistry with a score of 20 or the Pan Hellenic in Chemistry with an overall score of 18.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 5, 5 from three subjects including two electives
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H1,H2,H2,H2.
You must have at least grade O3 in Mathematics and two sciences.
Bagrut, with at least 8/10 in at least six subjects, including one five-unit subject.
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of 90/100.
Norwegian Vitnemal Fra Den Videregaende Opplaering - Pass with an overall average of 5
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 85th percentile including Chemistry.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 19/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 9 including a score of 9 in Chemistry.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.2 from 4 subjects including Chemistry.
Secondary School Leaving Diploma or Matura with at least 26 points overall.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of at least 8.5.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade A in Chemistry.
We look at your full profile taking into account everything you are studying, including the high school graduation diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests and/or ACT grades  We are particularly interested in AP tests and would ideally like to see three good AP scores Advanced Placement Tests with scores of 5,5,5 in three subjects.
Each summer throughout your degree (except your final year), you can apply for a research placement based in the Department of Chemistry.
You’ll work on cutting-edge projects and contribute to the work of the research group you’re placed with.
It’s a stimulating intellectual challenge, where you can hone your research skills and gain practical experience for a research-based career.
You’ll receive funding to cover your living expenses during any placements you take.
Find out about other placements and internships
AAA, including A in Chemistry
Grade A in A-level and  Distinction, Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades AA in A-levels plus Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/childhood-and-youth-theory-and-practice-ba:
Childhood and Youth: Theory and Practice BA (Hons)
This degree will prepare you for a range of rewarding careers.
You'll graduate ready to make a difference in the lives of children and young people.
You'll learn what matters to children, what shapes their lives and creates injustices.
You'll explore different approaches to working with young people, and be able to apply these in professional settings.
This course has a strong academic reputation.
You'll study a broad and varied curriculum covering early childhood to young adulthood.
Topics includes:
You'll study different disciplinary perspectives, including sociology, psychology, anthropology, history and education.
This broad understanding will allow you to develop your own interests, providing a strong foundation for a variety of careers.
Our knowledgeable staff are internationally renowned for their work in childhood and youth studies.
The Centre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youth influences childhood and youth policies nationally and globally.
You'll gain practical experience through placements and work-based learning every year.
We have established links with excellent providers across the sector.
This includes nurseries, children’s centres, family hubs, local charities, specialist and mainstream schools, and more.
You'll gain valuable experience applying your knowledge in real-world settings and explore a range of career options.
You'll be part of a diverse, supportive community of students and staff who are passionate about making a positive difference to children and young people.
BBB-BBC
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs 9-4 (or A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
We welcome applications from both recent school leavers and those returning to education.
For non school leavers, we look for evidence of recent study and/or relevant experience and may require you to produce a piece of written work in order to assess your academic level.
Initial selection, however, is based on the strength of your UCAS application.
You're invited to contact the admissions tutor to discuss any queries you may have about your eligibility.
Selection decisions will normally be taken on the basis of your UCAS application only.
There will be no mandatory interviews for Childhood and Youth: Theory and Practice.
In certain circumstances you may be accepted onto the course if you can demonstrate the ability to study at the appropriate level.
You may be accepted onto the course if you have equivalent professional qualifications and/or professional experience.
We particularly welcome applications from mature applicants who demonstrate academic potential, enthusiasm and commitment to study.
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 18-21 credits at Distinction
The Access course should be in the humanities or social sciences.
M2 M2 M2
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade B at A-level and, M2 and M2 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades BB at A-level and M2 in Pre-U.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs grades 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
30 points overall from the full IB Diploma.
Grade A
Grade B in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma
Grades BB in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma should be in Health & Social Care, Business, Sport, Applied Science, Performing Arts, IT or Media
ABBBB - BBBBB
Preferably Education and Childcare
BBB-BBC from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Overall result of at least 75%
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 85% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 5 or better.
Maturatna Svjedodžba with an overall score of 4.
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average of 18 /20.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of at least 12/20.
Apolytirion with an overall average of at least 18 will be considered for first-year entry.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 4,4,4 from three subjects including two electives.
Erettsegi/Matura with a good averageof at least 55544.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H2,H2,H2,H3,H3
Italian Diploma di Maturità or Diploma Pass di Esame di Stato with a Final Diploma mark of at least 78/100.
Our entry requirements are guidelines and we assess all applications on a case-by-case basis
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark of 16/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.0.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 2.0 from 4 subjects
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of at least 7.5
All candidates offered a place on the course will be required to satisfactorily complete
						an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check, including a check of all cautions and warnings as well as convictions, before their place on the course
						is confirmed.
International students will additionally be required to obtain a recent criminal record certificate from their home country.
A list of admissible
						certificates can be found on the UK Government website: Criminal
						records checks for overseas applicants .
Placements help you to link theory and practice, and give you the opportunity to link your dissertation to a professional setting.
Currently, we offer two five-week work-based placements during the course of the degree:
Placements are in a variety of settings, including schools, youth centres, and alternative and supportive services.
Associate Professor in Childhood and Youth S
View profile of Liam Berriman
Head of School - Education and Social Work
View profile of Janet Boddy
Associate Professor in Education
View profile of Rachel Burr
Honorary Assistant Professor
View profile of Tracey Fuller
Professor of Educational and Social Disadvantage
View profile of Louise Gazeley
Associate Professor in Primary Education
View profile of Christina Hancock
View profile of Lucy Harknett
Professor of Sociology of Gender and Education
View profile of Tamsin Hinton-Smith
Assistant Professor in Childhood and Youth
View profile of Perpetua Kirby
View profile of Richard McFahn
Assistant Professor in Applied Social Science
View profile of May Nasrawy
View profile of Charlene Rumsby
Professor of Childhood & Youth Studies
View profile of Rachel Thomson
View profile of Matthew Westgarth
As a student on this BA, you have the opportunity to work with supportive faculty on your future career plan.
We also stay in touch with, and continue to offer our help to, all our graduates long after graduation.
Opportunities are rich and varied.
Equipped with placement experiences, recent graduates have entered the workplace in roles such as:
Some of our graduates have gained places on the prestigious JET (Japan Exchange and Teaching) Programme and the South Korean government’s teaching programme.
We currently have a graduate studying for, and student considering, a law conversion degree.
Other graduates have started postgraduate training for roles such as:
Find out more about the Department of Education

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/primary-and-early-years-education-with-qualified-teacher-status-ba:
Primary and Early Years Education (with Qualified Teacher Status) BA (Hons)
Teaching is a rewarding career – you’ll have the opportunity to make a difference to the life outcomes for children you’ll work with.
On this course, you’ll develop the skills, knowledge and enthusiasm to become a successful and creative teacher in two phases of education:
At Sussex, you’ll learn from experienced and passionate members of staff.
You’ll gain the confidence to apply your knowledge and ideas to both your academic studies at University and to your practice during your school placements.
You’ll spend at least 120 days in a school throughout your degree – supported by a mentor and the school professional tutor.
You’ll also have the opportunity to apply to study abroad.
In your final year, you’ll undertake a research project on an aspect of Primary Education that you’re passionate about.
This will give you the skills to:
We’ll support you at every stage of your degree.
As soon as you apply, we’ll help you get ready for your interview.
You’ll be supported by a personal tutor throughout the course together with module, year and course leaders.
And once you’re in the final year of your degree, we’ll work with you towards applying and interviewing for your first post as a teacher.
We’re also keen to keep in touch and support you in your time as an early careers teacher.
You must also have GCSE (or equivalent) in English language, Mathematics and Science with at least grade 4 in each (or grade C) in each.
If you have taken Combined Science GCSE, you must have a score of 4,4 or better.
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 21 credits at Distinction
The Access course should be in the humanities, education or social sciences.
If you have taken Combined Science GCSE, you must have a score of 4,4 or better
You will need evidence of good ability in English, Mathematics and Science.
If you are taking the IB Diploma the science will need to be in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
If you are taking GCSEs, we would expect you to have at least grade 4 (or grade C) in English, Mathematics and Science.
You must also have GCSE (or equivalent) in English, Mathematics and Science with at least grade 4 in each (or grade C).
Grade B in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma
Grades BB in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma preferably in Business, Sport, Applied Science, Performing Arts, IT, Health and Social Care or Media.
You will need Scottish National 5 in English language, Mathematics and Science at grade C.
BBB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
You must also have GCSE (or equivalent) in English, Mathematics and Science with at least grade C in each (or grade 4).
If you have taken Combined Science GCSE, you must have a score of C,C (4,4) or better
You will need evidence of good ability in English, Mathematics and Science.
Pass Ylioppilastutkinto with overall final result of at least MMMM
You must have at least grade O4 in Mathematics in English, Mathematics and Science.
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of BBB, Matriculation with a least a grade of 3 or UEC with an overall average grade B3 (75%).
7.0 overall, including at least 6.5 in each component
Check your IELTS qualification meets all of our language requirements
185 overall, including at least 176 in each skill.
Check your Cambridge Advanced Certificate in English (CAE) qualification meets all of our language requirements
185 overall, including at least 176 in each skill
Check your Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE) qualification meets all of our language requirements
67 overall, including at least 62 in all four skills.
Check your Pearson (PTE Academic) qualification meets all of our language requirements
95 overall, including at least 22 in Listening, 23 in Reading, 23 in Speaking, 24 in Writing.
Find out more about specific entry procedures for this course.
Angelé: I would say my favourite thing about my course is...
my lecturers, and...
the staff members at the University.
They’re a really close knit...
I feel like as a family in our course, especially with teaching.
I feel like they’re...
researchers, academics, some of them have published books.
Some of them are still teachers now in the classroom.
And you can really feel the atmosphere in our lectures, which makes it really enjoyable to study.
You’ll spend at least 20 days in a school in Year 1, 40 days in Year 2 and 60 days in Year 3, and you’ll spend time in classes across the Primary age range.
We have very strong historic partnerships with local schools across the region.
This, together with a knowledgeable and supportive group of mentors and University tutors, gives you all you need to enter the profession with confidence – and with creative ideas to inspire all the children you teach with a love of learning .
At Sussex, we value getting to know and supporting each one of our students and you’ll be taught in relatively small groups.
Our taught sessions are interactive and engaging.
They’re designed to give you the opportunity to learn from your peers as well as from your tutors.
We have a designated teaching room that has been set up and equipped as a primary school classroom.
It contains lots of resources for you to experiment with and to help you plan the lessons you’ll be teaching during your school placements.
The course incorporates visits and trips around Brighton & Hove and Sussex to support your learning of the various curriculum subjects and includes a day dedicated to Forest School activities.
We’re delighted to offer our Initial Teacher Education courses in partnership with the University of Chichester as the accredited provider for the Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) element of the course.
On successful completion of the course, you’ll be awarded a University of Sussex BA.
The course is designed, managed and delivered by expert faculty from our School of Education and Social Work .
All teaching takes place on our beautiful campus and in the classrooms of trusted partnership schools across Sussex.
Assistant Professor in Primary Education
View profile of Fliss Bull
View profile of Katherine Cole
View profile of Liz Cousins
Assistant Professor in Primary and Early Years Education
View profile of Gillian Emerson
School Tutor
View profile of Catherine Messenger
View profile of Tamzin Nobes
View profile of Hayley Preston-Smith
Assistant Professor in Education
View profile of Jane Sedgewick
View profile of Rob Snow
View profile of Marcelo Staricoff
View profile of Alka Townend
View profile of Jo Tregenza
Visiting Assistant Professor
View profile of Claire Watts
This course gives you Newly Qualified Teacher Status, as well as an internationally recognised academic qualification.
We have an excellent record in helping our qualified teachers secure their first job and offer specialist training on drafting applications.
The degree also equips you for careers working with children, young people, their families and their carers, in organisations such as:
As a student on the Primary and Early Years Education (with Qualified Teacher Status) course, you can begin work as a qualified teacher on graduation.
Grades BC in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
You will be required to have a satisfactory Health Check.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/climate-justice-sustainability-and-development-ba:
Climate Justice, Sustainability and Development BA (Hons)
Climate change affects every aspect of our everyday lives.
From our homes to our health, rising temperatures and extreme weather are having a devastating impact across the globe.
This course is designed for students who are concerned about the impacts of climate change and how we respond to it, but are more drawn to questions of politics, activism and human rights than natural science.
Climate justice focuses on the social equity, historical responsibility and economic transformations involved in climate change.
It is of critical importance to policymakers, NGOs, activists and corporations alike.
The course draws on Sussex's world-leading expertise in development, sustainability and social justice.
By studying at Sussex, you’ll:
Our BA is interactive and solutions-focused.
You’ll learn both inside and outside of the classroom.
You’ll have field trip opportunities, visit local rewilding projects and attend lessons in our campus Forest Food Garden.
Studying this course will allow you to take action around climate change, rather than just study it, and you’ll graduate ready to change the world.
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation AABBB from 5 grade 12 courses
Apolytirion of Lykeion with an overall average 18.5/20 and above.
In your first year, you’ll be introduced to the core ideas underpinning climate justice and what a call to ‘decarbonise and decolonise’ might mean.
You’ll investigate the existing frameworks for understanding climate change and sustainable development, as well as develop your own critiques and alternatives.
Practical and study skills will be included within and alongside your core modules, encouraging you to engage with movements and ideas for addressing the climate and environmental crises.
42%: Lecture 36%: Seminar 22%: Practical
You’ll have the opportunity to take part in:
Assessment methods typically include coursework with a wide range of creative and authentic assessments .
33%: Coursework 67%: Written assessment
This breaks down into about 176 hours of contact time and about 1,024 hours of independent study.
In your second year you’ll gain a deeper understanding of justice struggles across the world and how they challenge ideas around our relationship to the natural world – and each other.
You’ll have the opportunity to analyse policy positions and challenge them from the perspective of economic and social justice, while engaging with transnational movements and developing critical practitioner and activist skills.
Year 2 is also where you’ll start to decide on your own areas of interest, tailoring your modules to the topics that you care about most.
Teaching methods typically include lectures and seminars, with practical options available amongst the electives .
52%: Lecture 48%: Seminar
20%: Coursework 20%: Group work 60%: Written assessment
In your third year you will define your own research interests and areas of expertise.
All students will study modules on sustainability policy and the fight for environmental justice, but alongside this decide on the areas of the climate debate that they will specialise in, whether policing and protest or practical skills and project design.
This might be achieved through independent research with a thesis, specialist modules taught by University of Sussex experts or work experience.
Teaching methods typically include seminars, workshops and masterclasses.
100%: Seminar
In addition to your lectures and seminars, you’ll have the opportunity to take part in:
Assessment methods typically include independent research projects, policy assessments, podcasts, blogs and essays.
.
25%: Coursework 75%: Written assessment
This breaks down into about 132 hours of contact time and about 1,068 hours of independent study.
Lecturer in Geography, Climate Changeand Society
View profile of David Armstrong McKay
Associate Professor in Physical Geography
View profile of Melissa Lazenby
View profile of Will Lock
This course will prepare you for careers that engage with the complex realities of climate change – and that make a real difference in the world.
You’ll gain the skills and knowledge to enter a wide range of sectors and emerging green careers.
Whether in policy making, campaigning, sustainable business strategy or investigative journalism, expertise in the social dimensions of the climate crisis is of increasing demand.
By the end of your degree, you'll be able to interrogate the policy frameworks and technical approaches that have been used to respond to climate change globally and locally.
You'll also understand the tools used in the private sector, such as carbon accounting and climate insurance and learn to work with growing uncertainty.
Example career paths for graduates include:
Find out more about the Department of International Development

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-sustainable-development-and-climate-change-bsc:
Geography, Sustainable Development and Climate Change BSc (Hons)
Climate change and sustainability are two of the biggest global issues of our time.
This course will empower you to be an advocate for sustainability.
You'll learn to understand environmental challenges and the ability to develop strategic solutions to mitigate or prevent further environmental damage.
As a student, you’ll join the Department of Geography in our School of Global Studies, home to leading academics who are shaping international climate policy.
You’ll take an interdisciplinary view on the scientific basis of claims of global climate change.
You'll look at the human responsibility and the future implications of climate change.
By studying both physical and human geography, you’ll learn about environmental management and sustainable development.
You’ll have a choice of excellent local and global field-trip destinations, giving you the opportunity to take your learning out into the field.
You’ll graduate with the expertise to pursue careers in a range of climate related fields such as environmental consultancy, urban and regional planning, sustainable development, conservation, education, policy-making, and research.
A-levels must include Geography or another science subject at grade B.
The Access Diploma would ideally contain substantial amounts of Level 3 credit in Geography and/or another science subject.
You must have either Geography or another science at A-level grade B or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject with a least M2.
Including at least 5 in higher level Geography or another science subject.
A-level in Geography or another science subject.
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma would preferably be in Applied Science.
If not in Applied Science you should have an A-level in Geography or another science along side your BTEC.
Highers must include both either Geography or another science, with at least grade A.
Ideally, you will also have this as Advanced Highers.
A-levels must include Geography or another science subject.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography or another science subject (normally with a final grade of at least 8.0).
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography or another science.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography or another science is desirable and you must have a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography or another science is desirable and a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography or another science and you must have a good level of Mathematics.
You will normally need to have a final mark of 12/20 in Geography or another science subject.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Geography or another science subject (normally with a final mark of 12/15).
Irish Leaving Certificate Higher Level subjects must include Geography or another Science at grade H1.
Professor of Environmental Systems Science and Director of SSRP
View profile of Joseph Alcamo
Reader in Global Change Ecology
View profile of Alexander Antonarakis
Associate Professor in Applied Geomorphology
View profile of John Barlow
View profile of Andrew Hook
Professor of Climate Science & Society
View profile of Dominic Kniveton
Professor of Permafrost Science
View profile of Julian Murton
Reader in Geography
View profile of Pedram Rowhani
Professor in Climate Change
View profile of Martin Todd
Reader in Climate Sciences
View profile of Yi Wang
When you graduate, we’ll support you to find work in the climate profession.
You’ll be prepared for careers demanding specialist knowledge of climate change and sustainable development .
These skills are in increasing demand in the Global North and South.
You’ll have the cultural agility to compete in the global job market across a huge range of sectors including:
As a graduate, you’ll also be prepared for further study, such as Masters degrees in Geography; Development; or Energy, Sustainability and Innovation .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-development-ba:
International Development BA (Hons)
Studying International Development at Sussex will help you develop the knowledge and tools to make a positive difference in the world.
Global challenges such as climate change, conflict and migration shape our world.
You’ll explore these issues through their historical legacies and contemporary power structures.
Then you'll better understand how we can address them.
On your course, you’ll learn from specialists from different perspectives and disciplines.
Join our vibrant and welcoming community.
We are passionate about achieving greater social and environmental justice.
When you graduate, you’ll be able to contribute to just and equitable change.
You'll open the door to rewarding careers in areas such as development policy, practice and advocacy.
When I came to the Open Day with my dad, he turned to me at the end and said, “Gosh, If I could go to university again, I’d really want to do this course!”
I think I first heard the term ‘Development Studies’ when I was doing my A-levels.
I found it quite difficult being able to find a mix of everything that I was interested in because I think I was quite broad in what I wanted to do.
I would describe Development Studies as kind of a mix between looking at politics, sociology, anthropology.
It is very diverse, and it’s all kind of how those interlink and how they affect each other and the ways in which we can create positive global change.
First year was very much an introduction to everything that you needed to carry on studying International Development.
When you then move into second year, it gets more specific.
You get to choose a couple of the modules that you want to do.
As soon as you get into third year, it’s what you want the course to be, it’s what you want International Development to be.
You’ve got so much room to explore, so much room to be creative with what you look at.
I chose modules to do with conflict, gender, development, and that’s the way that I drove my dissertation as well.
My friends who have done the course have gone exactly the same route as me, but looked at something completely different.
I’ve specifically been looking at the Democratic Republic of Congo.
I’ve been looking at how men as victims of sexual and gender-based violence have been excluded from policy, and what that means for both men and women and how the gender dynamics really affect that, and how that policy is inadequate.
I'm going to fast now!
I think I’m getting too into it!
[On screen text – 1st in the world for Development Studies (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023) ]
Yes, it obviously looks very good on the website!
And I think you can definitely see it in the work that comes out from the lecturers.
And I think you can also see it reflected in the students because they see how passionate people are about what they're teaching.
[laughs] Well...
I cut all my hair off, that's quite a big difference!
I think that came from confidence that I got from being at Sussex.
I don't think I would have done it if I went to another uni.
More seriously, I think that I am able now to really look at a topic and really understand every single aspect and facet of it, look at all of the arguments and critically evaluate it, and come to my own conclusions and not just take something for face value or what I've been told.
View profile of Nile Davies
View profile of Julia Hartviksen
View profile of Ushehwedu Kufakurinani
A degree in International Development from the University of Sussex gives you a pathway into a broad range of development-focused, global careers, but you will also develop organisational, communication and interpersonal skills that will benefit you in any future job.
You can use your International Development degree for careers in:
Throughout the degree, we work with you to establish how you want to make an impact in the world – and help you to get there.
We also support and stay in touch with our graduates – you can attend specialist careers events and receive careers advice from Sussex, even after when you have completed your studies.
Recent International Development graduates have started jobs as or in:
( International Development careers database)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sustainable-automotive-engineering-beng:
Sustainable Automotive Engineering BEng (Hons)
Sustainability is becoming more and more important in the automotive industry.
Car manufacturers and suppliers are considering how to implement sustainable processes in the development and manufacture of new vehicles.
At Sussex, we cover many aspects of sustainable automotive engineering.
On this course, you’ll:
Our research feeds directly into our teaching.
You’ll benefit from our work in the Dynamics, Control, and Vehicle research group .
Research projects include automotive on-board diagnostics systems, intelligent controllers and autonomous vehicles.
You’ll study in our Future Technologies Labs that incorporate computer suites and new automation/robotics facilities.
There’s also a dedicated manufacturing lab with facilities such as CNC machines and 3-D printers.
In our Formula Student projects, you’ll get the chance to be part of a team to design and build an electric single-seat racing car and enter it into a competition.
During your time at Sussex, you’ll be supported by dedicated academic advisers, as well as a team of student mentors.
In addition, you’ll benefit from our links to world-leading automotive companies.
As a graduate, you’ll have the knowledge and skills to meet the challenges and changes in the automotive industry, including those related to sustainability.
Our courses are accredited to include the 2023 intake.
We are currently in the process of securing re-accreditation for the 2024 intake onwards, according to the rules of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, which require periodic re-accreditation.
We also offer this course with an industrial placement year , as a four-year MEng , or as a five-year MEng with an industrial placement year .
A-levels must include Mathematics, with at least grade B.
You will normally need A-level Mathematics, grade B, in addition to the Access to HE Diploma.
All Access applicants will be assessed on a case by case basis.
You must have either Mathematics at A-level grade B or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject with at least an M2.
Higher Levels must include Mathematics, with a grade of 5.
A-level must be Mathematics at grade B.
A-levels must include Mathematics at grade B.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs grades 9-4 (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma should be in Engineering and must include a Distinction in Calculus to Solve Engineering Problems or if taking the BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma in Engineering you must gain a Distinction in the Further Mathematics for Engineering Technicians.
GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 is essential (or grade B).
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs 9-4 (A*-C ), including good grades in relevant subjects.
You should normally have an Advanced Higher in Mathematics (grade B).
A-levels must include Mathematics, grade B.
Evidence of existing academic ability at a high level in Mathematics is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.0).
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 88% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER,  or a Queensland OP of 4 to 5 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of between 2.0 better for first-year entry.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of 13/20.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with a final result of at least 12/20 in Mathematics.
Evidence of existing academic ability at a high level in Mathematics is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 12/15).
Apolytirion with an overall average of 18.5 will be considered for first-year entry.
75% - 80% from ISC Indian School certificate of Education (CISCE) 80% from SSC All India Senior School Certificate Examination (CBSE) 80% HSC Higher Secondary Certificate ( Maharashtra )
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades of ABB, Matriculation with a least a grade of 3.0 or UEC with an overall average grade B3 (75%).
You must also have a score of C6 or above in WAEC/SSC English
Sri Lankan A-levels
You join all first-year students in the School of Engineering and Informatics in a team-based, week-long activity, the Global Design Challenge.
Each team designs a solution to a problem faced by a community in the developing world.
You develop transferable skills, benefiting both your studies and your future employability.
You’ll be welcomed into our active, student-run engineering societies, and benefit from our partnerships with:
Professor of Mechanical Engineering
View profile of Julian Dunne
View profile of Romeo Glovnea
Associate Professor in Thermo-fluid Mechanics
View profile of Vasudevan Kanjirakkad
Associate Professor in Mechanical Engineering (Computer Aided Design)
View profile of Kun Liang
Reader in Structural Dynamics
View profile of Yevgen Petrov
Associate Professor in Mechanical Engineering
View profile of Mark Puttock-Brown
View profile of Martin Rose
Professor of Thermodynamics and Fluid Mechanics
View profile of Esra Sorguven
View profile of Chang Wang
View profile of William Wang
Throughout your studies, you’ll develop skills such as:
As a graduate, these skills and your specialist knowledge will help you secure technical and managerial jobs in the automotive and other industries.
Some of our graduates are now working at:
BCC, including grade B in Mathematics.
Find out about the Department of Engineering and Design

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sustainable-automotive-engineering-meng:
Sustainable Automotive Engineering MEng
We also offer this course as a five-year MEng with an industrial placement year , as a three-year BEng , or as a four-year BEng with an industrial placement year .
A-levels must include Mathematics.
D3, D3 and M2 in the Pre-U
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade A in the A-level and D3 and M2 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principle Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades AB in the two A-levels and D3 in the Pre-U.
You must have either Mathematics at A-level or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject.
For entry in 2021, either Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches or Mathematics: Applications and Interpretation at Higher Level will be accepted.
We would normally expect you to have an Advanced Higher in Mathematics (grade B).
AAB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and over 92% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER.
Or a Queensland OP of 3 or below.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or studentereksamen with an overall average of at least 8 on the new grading scale.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with a final result of at least 13/20 in Mathematics.
You will need a very good final result in Mathematics (at least 12/15).
80% from ISC Indian School certificate of Education (CISCE) 80% from SSC All India Senior School Certificate Examination (CBSE) 80% HSC higher Secondary Certificate ( Maharashtra )
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics to the highest level is essential.
Evidence of existing academic ability at a high level in Mathematics is essential
Grade B in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sustainable-automotive-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-beng:
Sustainable Automotive Engineering (with an industrial placement year) BEng (Hons)
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , as a four-year MEng , or as a five-year MEng with an industrial placement year .
Find out more about placements and internships .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sustainable-automotive-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-meng:
Sustainable Automotive Engineering (with an industrial placement year) MEng
We also offer this course as a four-year MEng without the industrial placement year , as a three-year BEng , or as a four-year BEng with an industrial placement year .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computer-science-bsc:
Computer Science BSc (Hons)
Computer Science at Sussex gives you a comprehensive professional education in computing, preparing you for the constantly evolving industry that’s revolutionising our lives.
Our BSc covers the fundamental concepts of computing, and the scientific and engineering principles for their application.
It centres around the analysis, usage and creation of software systems fit for purpose in a highly connected and data-driven world.
You’ll graduate with the knowledge and skills to take your computing career into a wide range of industries.
We also offer this course with an industrial placement year , as a four-year MComp , or as a five-year MComp with an industrial placement year .
Associate Professor in Foundations of Computation
View profile of Martin Berger
Professor of Complex Systems
View profile of Luc Berthouze
View profile of Niel De Beaudrap
Associate Professor in Computer Science & AI
View profile of Ronald Grau
Professor of Interaction Design
View profile of Kate Howland
Professor of Machine Learning
View profile of Novi Quadrianto
Leading companies such as Creative Assembly, IBM, Microsoft and Thales have visited recently to talk to our students.
Recent graduates have gone on to jobs such as:
data analyst
machine learning engineer
programmer
software developer
associate tools programmer
Our recent graduates are employed at companies including Rockstar Games, Tripadvisor, Sky UK, IBM and BAE Systems Intelligence.
(Department of Informatics careers database)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computer-science-mcomp:
Computer Science MComp
Computer Science at Sussex provides a rigorous professional education in computing, preparing you for the constantly evolving industry that’s revolutionising our lives.
Our MComp covers the fundamental concepts of computing and their application.
It includes advanced study in specialisms including artificial intelligence, digital media, IT management, and mobile systems.
You’ll graduate with deep knowledge and skills in areas that are in high demand in industry.
We also offer this course as a five-year MComp with an industrial placement year , as a three-year BSc , or as a four-year BSc with an industrial placement year .
The Access to HE Diploma should be in Computing or Science.
Grade B in A-level, plus Distinction, Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma would normally be in Computing or Information Technology.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and over 92% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 3 or better.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result 14/20.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.5
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects
Grade B in A-level, plus Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computer-science-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Computer Science (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
Computer Science at Sussex gives you a comprehensive professional education in computing.
You can also apply for a year working in industry.
You’ll graduate with the knowledge and skills to take your computing career into a wide range of industries .
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , as a four-year MComp , or as a five-year MComp with an industrial placement year .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computer-science-with-an-industrial-placement-year-mcomp:
Computer Science (with an industrial placement year) MComp
Computer Science at Sussex provides a rigorous professional education in computing.
Our MComp covers the fundamental concepts of computing and their application, and includes advanced study in specialisms including artificial intelligence, digital media, IT management, and mobile systems.
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , as a three-year BSc , or as a four-year BSc with an industrial placement year .
You will  need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade B.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computer-science-and-artificial-intelligence-bsc:
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence BSc (Hons)
Computer programmes have a direct impact on almost every aspect of our lives.
As our digital world evolves, we need more computer scientists to research, design and develop the frameworks behind our everyday technologies.
Bringing together industry insights and cutting-edge facilities, you’ll develop your skills in a dynamic community.
You’ll learn from experts who are tackling real-world problems - connecting football fans with 4G, or collaborating with leading companies in artificial intelligence (AI).
You’ll also have access to our Future Technologies Labs.
This student-focused hub offers high-spec computers with state-of-the-art coding, development and modelling software, and dedicated project workspaces.
Our Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL) programme can help you settle into student life.
Sports clubs and societies also offer opportunities to take part in game jams, hackathons and interactive workshops.
By studying at Sussex, you’ll investigate:
You can even shape your degree to your interests by specialising in technology or cognitive science - the interdisciplinary study of intelligence and mind.
In the past, our graduates have progressed to fields including programming, games development, user experience (UX) architecture, business analysis and management consulting.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computer-science-and-artificial-intelligence-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computing-for-digital-media-and-games-bsc:
Computing for Digital Media and Games BSc (Hons)
The digital media and games industry is one of the fastest growing sectors in the UK.
At Sussex, we have a long history of being at the forefront of digital media development – from the origins of computer graphics, to today’s game-engine-based development and cloud-based video production.
On this degree, you’ll explore the established core technologies of computer science alongside specialised digital media and game development technology.
You’ll gain the fundamental computer science knowledge to be at the forefront of advances in:
During your studies, you’ll become familiar with industry-standard equipment and cloud-based production in our digital media production facility and video studios.
You’ll benefit from our industry links with companies such as Electric Square , Hangar 13 and Mavis Broadcast , with offices in Brighton.
This means you’ll not only gain fundamental skills, but also have the opportunity to experience real-world digital development and industry-initiated projects.
When you graduate, you’ll have a portfolio showing the range of your digital media skills and expertise to potential employers.
And, in Brighton you’ll find excellent career opportunities with the many local game and digital media companies.
Assistant Professor in Broadcast Technology
View profile of Richard Ellis
Scientific Officer - Senior Digital Media Technologist
View profile of Patrick Holroyd
View profile of Martin White
full stack internal apps developer
Unity software developer
computer science teacher
Our recent graduates are employed at companies including Unity Technologies, Electric Square, Tripadvisor, American Express, The Software Institute, Sitel Group, The Lego Group and Capita.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computing-for-digital-media-and-games-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Computing for Digital Media and Games (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
In addition, the optional year in industry is a great opportunity to gain real-world work experience.
<p>Recent graduates have gone on to jobs such as:</p> <ul> <li> <p>full stack internal apps developer</p> </li> <li> <p>Unity software developer</p> </li> <li> <p>computer science teacher</p> </li> <li> <p>programmer</p> </li> <li>software engineer.</li> </ul> <p>Our recent graduates are employed at companies including Unity Technologies, Electric Square, Tripadvisor, American Express, The Software Institute, Sitel Group, The Lego Group and Capita.</p> <p><em>(Department of Informatics careers database)</em></p>

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computing-sciences-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
Computing Sciences at Sussex gives you the skills needed to succeed in a constantly evolving industry that’s revolutionising our lives.
Our Foundation Year prepares you for continued study in computing subjects.
By learning about database and application development, object-oriented programming and programming design, you develop necessary mathematics and study skills, as well as basic programming skills.
After completing your Foundation Year, you can focus on Computer Science or combine it with subjects such as Business and Management, Digital Media or Artificial Intelligence.
Successful application for the foundation year will be evidence of academic ability in a demanding degree.
We would normally expect applicants to have studied in relevant subject areas.
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma would normally be in IT or Computing (although applicants in other subject areas can be considered).
Merit overall with a grade C in Core Component.
CDD
Grade C in A-level and Merit, Pass in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Pass overall with a grade C in Core Component.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/media-and-communications-ba:
Media and Communications BA (Hons)
In today’s digital world, media and communications shape our social lives, cultural interactions and even our identities.
Our Media and Communications BA allows you to explore how we find meaning in digital media cultures, infrastructures, and global connections.
With us, you’ll join a flexible programme built around your experiences and ambitions.
You’ll learn from experts in a progressive and inclusive environment.
You’ll also develop links to the UK’s vibrant media industries, as well as learn how to stand out in today's AI-influenced communications landscapes.
Throughout your studies, you will:
Diverse assessments will allow you to engage with a wide range of media sources, communication styles, and industry contexts - local, national, and international.
When you graduate, you’ll be a knowledgeable, adaptable, and creative communicator, ready to succeed in careers across advocacy, PR and the media and cultural industries.
You’ll be ready to navigate the risks and opportunities of a digital world with confidence and insight.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) in English at grade 5 (or grade B).
The Access to HE Diploma should be in the humanities or social sciences.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) English, with at least grade 5 (or grade B).
Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma would normally be in Creative Media Production.
You will also need GCSE (or equivalent) English, with at least grade 5 (or grade B).
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma would normally be in Creative Digital Media Production (or the former BTEC level 3 Extended Diploma (QCF) in Creative Media production).
You will need Scottish National 5 in English at grade B.
UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Creative Media Production and Technology with a grade of Merit.
You must have at least grade O3 in English.
This is the year in which you become a scholar.
Your core modules give you a solid grounding and prepare you to explore the topics that interest you most.
25%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 15%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
Year 2 is all about flexibility.
Focus on what interests you most when you choose from our exciting range of options.
This is the year in which you become an expert.
Year 3 is all about specialising in what interests you most.
Professor of Digital Humanities
View profile of David Berry
Assistant Professor in Digital Culture
View profile of Gemma Cobb
Associate Professor in Media and Cultural Studies
View profile of Katherine Farrimond
Associate Professor in Digital Humanities
View profile of Beatrice Fazi
View profile of Malcolm James
Professor of Cultural Studies
View profile of Margaretta Jolly
Associate Professor in Media and Cultural Studies (Digital Media)
View profile of Tanya Kant
Professor of Media History & Theory
View profile of Kate Lacey
Associate Professor In Media & Communication
View profile of Eleftheria Lekakis
Professor of Media & Communication
View profile of Sarah Maltby
Professor of Digital Memory, Heritage, and Culture
View profile of Victoria Richardson-Walden
Associate Professor In Digital Humanities
View profile of Ben Roberts
Professor of Media and Cultural Studies Studies
View profile of Pollyanna Ruiz
Assistant Professor in Media and Cultural Studies
View profile of Alban Webb
As a graduate, you’ll have real-world, transferable skills including:
Guest speakers give you first-hand information about what a career in the industry is like.
We also offer you dedicated support in Year 2 so you can secure work experience.
When you graduate, you’ll be well equipped for a range of careers, particularly in the rapidly developing creative industries market.
Our graduates have gone on to roles in:
(Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities database)
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Media
Merit overall with a grade B in Core Component.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/media-production-ba:
Media Production BA (Hons)
With us, you’ll make media to bring about change.
On this innovative and dynamic course, you’ll:
Based in Brighton – the UK’s hub for digital media – the course offers you training on the latest industry-standard creative technology and open-access tools for professional social-media-making.
You’ll get to develop, execute, promote and distribute an ambitious creative media project of your own design.
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared to begin your career in a complex world and a fast-evolving media landscape.
You’ll have the confidence and skills to take your first steps in the working world, and to continue on your way to a fulfilling and impactful career.
UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Creative Media Production and Technology with a grade of Merit.
Overall result of at least 75%.
25%: Lecture 20%: Seminar 50%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include creative, practical and written components.
Exploring different disciplines in two electives in Year 1 helps enrich your learning experience .
You’ll have 24/7 access to a suite of dedicated spaces to support your leaning:
A broad array of professional equipment is available to ensure you gain practical experience with tools prevalent in the film industry:
This equipment supports both on-campus projects and external working.
Find out more about our Facilities for Media Production and Filmmaking
Associate Professor in Media Practice
View profile of Cecile Chevalier
View profile of Emile Devereaux
Assistant Professor in Digital Media
View profile of Andrew Duff
Associate Professor in Digital Media Practice
View profile of Irene Fubara-Manuel
Assistant Professor in Digital Practice
View profile of Em Harrison
View profile of Paul Mcconnell
View profile of Micheal O'Connell
Professor in Podcasting and Creative Media
View profile of Martin Spinelli
View profile of Lizzie Thynne
View profile of Paul Vincent
Assistant Professor in Media Practice (Sound)
View profile of Zoha Zokaei
At Sussex, you’re given the chance to develop further real-world skills outside the classroom.
You can write for our student newspaper, or present a feature on our television channel or radio station.
You’ll learn how to use industry-standard software and equipment, and develop skills in video editing, photographic manipulation, digital design, animation, script writing and sound.
Masterclasses by alumni and industry professionals prepare you for life after graduation.
You’ll present your projects at degree exhibitions to help you build up a portfolio to show potential employers.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in media production

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/criminology-ba:
Criminology BA (Hons)
Studying Criminology at Sussex, you’ll apply key approaches to critical contemporary issues.
The course has a sociological grounding.
Yo u’ll gain theoretical knowledge and learn to understand crime in the context of its culture, as well as the criminal justice system.
From philosophy to modern languages, you take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
On graduation, you’ll have the skills needed for a variety of careers.
You’re taught by experts who influence theoretical debates and inform policy and practice.
They specialise on topics ranging from policing, terrorism, and victims of crime to capital punishment, and crimes against humanity – meaning that you'll focus on the real-world impact of criminology.
M2 M2 M3
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade B at A-level and, M2 and M3 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades BB at A-level and M3 in Pre-U.
ABBBB - BBBBB
BBB - BBC from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs A*-C (or 9-4), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Assistant Professor in Criminology
View profile of David Davies
Associate Professor in Criminology
View profile of Luca Follis
Associate Professor in Sociology and Criminology
View profile of James Hardie-Bick
View profile of Suraj Lakhani
View profile of Estelle Marks
Associate Professor In Sociology And Criminology
View profile of Hannah Mason-Bish
Assistant Professor in Criminology and Sociology
View profile of Paul McGuinness
View profile of Alexa Neale
View profile of Vladimir Rizov
View profile of Dara Ruane
View profile of Simone Santorso
Professor
View profile of Lizzie Seal
View profile of Nicholas Sinclair-House
Professor of Criminology
View profile of Dean Wilson
With a Criminology degree, you get the perfect training and knowledge for graduate careers in policing, the prison service or youth justice.
You’ll gain skills in communication, critical thinking and data analysis and be prepared to go into research and policy-related roles in a range of fields.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Criminology
Find out more about the Department of Sociology and Criminology

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/criminology-and-sociology-ba:
Criminology and Sociology BA (Hons)
Make the most of our interdisciplinary teaching by combining Criminology and Sociology.
By sharing methods, theories and interests, you’ll diversify your understanding of crime as a social construction, as well as its relationships with class, gender, race and law.
In the process, you develop your own critical and creative approaches.
This course is for you if you’re committed to expanding your criminological imagination and interested in sociological perspectives.
Associate Professor in Sociology
View profile of Jamie Barnes
View profile of Josh Bowsher
Assistant Professor in Sociology
View profile of Jenny Chanfreau
Reader in Sociology
View profile of Aneira Edmunds
View profile of Ben Fincham
View profile of Oliver Hall
View profile of Yari Lanci
View profile of Aleksandra Lewicki
View profile of Gillian Love
Professor in Sociology (Ageing and Health)
View profile of Karen Lowton
View profile of Liz McDonnell
View profile of Ulla McKnight
View profile of Laura Morosanu
View profile of Carli Rowell
Professor of Sociology
View profile of Susie Scott
View profile of Daniel Whillis
With a Criminology and Sociology BA, you get the perfect training and knowledge for graduate careers in policing, welfare, social services, the prison service or youth justice.
You’ll gain skills in communication, critical thinking and data analysis.
This means you can go into research and policy-related roles both in the UK and abroad.
To help you apply for graduate schemes and jobs in the public, private and voluntary sectors, you can attend specialist career workshops and sessions at Sussex throughout your degree.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/criminology-with-psychology-ba:
Criminology with Psychology BA (Hons)
Crime, its manifestations, causes and consequences are a concern worldwide.
There’s a global need for real-world understanding of crime, criminals and punishment.
On this course, you’ll explore crime and deviance from an interdisciplinary perspective, combining criminological and psychological perspectives.
You’ll study:
In your final-year project, you’ll learn to formulate criminological and/or psychological questions, plan how to answer them and conduct your own research.
Our research underpins our teaching.
You’ll learn from faculty actively involved in research into areas including:
As a graduate, you’ll have critical thinking, research methods (for example, interviews and document analysis) and quantitative methods (for example, large survey design) skills for a wide range of careers.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor Global and Civic Eng
View profile of Robin Banerjee
View profile of Jenny Bosten
Professor of Health Psychology
View profile of Richard De Visser
Professor of Social Psychology
View profile of John Drury
Reader in Mental Health Science
View profile of Darya Gaysina
View profile of Graham Hole
Assistant Professor in Social Psychology
View profile of Megan Hurst
View profile of Sarah King
Professor in Behavioural Neuroscience
View profile of Eisuke Koya
View profile of Kathryn Lester
View profile of Adhip Rawal
Professor of Developmental Psychology
View profile of Nicola Yuill
As a graduate, you’ll have skills in quantitative and qualitative social research methods so you can:
You’ll also have skills in communication, critical thinking and data analysis, which are directly transferable to a range of careers including:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-with-criminology-llb:
Law with Criminology LLB (Hons)
This course allows you to study law, including criminal law, while also developing your knowledge and expertise in the complementary subject of criminology.
You’ll study crime in society, encompassing both explanations for and responses to criminal behaviour.
Through the Sussex Law Clinics , you can gain valuable work experience of the law in action before you graduate.
“ I was always set on studying at Sussex, not only because of its reputation but also because of the status of the Law School .”

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology-with-criminology-bsc:
Psychology with Criminology BSc (Hons)
Study in one of the UK’s largest schools of psychology, where you will learn from passionate academics who are world-leaders in the areas that they teach.
You can tailor your course by choosing from an extensive range of modules and be confident that you’ll be supported by expert staff throughout your degree.
You will combine this with learning from criminology experts.
Our faculty influence UK public-sector policy on topics from radicalisation to international crime.
Whatever your area of interest within the field of psychology – clinical, child development, cognitive, forensic, health, social and applied psychology or neuroscience – we have the expertise to support you.
You’ll develop skills in critical thinking, research and data analysis for careers in professional psychology, or research.
You can use the skills you’ve learned in criminology for jobs in policing, the prison service and youth justice.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-international-development-ba:
This course starts in September 2025
Economics and International Development BA (Hons)
Learn how to use economic tools to tackle global issues.
You’re taught both economics and international development by leading experts whose research influences ground-breaking debate and global economic policy.
You'll gain an understanding of the theories and history of development and aid and explore development within the international economy.
You'll learn how economics is used to analyse real-world issues and explore topics such as the principles of economics at macro and micro level, the development process, policy initiatives, and issues and dilemmas in development.
There is a focus on colonialism in understanding modern development policy, and key development thinkers.
You’ll study areas such as trade, global imbalances, the financial crisis and financial markets.
You'll also get key quantitative skills by studying mathematics and statistics, as well as statistical techniques and research methods from studying econometrics .
Choose from a range of economics and international development options, including international trade or development economics.
They help you explore development issues and the real-world concerns faced by development professionals.
You can also b roaden your experience further with an option to study abroad or apply for a professional placement year.
Sign up for our Clearing updates and be the first to know when we publish our entry requirements ahead of results day.
Stay informed, plan ahead, and be fully prepared.
Get Clearing updates
We do not accept TOEFL (iBT) Home Edition.
We’re planning to run these
					modules in the academic year 2025/26.
However, there may be changes to these modules in response to feedback, staff availability, student demand or updates to
					our curriculum.
The structure
					of a small number of courses means that the order of modules or the streams you choose may determine whether modules are core or optional.
This means that your core modules or
					options may differ from what’s shown here.
Recent students from the Department of Economics and Department of International Development have gone on placements at:
Associate Dean for Education and Students
View profile of Farai Jena
View profile of Annemie Maertens
Professor of Development Economics
View profile of Andy McKay
View profile of Selma Walther
Find details on our Tuition fees page .
Please note that all costs are best estimates based on current market values.
Activities may be subject to unavoidable change in response to Government advice.
We’ll let you know at the earliest opportunity.
We review estimates every year and they may vary with inflation.
Find out how to budget for student life .
This course has an optional study visit abroad for Year 3 students.
The approximate contribution towards costs is £200 per student.
If the study visit is undersubscribed, we may also offer the study visit to postgraduate students.
Our goal is to ensure that every student who wants
to study with us is able to regardless of financial
barriers, so that we continue to attract talented
and unique people.
£5,000
£5,000 in the first year of full-time study
£3,000 cash per year of full time study.
Scholarships recipients will be supported to develop a high level project plan and provided with mentoring support.
Recipients of the scholarship can receive between £500-£1,250 per year as well as a range of other benefits.
Up to £4,500
£1,000 in your first year of study (either Year 1 or Foundation Year).
£500 in subsequent years.
£6,000 over 3 or 4 years of study
You'll develop communication, analytical, cultural awareness and numeracy skills.
These skills mean you could go into graduate jobs at multinational companies, non-governmental organisations and in the public sector.
You'll also benefit from extensive career support including mentoring by employers and alumni, networking, guest lectures, events and workshops.
You can meet and hear from graduate employers and former Sussex students, find out more about graduate schemes and get help with preparing for selection tests and assessment centres.
There are several societies you can join, including one run by Economics students, which brings together students from Economics courses as well as those from other courses who share an interest in economics.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-and-international-development-ba:
Geography and International Development BA (Hons)
Global issues such as poverty, inequality, migration, and environmental sustainability are deeply interconnected.
Solutions need to address both the physical environment and human development.
This course will empower you to tackle these problems in a way that is sustainable, equitable, and informed by both local and global contexts.
As a student, you’ll join the Department of Geography in our School of Global Studies, home to leading academics who are shaping policy.
You’ll be able to further enhance your skills by choosing our optional work experience module available in year 3.
You’ll graduate with a specialised skill set that is valuable across various careers.
You might choose to explore fields like environmental research, urban planning, international development or global health.
In Year 2, you can pick from an exciting range of locations: recent destinations include China, Los Angeles, Greece and Corsica.
There is also an equally exciting UK-based field trip.
Professor of Geography and International Development
View profile of Grace Carswell
Associate Professor in Human Geography
View profile of Fae Dussart
View profile of Daniel Haberly
Professor Of Human Geography
View profile of JoAnn McGregor
Assistant Professor in Human Geography
View profile of Lucila Newell
On our Geography and International Development BA, you develop cultural awareness as well as research, numerical, analytical and resource-management skills.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-development-with-a-language-ba:
International Development with a Language BA (Hons)
The world is shaped by global challenges such as climate change, new conflicts, changing migration patterns and deepening inequalities.
At Sussex, you’ll explore these issues.
You’ll look at the institutional legacies and structures of power that shape them, and you’ll examine what’s being done to address them.
You’ll learn from specialists in areas such as climate justice, markets and finance, gender and sexuality, social justice and rights, health and new technologies.
Building on our expertise, you’ll develop the critical knowledge and practical tools to be part of the change you want to see in the world.
On your course, you’ll take an interdisciplinary view.
You’ll learn about global challenges from different perspectives including Anthropology, Geography, International Relations, Education and Economics.
Throughout your studies, you’ll:
You’ll combine International Development with a language, choosing from Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese and Spanish.
Or you can choose to study English Language Teaching.
You’ll become a part of a vibrant and welcoming community of staff and students passionate about achieving greater social and environmental justice.
When you graduate, you’ll have the knowledge, skills and critical hope you need to participate in creating just and equitable change.
Your language skills will give you valuable intercultural communication and awareness skills.
You’ll have the confidence to start a rewarding global career in development policy, practice or advocacy.
You gain transferable skills in problem-solving and independent learning.
Employers will value your extra language abilities, improved communication and cultural understanding.
You can use your degree in International Development with a Language for careers in:
We support and stay in touch with our graduates – you can attend specialist careers events and receive careers advice from Sussex, for up to three years after you have completed your studies.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-relations-and-development-ba:
International Relations and Development BA (Hons)
You’ll join one of the largest dedicated International Relations departments in the world, and an academic community that enjoys a world reputation for being a leading centre for Development Studies in the world.
You’ll learn from experts driving debates and influencing policy – on topics such as peace-building, migration, human rights, humanitarian emergencies, global health, food security, poverty, financial instability and climate change.
Outside the classroom, you gain insights into global issues through field trips and international placements.
You’ll even have the opportunity to shape our research agenda by participating in our International Development and International Relations societies.
Your International Relations and Development degree develops your communication, analytical and cultural awareness skills.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology-and-international-development-ba:
Sociology and International Development BA (Hons)
If you want to understand the challenges of reducing poverty and inequality in societies across the world, this course is for you.
Our faculty influence debates on topics such as gender inequalities, health care, human rights and the environment.
Outside the classroom, you'll gain hands-on experience through:
ABB-BBB
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 21-24 credits at Distinction
AABBB-ABBBB
Overall result of at least 75% to 77%.
You’ll learn to work in a flexible and well-organised way.
You’ll also develop skills in research, analysis and debate.
These skills – a mix of the practical and theoretical – along with the ability to solve problems and communicate clearly are sought after by employers.
Our graduates are prepared to go on to work in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/filmmaking-ba:
Filmmaking BA (Hons)
“ I’m a filmmaker of both drama and documentary, and bring this experience into the classroom.
I give examples of how I approach a subject conceptually and how to produce a film practically .”
At Sussex, we have a history of informing and developing social change.
With us, you’ll develop from a passionate storyteller to an industry‐ready professional communicating with global, diverse audiences.
You’ll gain the conceptual and technical tools to make films and screen content representing diverse voices.
Our project‐based, interdisciplinary approach ensures that you don’t just learn theory but apply it in real-world contexts.
You’ll gain practical experience, as well as skills in project work, being part of a team and communication.
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared to succeed in areas such as development, production and post-production, filming and distribution.
See a showcase of our students’ final-year projects
Year 1 introduces you to key filmmaking practices.
This includes screenwriting, visual storytelling, factual production and global cinema.
You’ll begin to develop your creative voice, while gaining technical proficiency and critical awareness.
Teaching methods typically include workshops, seminars, practicals and tutorials.
20%: Lecture 20%: Seminar 50%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include media and film projects, written coursework and oral presentations.
This breaks down into about 300 hours of contact time and about 900 hours of independent study.
Exploring different disciplines in two electives – one in Year 1 and one in Year 2 – helps enrich your learning experience .
In Year 2, you’ll deepen your understanding of industry workflows, project development and production management.
You’ll explore specialist areas such as sound design, animation and screen performance.
You’ll also engage with real-world briefs and begin to build your professional portfolio.
Teaching methods typically include studio-based learning, seminars, technical demonstrations and collaborative group work.
Assessment methods typically include portfolios, films and other media artefacts, reflective writing and pitches.
The final year focuses on independent, practice-led research and major creative projects.
You’ll refine your professional identity and prepare for a career in the creative industries.
Teaching methods typically include project supervision, masterclasses, seminars and peer critique.
Assessment methods typically include film projects, video essays, critical reflections and professional portfolios.
Our Filmmaking teaching team includes experienced practitioners and scholars whose work spans fiction, documentary, digital media and experimental forms.
We combine academic research and industry practice.
Many of us actively produce films, write screenplays and exhibit internationally.
Our collaborative and interdisciplinary approach fosters creative exploration and critical engagement with global film cultures.
Associate Professor In Filmmaking
View profile of Christopher Brown
Professor of Filmmaking
View profile of Joanna Callaghan
Professor of Creative Practice and Visual Cultures
View profile of Piotr Cieplak
Lecturer in Filmmaking
View profile of Catherine Donaldson
Assistant Professor in Filmmaking
View profile of Vincent Du
View profile of Adrian Goycoolea
Assistant Professorr in Video Production
View profile of Yorgos Karagiannakis
Assistant Professor in Filmmaking and Script Writing
View profile of Jeremy Sheldon
Masterclasses from alumni and industry professionals also prepare you for life after graduation.
You’ll learn how to use industry-standard software and equipment, and develop skills in video editing, photographic manipulation, digital design, animation and sound.
You also build up a portfolio of work to show potential employers.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in filmmaking

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/music-technology-ba:
Music Technology BA (Hons)
Go beyond the realms of standard music production.
Studying with us, you’ll learn to record on multitrack analogue tape, build your own interactive music systems, and perform with new digital and classic analogue instruments.
This transformational journey isn’t just about skills, but the ability to create music that resonates, disrupts and shapes the future.
Guided by our experts, you’ll :
experiment with new ideas and understand music’s place in the world
work to authentic industry briefs and build your network
learn to navigate an ever-changing industry
design your own projects and develop your own creative approach
gain specialist creative, technical and analytical skills valued by employers in the music technology, film and TV, games, live events and wider creative industries
take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
You’ll benefit from our connections with local music organisations.
These include Glyndebourne , the opera venue in the Sussex Downs near Lewes, and The Rose Hill , an independent music venue and creative hub in Brighton.
On campus, you’ll work in specialist facilities (usually available 24/7) including:
recording studios
project studios and practice rooms
multifunction performance space and maker space
the 350-seat auditorium and gigs stage at the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts .
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared for a diverse range of careers.
This could include working as a touring and recording artist, performer, sample library producer, beatmaker, games music composer, event promotor, live sound engineer, teacher or music technology designer/maker.
You must have evidence of strong music ability.
You might have A-level Music or Music Technology (with at least grade B in either) or have other evidence of music ability from outside your A-level studies.
This could be a formal qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM) or you may have other evidence of strong performance, composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
If you are applying without a formal music qualification, but otherwise have a strong UCAS application, we will probably ask you to submit evidence of your music ability as part of our selection process.
You might, for example, be asked to provide a portfolio of compositions or songs/tracks or recordings of public performances, or a combination of several of these.
The Access should be in Humanities or Social Sciences or computing/music technology creative and digital media.
You must also have evidence of strong music ability.
You might have A-level Music or Music Technology or have other evidence of music ability from another qualification.
This could be a formal qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM) or you may have other evidence of strong performance, composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
You might have A-level Music or Music Technology (with at least grade B) or a Cambridge Pre-U in Music or have other evidence of music ability from outside your current studies.
You might have Higher level Music within your International Baccalaureate (with at least grade 5) or have other evidence of music ability from outside your International Baccalaureate studies.
This could be a formal qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM) or you may have other evidence of strong performance or composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
You might have either an A-level in Music or Music Technology or Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
You may have other evidence of music ability from outside your current studies such as formal qualifications (grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM) or you may have other evidence of strong performance, composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
You might have either an A-level in Music or Music Technology usually at grade B or Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
You might have a Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma (formerly BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma) in Music or Music Technology or you could have a formal qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM).
You may also have other evidence of strong performance or composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
You might have Highers which include Music with at least grade B or an Advanced Higher in Music (grade B) or have other evidence of music ability from outside your current studies.
This could be a formal qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM).
You may also have other evidence of strong performance, composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma should be in Music Performance and Production with a grade of Merit.
You should also have a broad range of GCSEs 9-4 (A*-C)
You might have A-level Music or Music Technology or have other evidence of music ability from outside your A-level studies.
You might have this from your formal studies within your school leaving qualification (with a strong grade in Music with a score of 8) or have other evidence of music ability from outside your academic studies.
This could be a qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM) or you may have other evidence of strong performance or composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
You might have this from your formal studies within your school leaving qualification (with a strong grade in Music) or have other evidence of music ability from outside your academic studies.
This could be a qualification (such as grade 7 theory or grade 7 instrument or voice from a certified exam board, like Rockschool or ABRSM) or you may have other evidence of strong performance, composition or professional experience from outside your academic studies.
Year 1 introduces you to musicianship skills and concepts including studio recording, music production, electronic music, writing and composition, creative music technology systems and global music cultures.
You’ll begin to develop your creative voice while gaining technical proficiency and critical awareness.
20%: Lecture 25%: Seminar 45%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
As part of this degree, you explore subjects that are different to your course through electives and pathways that complement your main subject.
Exploring different disciplines in two electives – one in Year 1 and one in Year 2 – helps enrich your learning experience .
In Year 2, you’ll deepen your skills, explore new areas, work collaboratively and understand professional development.
Our exciting range of options allows to you start crafting your expertise .
In Year 3, you’ll refine your own voice and develop a professional portfolio, preparing you for careers in the creative industries.
You’ll shape your own projects, focusing on your area of specialism.
This could include studio-based projects, recording, electronic music, composition, film music, performance, sound design, instrument design or research.
Lecturer in Music and Music Technology
View profile of Dylan Beattie
Associate Professor in Music and Music Technology
View profile of Danny Bright
Professor of Sonic Systems
View profile of Alice Eldridge
Professor of Interdisciplinary Composition
View profile of Evelyn Ficarra
Associate Professor in Music
View profile of Mimi Haddon
Principal Research Fellow
View profile of Tim Hopkins
Professor of Composition in Music
View profile of Ed Hughes
Reader in Musical Instrument Design
View profile of Chris Kiefer
Professor of Future Music
View profile of Thor Magnusson
Lecturer in Music
View profile of Joseph Watson
Assistant Professor in Music
View profile of Lee Westwood
At Sussex, you learn how to use industry-standard software and develop real-world skills in:
You can also join a band or musical society and produce a portfolio of creative work to show to potential employers.
This means you’re prepared for jobs in the music industry, music and sound design for film and theatre, and the multimedia and gaming industries.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama-and-english-ba:
Drama and English BA (Hons)
Artistic imagination, professional versatility and creative confidence are vital in today’s cultural industries.
At Sussex, you’ll develop these skills and get ready for your career.
Our graduates have gone on to work with organisations such as The Young Vic, Munich Kammerspiele, BBC3, ITV2 and the National Theatre.
Joining a warm and inclusive creative community, you’ll experience the world of professional practice through our close ties to Brighton’s vibrant arts scene.
You’ll broaden your horizon as an artist and thinker by combining a strong humanities education with hands-on, collaborative artistic production.
In Drama, you’ll gain skills across diverse theatre practices including:
Through our partnerships with artists and organisations, you’ll discover ways into the broader commercial and applied field of theatre.
In English, you’ll explore texts from diverse cultures, genres and periods.
You’ll connect your own writing to era-defining challenges such as AI, climate change and global conflicts.
Opportunities for placements with local cultural organisations will help you grow as a resourceful and versatile communicator able to write with skill for a wide range of audiences.
This industry-facing degree is taught in a range of arts facilities, including the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts (ACCA) .
At ACCA, you’ll encounter a world-class public programme of theatre, dance, music, literature and film.
With us, you’ll develop the collaborative skills, confidence and network to create a future in the arts and follow your curiosity wherever it may lead.
M2,M2,M2 in the Pre-U
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, we would expect you to have a grade B in the A-level and M2 and M2 in the two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades BB in the two A-levels and M2 in the Pre-U.
You should also have a range of GCSEs at grade 9 to 4 (A* to C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Normally in Performing Arts
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 88% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER,  or a Queensland OP of 4 or better.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result of at least 13/20.
Diploma de Ensino Secundario normally with an overall mark 17/20.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade above 1.8 from 4 subjects
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of 8.0.
After an offer has been made we would invite you to attend one of our practical Drama workshops, which happen on Applicant Visit Days.
The workshops are facilitated by Drama course lecturers and current students, so you will get to experience first-hand what it’s like to study at Sussex.
Teaching methods typically include practical workshops seminars and lectures, alongside regular theatre visits and discussions with artists and cultural leaders .
20%: Lecture 40%: Seminar 30%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include practical performance, presentations and written coursework .
Professor of Critical & Creative Practice
View profile of Sara Jane Bailes
Associate Professor in Drama, Theatre & Performance
View profile of Augusto Corrieri
Associate Professor Performance
View profile of Benjamin Fowler
Associate Professor in English
View profile of William McEvoy
Associate Professor in Theatre and Perfomance
View profile of Lisa Peck
Reader in Theatre and Performance Studies
View profile of Jason Price
Associate Professor in Drama: Theatre and Performance
View profile of Arabella Stanger
Studying Drama and English means being exposed to a range of perspectives from multidisciplinary and flexible subjects.
We’ve previously offered career-building experience through schemes that bring the power of reading and creative writing to the public such as Sussex Writes .
You’ll develop practical careers skills including critical assessment, effective communication, independent thinking and problem-solving.
These skills are transferable, and you can use your degree to go on to further study or to pursue a career in::
Recent graduates have found jobs as:
(Drama, Theatre and Peformance careers database)
Grades BC in A-levels plus Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama-and-film-studies-ba:
Drama and Film Studies BA (Hons)
“Wherever I go next, I know that what I’ve done at Sussex will act as a stepping stone to finding and taking up space in the industry.”
You’ll broaden your horizon by combining a strong humanities education with hands-on, collaborative artistic production.
staging plays, collaborative devising, acting and writing for performance
experimental forms including live art and site-specific theatre
choreography, sound and visual design.
In Film Studies, you’ll:
explore how cinema influences society, identity, art and politics across cultures and time
analyse the global impact of cinema and today’s audiovisual media.
Through our partnerships with theatre artists and organisations, you’ll discover the broader commercial and applied field of theatre.
Our strong ties with local cinemas and Brighton’s international film festival give you direct insight into programming, promotion and the film industry in action.
You’ll also have the opportunity to attend masterclasses from industry professionals,
When you graduate, you’ll have the collaborative skills, confidence and network to create a future in the arts and follow your curiosity wherever it may lead.
From the beginning of your degree you’ll combine creative and critical practice in Drama.
You’ll collaborate in the studio and gain foundational skills by staging plays and experimenting with new forms.
In Film Studies, you’ll explore the fundamental processes of formal and critical analysis, as well as the histories of cinema development in Europe and around the world.
Teaching methods typically include practical workshops and seminars, alongside regular film screenings, theatre visits and discussions with artists and cultural leaders .
10%: Lecture 45%: Seminar 35%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
In Year 2, you’ll encounter new genres of contemporary practice and pursue specialist skills in Drama.
In Film Studies, you’ll encounter cinemas you may be less familiar with, while also getting to study your favourite film genres.
You’ll begin to apply your learned skills and start thinking about future progression and careers, working with industry partners .
Year 3 is dedicated to specialisation, leadership and the culmination of your interests as an artist, thinker and professional in theatre and film.
In Drama, you’ll develop a significant artistic or critical project.
In Film, you’ll specialise in what interests you most – from the Hollywood industry to pop music soundtracks.
Your final year also emphasises professional ambitions, building networks and establishing your artistic identity.
Our graduates are intellectually agile, critically rigorous, highly skilled communicators with a flair for independent thought and a creative approach to problem-solving.
You can attend tailored careers events, including workshops, talks and drop-in sessions, throughout your time at Sussex.
You continue to receive careers support after graduation.
After graduation, you can go on to postgraduate-level study, or use your Drama Studies and Film Studies degree for a career in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama-with-a-language-ba:
Drama with a Language BA (Hons)
“Sussex has taken me on a journey that includes teaching Drama in Budapest, and working as a film researcher.”
You’ll gain skills across diverse theatre practices including:
In addition, you’ll get to choose one language from Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese and Spanish, or you can choose to study English Language Teaching.
This industry-facing degree is taught in a range of arts facilities, including the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts .
Through our partnerships with artists and organisations, you’ll have opportunities to:
With us, you’ll discover what you want to do as a creative.
In collaboration and individually, we’ll support you to stage your work and develop a unique voice in the broader commercial and applied field of theatre.
You’ll develop the collaborative skills, confidence and network to create a future in the arts and follow your curiosity wherever it may lead.
From the beginning of your degree you’ll combine creative and critical practice.
You’ll explore theatre as a dynamic source of social and political ideas, and develop insights into theatre in the world of work .
You’ll also take one language module in each semester.
Teaching methods typically include practical performance, presentations and written coursework, such as critical and creative response, essays, reports and professional-facing tasks .
50%: Seminar 40%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
In Year 2, you’ll encounter new genres of contemporary practice and pursue specialist skills.
This might include performing, or writing for performance.
You’ll also continue to develop your language skills in each semester.
Year 3 is all about specialisation, leadership, and your interests as an artist, thinker and theatre professional.
You’ll develop a significant artistic or critical project.
And you’ll gain professional experience in live workplace environments.
You’ll also continue to develop your language skills in each semester.
Studying Drama with a Language will enhance your communication and language skills – highly valued by employers.
You’ll develop practical careers skills in critical assessment, independent thinking and problem-solving.
Our graduates have set up their own theatre companies and established themselves as professional directors and performers.
You can also go on to further study, or pursue a career in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama-theatre-and-performance-ba:
Drama, Theatre and Performance BA (Hons)
“ My Drama degree at Sussex was the best springboard for my work as a young artist and performer .”
You’ll take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests .
[Music starts – ambient textures with minimal piano building into an electro-pop groove]
Corinne Furman speaking: I started off as a dancer, from when I was really, really little.
And, acting was the thing that I really fell in love with.
[Sequence of black and white still photos of Corinne alone on stage in striking poses, cutting to video shots of her walking into the beam of a spotlight on a stage from off-screen]
You really get to use your life experiences and those emotions that you felt, to tell important stories.
Anytime you felt anger or upset, you get to get that out of you
[Close up video shot of Corinne conveying emotional turmoil on her face, cutting to shot from behind her capturing her and the camera operator filming]
And, I think that's why acting is so special.
Coming back here today, walking back into the ACCA, I've just felt so calm, and it makes me feel safe, and it makes me feel happy.
And, I had so many great memories here.
[Shot of fish pond outside ACCA with the building visible in the reflection, cutting to shot of Corinne walking through the main foyer at ACCA]
What better opportunity to… really get to know yourself, where you can be learning, and you can do your degree in a theatre, in a full-size auditorium.
You can do your workshops on the stage, and you're getting to really practise how to use your voice, and how to project, and how to perform, and how to reach the back of the room.
[Shots of Corinne entering the ACCA auditorium, cutting to shots of students rehearsing a course performance and ending with shots from multiple perspectives showing Corinne walk from behind the curtains off stage to the fully lit centre of the stage where she comes to a halt]
[Music: minimal electronic building gradually to a drop to finish as an energetic dance track]
[Slowly moving drone shot capturing an a busy library square during the daytime]
But also the tutors.
They really did care about us as individuals, and they wanted the best for us, and they really pushed us...
to be the best versions of ourselves.
[Montage of various shots and stills of Corine having a photoshoot in various downstairs areas of ACCA]
During my time here at Sussex, I was part of Sussex Dance Society.
I have such fond memories of being here, and getting ready before shows or competitions, and being in the rehearsal space and being backstage in the wings and having that excitement, and that nervousness to get out on stage.
[Various shots of Corinne performing an energetic street dance routine on the stage at ACCA in vibrant and colourful stage lighting]
And, you do your performance and...you have this adrenaline, and this feeling!
It's just such a nice release.
[Shots of Corinne finishing her routine and easing to a relaxed walk off stage]
[Music: emotive minimal piano with brooding string motives]
I had the opportunity to go into a place called 'First Base Day Centre’, which is a homeless shelter for people in Brighton.
Just seeing other people who had maybe never acted in their lives, experience the same thing that I do…I feel like without that experience, and learning about other people's life experience, I wouldn't be as a matured actor as I am now.
[A further montage of shots and stills of the photoshoot seen earlier in ACCA]
The most recent job that I did, I had a main part in a drama on TV, which is to be released soon.
And, this was the job where I could really show off what I can do, and have a really raw, deep storyline.
[Smooth drone shot starting a close top-down perspective of the roof of the Meeting House and orbiting away whilst a seagull flies into land]
I don't think that I would be where I am today, without those experiences that Sussex gave me.
[Shots of Corinne performing a slow sequence of ballet moves, ending on a graceful bow as the auditorium fades into complete darkness]
[END CARD: Still of the University of Sussex logo against a blue-purple solid colour background]
Ronni: My favourite thing about my course is the facilities we get to work in.
So working in the Attenborough Centre, for example, is amazing.
And I really enjoy the topics we get to learn about...
as they’re really wide [umm], and cover a lot of different aspects of theatre.
And then linking into that, I really enjoy our lecturers as they all sort of bring something to the course [umm] from what they were doing before, or what they’re currently studying.
So...
yeah, I find it really interesting learning from them.
You’ll explore theatre as a dynamic source of social and political ideas, and develop insights into theatre in the world of work.
Teaching methods typically include practical workshops and seminars, alongside regular theatre visits and discussions with artists and cultural leaders .
40%: Seminar 50%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
You’ll encounter new genres of contemporary practice and pursue specialist skills.
Our diverse range of options allows you to pursue your personal interests.
The focus is on your professional ambitions, building networks and establishing your artistic identity.
Among our recent graduates are theatre directors, performers/actors, arts and cultural managers, festival producers, and consultants in theatre and other creative sectors.
Some have set up their own theatre companies or engaged in specialised theatre training.
And others have started careers in related fields such as publishing, librarianship, education, law, counselling and drama therapy.
Through regular workshops with artists and industry professionals, you hear from those working in theatre and performance in the UK and internationally.
Recent workshops have been conducted by acclaimed artists including:
We also organise careers events, often inviting recent graduates to talk about their work.
When you graduate, you can also go on to further study, or pursue a career in:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Drama and Theatre

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-ba:
Economics BA (Hons)
You focus on the practice of economics and policy analysis to understand growth and equality issues.
By studying the principles of economics at microeconomic and macroeconomic levels, you learn how to analyse real-world issues and events.
You study behavioural economics and econometrics, building your understanding of applied statistical techniques and their application to economic questions.
Then you build your expertise by choosing from a range of specialist options including data coding and visualisation, climate change economics, education economics, financial economics and development economics.
You will gain important quantitative skills for policy analysis.
From psychology to law and modern languages, you take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
You can also b roaden your experience further with an option to apply for studying abroad or a professional placement year.
Our flexible degree means you can tailor it to your career path, whether you want to work in banking and finance, private companies, the Civil Service or international organisations.
You study a quantitative approach to economics including advanced statistics and applied econometrics.
You also gain advanced mathematical economics skills.
You focus on the practice of economics and policy-making.
There’s a lighter emphasis on mathematics and statistics than on the BSc.
Exploring different disciplines in three electives – two in Year 1 and one in Year 2 – helps enrich your learning experience .
View profile of Ingo Borchert
Professor Of Economics
View profile of Gabriella Cagliesi
Visiting Professor
Associate Professor in The Economics of Environment, Energy & Climate Change
View profile of George Mackerron
You'll develop communication, analytical and numeracy skills.
These skills mean you could go into graduate jobs in the Civil Service, banks, consultancies, insurance and accounting firms.
You are based in the University of Sussex Business School where you'll benefit from extensive career support and business connections, including mentoring, networking, guest lectures and the development of your workplace skills.
Y ou'll meet and hear from graduate employers and former Sussex students, find out more about graduate schemes and get help with preparing for selection tests and assessment centres.
Economics students also run an active society that invites guest speakers and organises events, bringing together students from Economics courses as well as those from other courses who share an interest in economics.
The Business School is also home to the renowned UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO), one of the most trusted voices in the analysis of the UK’s trading future.
Facilities include the Bloomberg Lab where you can access real-time data from the Bloomberg Professional service platform.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-bsc:
Economics BSc (Hons)
Gain the confidence to communicate economic ideas and concepts to a wide audience.
On this BSc, you study a quantitative and empirical approach to economics including econometrics and mathematical economics.
You’ll develop your data coding and visualisation skills, using a wide array of statistical tools and industry-standard software.
You’ll analyse current real-world issues and focus on specialist areas such as climate change economics, labour economics and international trade – gaining the practical skills for a career at world-leading organisations.
You’ll study important issues such as global imbalances and the financial crisis, building your understanding of applied statistical techniques and their application to economic questions.
From international business to law and modern languages, you take electives from other subjects to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
Our flexible degree means you can shape your study to fit your desired career path, whether you want to work in banking and finance, for private companies, the Civil Service or international organisations, or progress to Masters level.
You can also boost your employability with an option to apply for studying abroad or a professional placement year.
You also gain advanced mathematical economics skills.
There's a lighter emphasis on mathematics and statistics than on the BSc.
As part of this degree, you explore a subject different to your course through an elective that complements your main subject.
Exploring a different discipline in one elective in Year 1 helps enrich your learning experience .
With an Economics BSc, you’ll develop communication, analytical, software and numeracy skills.
These skills mean you could go into graduate jobs in the Civil Service, banks, consultancies, insurance and accounting firms.
The Business School is home to the renowned UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO), one of the most trusted voices in the analysis of the UK’s trading future after Brexit.
Facilities on campus also include the Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab where you can access real-time data from the Bloomberg Professional services platform.
There is also an active Economics society at Sussex that provides further networking opportunities.
The Society invites guest speakers and organises events, bringing together students from Economics courses as well as those from other courses who share an interest in economics.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-with-a-professional-placement-year-ba:
Economics (with a professional placement year) BA (Hons)
You can also b roaden your experience further with an option to apply for a professional placement year.
Exploring different disciplines in three electives – two in Year 1 and one in Year 2 – helps enrich your learning experience .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Economics (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
You can also boost your employability with an option to apply for a professional placement year.
Exploring a different discipline in one elective in Year 1 helps enrich your learning experience .
You’ll develop communication, analytical, software and numeracy skills.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-data-science-bsc:
Economics and Data Science BSc (Hons)
There is a growing demand for economists with digital and big data skills.
This course will give you the practical skills, knowledge and confidence to tackle real-world challenges – from constructing socioeconomic policy to assessing individual behaviour.
At Sussex, we’re committed to making an innovative and transformative contribution to digital and data futures.
You’ll learn from experts in the University of Sussex Business School and the School of Engineering and Informatics.
The course integrates emerging technologies, including simulations and adaptive learning platforms.
You’ll explore:
From workshops to industry collaboration and field visits, you’ll apply your learning to real-world scenarios.
You’ll gain advanced data analytical skills and learn how to apply them to large data sets, as well as data communication, visualisation and presentation skills.
This diverse skill set will open doors to many career opportunities.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready for analyst roles in banking, research institutions, economic consultancies, government policy advising, and more.
ABB, including Mathematics
A-levels must include Mathematics
You will need A-level Mathematics, normally with grade B, in addition to the Access to HE Diploma.
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade grade A at A-level and, M2 and M2 in two Pre-Us.
Either your A-levels or Principal Subjects must include Mathematics
Your A-level must be in Mathematics.
Grades BB in A-levels and Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Highers must include Mathematics, grade B.
Ideally, you will also have an Advanced Higher in Mathematics (grade B).
ABB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels, including Mathematics at grade B.
You get introduced to the core principles of economics and strengthen your applied mathematical skills.
Exploring programming concepts, you’ll learn about algorithmic problem solving.
You’ll explore the fundamentals of data structures hands-on in lab learning.
Teaching methods typically include lectures, seminars and practicals/workshops .
60%: Lecture 28%: Seminar 12%: Practical
Assessment methods typically include examinations and coursework.
28%: Coursework 72%: Examination
This year of study includes approximately 1,200 hours of work.
This breaks down into about 240 hours of contact time and about 960 hours of independent study.
You’ll move on to more advanced study and explore real-world applications.
Alongside developing your skills in statistics and econometrics, you can choose to study microeconomic or macroeconomic theory in more detail.
You’ll continue your journey into data science, data coding and visualisation applications in economics, and applied machine learning techniques.
53%: Lecture 22%: Seminar 25%: Practical
Assessment methods typically include examinations, coursework and a practicals/project.
35%: Coursework 45%: Examination 20%: Practical
Applied modules in economics and applications of data science, machine learning and text analysis will help you bring your skills and learning together.
From growth and inequality to economics of crime, you’ll have the opportunity to broaden your knowledge in specialised areas.
You’ll also write a dissertation on an applied topic.
Teaching methods typically include lectures, seminars and practicals/laboratory .
57%: Lecture 18%: Seminar 25%: Practical
24%: Coursework 46%: Examination 30%: Practical
This breaks down into about 200 hours of contact time and about 1,000 hours of independent study.
Associate Professor in Economics
View profile of Pawel Dziewulski
View profile of Matthew Embrey
View profile of Adnan Fakir
View profile of Bridget Kauma
Associate Professor Emerita
View profile of Julie Litchfield
View profile of Tom Potoms
View profile of Luca Rondina
Assistant Professor in Computer Science
View profile of Alessio Santamaria
These skills mean you could go into a wide range of graduate jobs, including in:
Based in the University of Sussex Business School, you’ll get extensive career support.
This includes connecting you with employers, alumni mentoring, networking, guest lectures and workplace skills development.
The University of Sussex Business School is home to the UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO).
This leading independent group analyses the UK’s trading future after Brexit.
We also have the Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab where you can access real-time data from the Bloomberg Professional services platform.
The active Economics Society at Sussex also provides further networking opportunities.
The Society invites guest speakers and runs events that bring together Economics students and others who share an interest in economics.
BCC, including Mathematics
BCC from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels, including Mathematics at grade C.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-data-science-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Economics and Data Science (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-finance-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Economics and Finance (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-management-studies-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Economics and Management Studies (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-sustainable-development-bsc:
Economics and Sustainable Development BSc (Hons)
Sustainable development is key to helping future generations flourish.
Despite global efforts, our uncertain world can make this feel difficult to achieve.
Is it possible to balance development with ecological preservation?
And how can we ensure we meet the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)?
More than ever, we need innovative strategies and effective resource management.
We need people who understand interconnected challenges to generate long-term prosperity.
On this course, you’ll develop the skills to address sustainability issues by examining the complex dynamics of environmental change, human wellbeing and economic growth.
Integrating economics, geography and international development, you'll gain a multidisciplinary perspective on sustainable development.
You’ll learn from academics with teaching and research excellence in economics, climate change, sustainability, development, quantitative methods and applied policy analysis.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready for a wide range of career opportunities.
This could include:
In your first year, you’ll build a strong foundation in economics by exploring core principles of microeconomics and macroeconomics.
You’ll also develop essential mathematical skills tailored to economics, providing the analytical tools needed for more advanced study.
Alongside, you will be introduced to climate change, environmental risks and global development, in a rigorous fashion by exploring policy and politics that will help you understand the challenges of managing natural resources and mitigating environmental crises.
You’ll move on to more advanced study and engage in real-word applications.
Concurrently, you will explore environmental and sustainable management issues while looking at challenges and innovations in global development.
This combination of rigorous theoretical training and real-world applications will prepare you to tackle the intersection of economics, environment, and development.
Teaching methods typically include a combination of Lectures and Seminars .
67%: Lecture 33%: Seminar
Assessments typically involve an examination that carries greater weight and one or two secondary assessments.
30%: Coursework 70%: Examination
In your second year, you’ll build on foundational knowledge with advanced study in microeconomics and econometrics, equipping you with the tools to analyse complex economic systems.
You’ll study environmental economics to understand the economic drivers of environmental challenges and explore practical solutions.
Alongside these core modules, you’ll sharpen your technical skills through data coding and visualization, gaining proficiency in the techniques essential for modern economic and environmental analysis.
You’ll also broaden your perspective on climate change by rigorously examining its causes, impacts, and mitigation strategies.
You’ll be introduced to different environmental perspectives on development and geographies of the living earth.
In your final year, you’ll deepen your expertise by focusing on climate change economics, the economics of development, and advanced data science.
You’ll also have the flexibility to tailor your studies to your interests, with options in areas like international trade, applied econometrics, and sustainability in policy.
To further expand your understanding of sustainable development, you can choose from optional modules covering topics such as environmental disasters, political ecology, environmental justice, food security, and global development politics.
View profile of Rocco d'Este
View profile of Diego De La Fuente Stevens
View profile of Panu Pelkonen
View profile of Richard Tol
We'll help prepare you for an impactful and diverse career.
You'll be able to help shape policies and strategies that drive sustainable and inclusive growth.
You'll graduate ready to pursue a range of careers, including:
Your job opportunities will span industries such as renewable energy, environmental consultancy, international development, financial services, and technology.
You may also find roles in public-sector organisations, NGOs and global institutions.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics-and-sustainable-development-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Economics and Sustainable Development (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-economics-bsc:
Mathematics with Economics BSc (Hons)
We apply mathematics to solve real-world economic issues.
On this course, you’ll get to understand the relationship between mathematics and economics by:
You’ll learn from leading mathematicians and world-renowned economists, who are experts across both areas.
Their research feeds into your teaching at every stage.
Your core modules develop your knowledge of pure and applied mathematics.
Options allow you to tailor your degree to your particular interests.
Areas of study include:
To develop your analytical and modelling skills, you’ll use industry-standard software such as MATLAB, Python and R.
There’s a focus on employability.
You’ll gain skills that are widely applicable, and will enable you to succeed in the world of business and economics.
You’ll have a careers coach and opportunities to engage with potential employers.
In your first year, you’ll explore the basics of mathematics and economics.
68%: Lecture 12%: Seminar 20%: Practical
In Year 2, you’ll continue exploring foundations in mathematics and economics, and add probability and statistics.
83%: Lecture 8%: Seminar 9%: Practical
29%: Coursework 71%: Examination
And you can choose the topics that interest you most from a range of mathematical options .
75%: Lecture 20%: Seminar 5%: Practical
21%: Coursework 65%: Examination 1%: Practical 13%: Written assessment
The Department of Mathematics is a friendly community of like-minded people who are passionate about their subject.
Collaboration is encouraged and our lecturers have an open-door policy so you’ll always have support when you need it.
View profile of Masoumeh Dashti
Professor of Mathematics
View profile of Peter Giesl
Professor of Applied Mathematics
View profile of Yuliya Kyrychko
Reader in Mathematics
View profile of Omar Lakkis
View profile of Ali Taheri
Our graduates go onto a range of careers in finance and accounting, consulting, teaching and engineering.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-economics-mmath:
Mathematics with Economics MMath
On this integrated Masters course, you’ll get to understand the relationship between mathematics and economics by:
In your final year, you’ll develop your skills in an advanced research project.
This course is particularly relevant if you’re interested in a career in research, academia or industry.
You’ll also take further economics modules and choose options from a range of mathematical modules.
80%: Lecture 4%: Seminar 16%: Practical
31%: Coursework 24%: Examination 6%: Practical 39%: Written assessment

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy-politics-and-economics-ppe-ba:
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) BA (Hons)
The world around us is ever-changing.
PPE offers approaches to understanding what surrounds us – and gives you the skills and insights to make a difference.
At Sussex, you’ll learn from experts working on research in global politics, international trade and continental philosophy.
For the first two years of your degree, you study all three subjects:
In Year 3, you specialise in the two of the three subjects that interest you the most.
When you graduate, you’ll have research, communication and critical thinking skills.
You’ll be ready for:
In your final year, you have the opportunity to apply for a competitive internship with a Westminster MP.
AAB-ABB
We will also consider applicants with grade 5 in Maths if you are taking A-level Accounting, Business, Chemistry, Economics, Maths, Physics, Psychology, LIBF Diploma in Financial Studies, AAT Diploma or AQA Level 3 Certificate in Maths studies/Core Maths (grade B)
The Access to HE Diploma should ideally be in the humanities or social sciences.
French Baccalauréat with overall final result between 13/20 - 14/20.
Edward: My favourite thing about studying PPE here at Sussex is being able to study it in Brighton.
Brighton is such a cultural hub that it balances so well with an academic course like PPE...
making such a great mixed university experience.
Associate Professor of Philosophy
View profile of Corine Besson
Professor of Ethics and Epistemology
View profile of Anthony Booth
Professor of Cognitive Philosophy
View profile of Andy Clark
Assistant Professor of Philosophy
View profile of Robb Dunphy
View profile of Gordon Finlayson
View profile of Daniel Molto
Professor of Philosophy
View profile of Mahon O'Brien
View profile of Sarah Sawyer
Professor of European Philosophy
View profile of Tanja Staehler
View profile of Robyn Waller
View profile of Daniel Williams
Develop skills in communication, critical thinking and research with a Philosophy, Politics and Economic BA from Sussex.
Gain the skills and experience for a wide range of jobs in areas like multinational companies, non-governmental organisations, advising governments and managing organisations.
Outside the classroom, you can join our Philosophy or Politics Societies where you:
You will also benefit from specialist economics career events and workshops where you can:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Philosophy

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/education-ba:
Education BA (Hons)
If you want to influence education practice in diverse settings across people's lives, or plan education policy, this degree is for you.
You’ll study the broad spectrum of education, including formal and informal contexts, from schools to universities and from community to refugee and arts education.
You’ll gain the skills to support education from early years to older age by studying topics including:
Our interdisciplinary approach incorporates history, politics and philosophy, through to sociology, psychology and policy.
You will also take electives from other subjects, f rom philosophy to law and modern languages, to open your mind to other disciplines and tailor your degree to your interests.
You’ll also learn from our experts’ diverse international education research specialisms, from the role of education in conflict zones to learning in prisons, and children’s literacy to how sustainability is taught across the world.
You’ll get to study education in the area that interests you, from infant schools to arts, museums and refugee education.
ABBBB-BBBBB
The T Level should be in Education and Childcare
You’ll be encouraged to address philosophical and political questions about education globally, including questioning your own education.
You’ll develop your teamwork, communication and problem-solving skills in collaboration with your tutor and peers.
Teaching methods typically include seminars with teacher and student presentations, group work , discussion and interactive activities .
This breaks down into about 165 hours of contact time and about 1,035 hours of independent study.
In addition to your teaching, you’ll develop employability skills by going on a placement in an educational context (40-60 hours) in the area that interests you most – from infant schools to the arts and museums , to refugee, peace-building or community education contexts .
This breaks down into about 157 hours of contact time and about 1,043 hours of independent study.
You’ll gain the confidence to work independently.
You’ll conduct a research project, collect and analyse your data, and write up your final dissertation.
Your research project could, for example, be linked to your placement in Year 2, researching an area that your partner organisation and you believe needs greater understanding.
This breaks down into about 166 hours of contact time and about 1,034 hours of independent study.
View profile of Birgul Kutan
View profile of Keith Perera
Professor of Education, Literacy and Language
View profile of Julia Sutherland
This course will prepare you for careers relating to the broad field of education.
This could be anywhere from early years to adult education, and in the UK or globally.
You’ll gain skills and expertise for education-related careers, including:
On graduating, some students may choose to enhance their specialist knowledge, progressing to an Education MA, International Education and Development MA or Psychology MSc.
Other students may want to train as teachers through a PGCE course.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/education-with-psychology-ba:
Education with Psychology BA (Hons)
If you want to influence education practice or plan education policy, this degree is for you.
And you will be able to do this with a firm understanding of psychology.
You’ll explore education in both formal and informal settings, from education in schools to universities, and community and refugee education, to arts education.
You’ll study topics including:
Through your psychology modules you’ll investigate how people learn through every stage of life.
You’ll learn about child development through social, biological, cognitive and clinical psychology studies.
You’ll also consider the social, emotional and mental heath needs of learners.
This experience will enhance your understanding of the field of education.
Our passionate academics are experts in teaching and have influenced education policy.
Their diverse research specialisms include:
the role of education in conflict zones
Combining critical theory and creative practice, you will develop the core knowledge and skills that you will need for the rest of your degree and career.
These will be the foundation blocks for your learning and experience with us.
Teaching methods for education typically include seminars with teacher and student presentations, group work, discussion and interactive activities.
You will also have psychology lectures .
25%: Lecture 75%: Seminar
Assessment methods typically include coursework with a wide range of creative and authentic assessments.
Psychology assessment is by examination .
75%: Coursework 25%: Examination
View profile of Alice Skelton
This course will prepare you for careers in education- and psychology-related professions.
This includes early years to adult education, and in the UK or globally.
You’ll gain skills and expertise for a range of careers, including:
The course will also support students who wish to continue on academic journeys by progressing to postgraduate study at Sussex.
On graduating, you may choose to enhance your specialist knowledge by progressing to an Education MA, International Education and Development MA or Psychology MSc.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-language-and-linguistics-with-tesol-ba:
English Language and Linguistics (with TESOL) BA (Hons)
On this BA, you’ll develop a broad outlook on language and linguistics, as well as a wide range of research and communication skills.
In addition, you’ll prepare for the Trinity College London Level 5 Certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (Trinity CertTESOL) teaching qualification.
You’ll have the opportunity to tailor your degree to your passion.
This BA enables you to choose from a wide range of specialist areas and examine language from psychological, cultural and historical perspectives.
From child language acquisition to forensic linguistics – our extensive range of modules and supportive learning environment means you graduate with the skills to develop your career in a range of areas.
This includes areas from journalism, PR and new media, to language teaching, and speech and language therapy.
And gaining the Trinity CertTESOL puts you in an excellent position for roles in language teaching in the UK or abroad.
You also have the opportunity to apply for study abroad or a professional placement year.
You’ll be part of a close-knit community of staff and students who support each other.
Amelia: My favourite thing about my course is the mix of theory and practical elements that I get.
So I don’t only just learn how to be a teacher but I also get to practise it.
And that practice is throughout the year, and it’s very beneficial for my future.
Assistant Professor in Spanish and Linguistics
View profile of Alba Arias Alvarez
Associate Professor in English Language and Linguistics
View profile of Lynne Cahill
Professor of Linguistics
View profile of M.Lynne Murphy
Reader in English Language and Linguistics
View profile of Justyna Robinson
Professor of Discourse and Persuasion
View profile of Charlotte Taylor
On your course, you’ll have opportunities to apply your knowledge of linguistics in real-world settings.
And the TESOL pathway gives you specialist skills in language pedagogy.
This means that when you graduate, you’ll have a broad range of skills including:
You’ll have the knowledge and hands-on experience for a range of rewarding careers in sectors including:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-beng:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons)
From renewable energies, autonomous cars, robotics and mobile communication to advances in medicine, electrical and electronic engineering underpins all facets of our daily lives.
Our research in sensors, flexible electronics, medical robotics and imaging, 5G communications and space systems informs our teaching.
You’ll study in our Future Technologies Labs, which provide a new space for building robots, programming embedded systems and digital signal processors, as well as computer design and modelling suites.
You’ll use our electronics and control engineering laboratories, and electrical drive systems, and could be part of one of the Formula Student or Medical Robotic teams.
As you progress, you’ll focus on electrical or electronic engineering.
You’ll get specialist training in applications ranging from sensor design to hardware accelerators, and from semiconductor devices to electric motors for future green transport.
We have dedicated academic advisers to support you during you time at Sussex, as well as a team of student mentors.
You’ll gain hands-on experience with industry-standard equipment.
In your final year, you’ll work on a project inspired by industrial needs.
All this gives you the confidence, skills and experience for the next step in your career.
Recent Engineering students have gone on placements at:
Professor of Communications Engineering
View profile of Falah Ali
View profile of Rodrigo Aviles-Espinosa
View profile of Phil Birch
View profile of Chris Chatwin
Visiting Lecturer
View profile of Hareesh Godaba
Associate Professor in Engineering
View profile of Nicolas Herzig
Reader in Robotics
View profile of Yanan Li
Assistant Professor in Engineering
View profile of Reza Mohammadkhani
View profile of Maziar Nekovee
Associate Professor in Control Engineering
View profile of Bao Kha Nguyen
Associate Professor in Communications and Signal Processing
View profile of Menguc Oner
Associate Professor in Electrical and Electronic Engineering
View profile of Elizabeth Rendon-Morales
View profile of Daniel Roggen
Professor in Advanced Networks and Communications
View profile of Zhengguo Sheng
Associate Professor Electrical Engineering
View profile of Spyros Skarvelis-Kazakos
View profile of Rupert Young
Gain the skills for a career in engineering, and benefit from our links with companies like Jaguar, Siemens and IBM.
The skills you develop on this course enable you to go into graduate jobs in sectors including:
You can also meet employers at careers events.
Recent sessions have included an event about the NHS Scientist Training Programme, talks by IBM and Atkins, and advice on applying for graduate schemes.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-meng:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering MEng
The Master of Engineering (MEng) degree lets you specialise your degree with a range of options and provides you with the educational requirements needed to become a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-beng:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering (with an industrial placement year) BEng (Hons)
The optional year in industry is a valuable opportunity to experience work as an engineer within a commercial company.
You’ll be able to contribute to design products and services that will shape the society of the future.
We also offer this course as a three-year BEng without the industrial placement year , as a four-year MEng , or as a five-year MEng with an industrial placement year .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-meng:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering (with an industrial placement year) MEng
Our Master of Engineering (MEng) degree lets you specialise your degree with a range of options and provides you with the educational requirements needed to become a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering-with-a-foundation-year-beng:
By starting your Engineering degree studies at Sussex with our Foundation Year, you can explore a variety of engineering applications and discover what’s best for you.
You also develop the skills to help you succeed in further study.
Whether you’re most interested in automotive, electrical or mechanical engineering, you’ll learn from our expert faculty and benefit from our links with world-leading companies.
After successfully completing your Foundation Year, you can choose which of our Engineering degrees you wish to pursue.
A-levels should normally include Mathematics with a grade C.
Applications from A-level students without Mathematics A-level will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
You will need to demonstrate aptitude in higher-level Mathematics (for example A-level Physics).
A-levels or Pre-Us should normally include Mathematics M3 or grade C A-level.
Applications without Mathematics A-level will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Higher Levels must normally include Mathematics, with a grade of 4.
Grade C in A-level and Merit, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
You will need to have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 4 (or grade C).
A-levels should normally include Mathematics at grade C.
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma should normally be in Engineering with a Merit in Calculus to Solve Engineering Problems or Further Mathematics for Engineering Technicians (in the BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma).
Highers must include Mathematics.
You will also need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade B.
You will need to have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade B (or grade 6).
You will need to demonstrate aptitude in higher-level mathematics.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with a final result of at least 11/20 in Mathematics.
You will need a very good final result in Mathematics (at least 11/15) at a high level.
Highers must include Mathematics.
You must have at least O5 in Mathematics.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 65th percentile including Mathematics.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 7 to 7.5 including good grades in Mathematics.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include C grades in the majority of subjects including Mathematics.
CDD, including grade C in Mathematics.
Grade C in A-level and Merit, Pass in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
Grades CD in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Find out more about the Department of Engineering and Design

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-beng:
Mechanical Engineering BEng (Hons)
As we strive for sustainability and reduced carbon emissions, Mechanical Engineering concepts are essential to make the world a cleaner and safer place.
Our Mechanical Engineering BEng provides you with the training to lead multidisciplinary teams in the development of complex systems.
These include sustainable power generation, power-trains for automotive vehicles, and jet engines for aircraft propulsion.
At Sussex, we undertake world-class research, which enriches your teaching.
Our Dynamics, Control and Vehicle Research Group and the Thermo-Fluid Mechanics Research Centre, develop innovative concepts in vehicle technology and efficient aero-engines, among other things.
There is a dedicated manufacturing lab with state-of-the-art facilities such as CNC machines and 3-D printers.
You'll be able to specialise in subjects such as CAD, computational fluid dynamics through optional modules and work on areas such as control, vibration, tribology, or aerodynamics through project work including Formula Student and Wind-driven car projects.
Find out about the latest award-winning design from one of our placement students
Gain the skills for a career in engineering, and benefit from our industry links with companies like Jaguar, IBM, Siemens and Thales.
The technical, team-working and design skills you develop on this course mean you can go into graduate jobs in sectors including:
You can also meet graduate employers at careers events.
Recent sessions have included talks by IBM and Atkins, and advice on applying for graduate schemes.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-meng:
Mechanical Engineering MEng
The Master of Engineering (MEng) option lets you specialise your degree with a range of options and provides you with the educational requirements needed to become a Chartered Engineer.
Y ou will be trained to lead multidisciplinary teams in the development of complex systems, including in sustainable power generation, power-trains for automotive vehicles, and jet engines for aircraft propulsion.
We also offer this course with an industrial placement year , as a three-year BEng , or as a four-year BEng with an industrial placement year .
Find out more about ATAS clearance on the Student Hub.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-beng:
Mechanical Engineering (with an industrial placement year) BEng (Hons)
This degree will enable you to lead multidisciplinary teams in the development of complex systems, including sustainable power generation, power-trains for automotive vehicles, and jet engines for aircraft propulsion.
The optional placement year also gives you the chance to get real work experience for a year in industry, while still being supported by Sussex.
We undertake world-class research, which enriches your teaching.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-meng:
Mechanical Engineering (with an industrial placement year) MEng
The Master of Engineering (MEng) degree lets you specialise your degree with a range of options and provides you with the educational requirements needed to become a Chartered Engineer.
The optional placement year also gives you the chance to get real work experience for a year in industry, while still being supported by the department at Sussex.
You'll be able to specialise in subjects such as CAD, computational fluid dynamics through optional modules.
You'll also work on areas such as control, vibration, tribology, or aerodynamics through project work including Formula Student and Wind-driven car projects.
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , as a four-year BEng with an industrial placement year , or as a three-year BEng .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-with-robotics-beng:
Mechanical Engineering with Robotics BEng (Hons)
On this course, you'll have the opportunity to:
This combination will make you highly employable in various industries – from designing and developing robots, to working on autonomous vehicles, automation, mechatronics, automotive, aerospace and renewable energy projects.
Our teaching is based on our cutting-edge research in robotics, dynamics and control, sensors and flexible electronics.
You’ll study in our state-of-the-art laboratories.
There’s a new environment for:
You’ll have access to our flexible manufacturing system, industrial robotic manipulator, humanoid robots, a fleet of drones and autonomous vehicles.
To ensure your success at Sussex, you’ll be supported by a dedicated academic adviser throughout your time with us.
You’ll also benefit from a team of student mentors who are here to assist you on your academic journey.
When you graduate, you’ll have the practical skills, knowledge and confidence to start your career.
Find out about the benefits of an integrated Masters year .
Your time in industry develops your technical, team-working and transferable skills as you apply what you have learned in your studies to a business environment.
A year in industry is a proven way to fast-track your career.
Many students who undertake an industrial placement perform better academically on their return to their course and are more likely to secure employment as a direct result of their year in industry.
View profile of Arash Moradinegade Dizqah

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-with-robotics-meng:
Mechanical Engineering with Robotics MEng

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-with-robotics-with-an-industrial-placement-year-beng:
Mechanical Engineering with Robotics (with an industrial placement year) BEng (Hons)
You’ll also have the chance to apply for a placement to get work experience in industry, while still being supported by the Department at Sussex.
We offer you the chance to take an industrial placement year as part of your course.
The industrial placement provides you with the opportunity to spend a year working in industry, in an area relevant to your course, and to receive a salary.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mechanical-engineering-with-robotics-with-an-industrial-placement-year-meng:
Mechanical Engineering with Robotics (with an industrial placement year) MEng

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/product-design-bsc:
Product Design BSc (Hons)
At Sussex, you’ll learn to create products that satisfy the needs and behaviours of people and our changing society – both now and into the future.
We’ll ground you in critical design thinking and research.
This helps you develop informed solutions and produce them through responsible prototyping and manufacturing models.
You’ll also design your products to fit within the circular economy – a complex systems-based model of working that is regenerative to the planet and takes sustainability to a new level.
Your degree prepares you for success.
In recent years, our students have:
You learn to apply advanced mathematical and engineering principles along with human-based methods to evaluate, analyse and design material objects, systems and environments .
You learn to apply foundational mathematical and engineering principles along with human-based methods to evaluate, analyse and design material objects, systems and environments.
Student 1: My favourite piece of product design is the Lego brick.
It's infinitely creative, there's so much you can do with it.
Student 2: My favourite would be the 3D printers.
It's a really new technology that we haven't fully explored yet.
Student 3: Loop earplugs, instead of blocking the noise, it filters it.
And I just think they're a really good piece of design.
Student 4: The silicone menstrual cup, they're so convenient and they're really improving the lives of so many people.
Student 5: Regenerative packaging, because they're very environmentally friendly and I think it's a very creative and inspiring use of design.
Student 4: My favourite project right now is the live brief with a group.
Student 5: Disassembling a scooter and then redesigning a better scooter.
I think it's a really cool way of getting into product design.
Student 1: We're writing magazines of our own to help us focus on our own design philosophy.
I think that in the future, product design can take me anywhere.
It's such an important subject in so many fields.
Student 2: Right now, I'm on an industrial placement at the International Workplace Group, looking into new ways we can make their company more progressive and more sustainable.
Student 5: In one of my courses, we worked with whittling spoons.
So, we used axes, spoon knives and many other things, it was really interesting and I love the course
Student 1: Design can most certainly, change the world.
It is the beginning of all things.
It translates what we believe can be done into what can be done.
Student 4: There's so many interesting areas to explore.
Student 2: We can be way more sustainable.
Student 5: There's pretty much infinite possibilities.
[On screen text: Study Product Design]
[END CARD: University of Sussex logo]
A-levels should include Art or a Design subject normally at grade B.
Without A-levels in these areas you will still be considered but will need to demonstrate a strong, recent background in art and design through other means.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (grade B) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
The Access to HE Diploma will need to contain substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in Art or design.
Applicants without an Access containing Art or Design will still be considered but will need to demonstrate a strong, recent background in art and design through other means.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (grade B) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design through your Access you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
You must have either Art or a Design subject at A-level grade B or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject with at least an M2.
Without qualifications in these areas you will still be considered but will need to demonstrate a strong, recent background in art and design through other means.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (grade B) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
Higher Levels should include either Visual Arts or Design Technology with at least grade 5.
Applicants without one of these at Higher Level will still be considered but will need to demonstrate a strong, recent background in art and design through other means.
A-level should be Art or a Design subject.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (grade B) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma would normally be in Art and Design.
Applicants without this will still be considered but will need to demonstrate a strong, recent background in art and design through other means.
Highers must include Art or a design subject.
A-levels should include Art or a Design subject.
Applicants without A-levels in these areas will still be considered but will need to demonstrate a strong, recent background in Art and Design through other means.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade B (grade 5) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade B (grade 6).
Evidence of academic studies in Art or design with good results is essential and a good level of Mathematics.
Evidence of academic studies in Art or design with good results is essential.
75% - 80% from ISC Indian School certificate of Education (CISCE) 80% from SSC All India Senior School Certificate Examination (CBSE) 80% HSC higher Secondary Certificate ( Maharashtra )
You must also have at least grade O3 in Mathematics.
Evidence of academic studies in art or design and mathematics with good results are essential.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 75th percentile including Art or a design subject.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.0 and 8.5 including a score of 8 in Art or design subject.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 2.0 from 4 subjects including Art or a design subject or demonstrate a strong, recent background in art and design through other means.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and evidence of academic studies in Art or design with good results is essential.
In some cases we may request a portfolio of your work.
You’ll have the opportunity to work on live briefs.
You’ll gain valuable experience working with leading experts from a broad range of companies.
Recent collaborations include:
This year culminates in an exhibition at the annual Product Design Degree Show where students meet trade professionals, potential employers and the media.
Associate Professor in Product Design
View profile of Giovanni Contreras Garcia
View profile of Steven Follen
Senior Teaching Fellow in Creativity and Design
View profile of Clare Harris
Professor of Design & Creative Technology
View profile of Ann Light
Assistant Professor in Product Design
View profile of Bella Malya
View profile of Claire Potter
During your studies, you’ll have the opportunity to work on live industry briefs.
You’ll gain valuable experience working with leading experts from a broad range of companies .
In recent years, a team of product designers won the Inventors Workshop New Designers Award, creating the brand-new toy concept Bandit at the Toy and Game Fair in London .
The students worked together as a team on an industrial live brief, using the skills they gained at Sussex .
You’ll develop creative, problem-solving and project-management skills throughout your course.
There are tailored careers events opportunities including drop-in sessions, industry talks and one-to-one support .
Your Product Design degree prepares you for jobs in manufacturing, consultancy-based design and the wider creative industries (graphics, marketing, research and digital design) .
Product Designers can work in a variety of roles including:
Find out more about the Department of Engineering and Design

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/product-design-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Product Design (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
At Sussex, you’ll learn to create products that satisfy the needs and behaviours of people and our rapidly changing society – both now and into the future.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (or grade B) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (or grade B).
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (or grade B) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (or grade B).
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade B (or grade 5) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade B (or grade 6).
You must also have at least grade O4 in Mathematics.
We look at your full profile taking into account everything you are studying, including the high school graduation diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests and subject tests and/or ACT grades  We are particularly interested in AP tests and would ideally like to see three good AP scores.
If you have taken the SAT reasoning tests we'd normally expect a combined score of at least 1300 and will look for around 600 in relevant subject tests.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/robotic-and-mechatronic-engineering-beng:
Robotic and Mechatronic Engineering BEng (Hons)
Begin your journey towards becoming a skilled engineer in robotics and mechatronics – our emphasis on engineering practices sets you up for success.
You’ll engage in exciting topics including mechatronics, autonomous vehicles, embedded systems, robotics and control engineering.
You’ll work on cutting-edge technologies and real-world challenges, honing your problem-solving skills.
This hands-on approach not only empowers you but also equips you with the essential skills for your future career.
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared for a career in robotics and automation engineering with a wide diversity of application sectors including:
View profile of Leonardo Garcia Garcia
View profile of Luis Ponce Cuspinera
View profile of Carlo Tiseo
Gain the skills for a career in engineering, and benefit from our links with companies such as Jaguar, Siemens, Renishaw, Thales, GE Aviation and IBM.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/robotic-and-mechatronic-engineering-meng:
Robotic and Mechatronic Engineering MEng
This Master of Engineering (MEng) degree lets you specialise your degree with a range of options and provides you with the educational requirements needed to become a Chartered Engineer.
In your final year, you’ll have the opportunity to choose and explore advanced topics at the forefront of mechatronics and robotics.
This includes advanced electronic systems, cybernetics, neural networks and image processing.
By practising marketing analysis and financial strategic planning, you’ll not only develop your technical knowledge but also sharpen your entrepreneurship skills.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/robotic-and-mechatronic-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-beng:
Robotic and Mechatronic Engineering (with an industrial placement year) BEng (Hons)
We offer you the chance to apply for an industrial placement year as part of your course.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/robotic-and-mechatronic-engineering-with-an-industrial-placement-year-meng:
Robotic and Mechatronic Engineering (with an industrial placement year) MEng

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/creative-writing-ba:
Creative Writing BA (Hons)
The world is strange, surprising and full of wonder.
It is also in crisis: from climate change to social justice, imaginative minds and committed voices are needed to articulate this reality and to forge spaces of consolation, repair or joyous escape.
At Sussex, you’ll be empowered to craft writing that inspires, challenges conventions and reimagines what’s possible.
You’ll explore the compelling, complex and wonderfully weird world of literature and writing in its broadest scope.
Whether your passion is epic fantasy, interactive ghost stories, independent movies, free-verse poetry, righteous journalism or something entirely new, you’ll gain the imaginative resourcefulness, technical skills and confidence to turn ambitious ideas into reality.
From day one we treat you as a writer.
Our experimental approach teaches creativity by helping you transform your lived experience into vivid poetry or three-dimensional characterisation.
Using procedural creativity – a playful process – we loosen up the fear of the white page.
We help you develop your powers of observation and analysis so you can reconfigure the social interactions that surround you into fiction.
You’ll create work that remains true to the complexity of the world and the human experience, interpreting, portraying and understanding our amazing – if messy – lives.
This course is for you if you’d like to:
When you graduate, you’ll be ready to hit the ground running in a range of careers where your flair with language, soft skills and experience of storycraft will help you stand out.
This includes the creative industries, heritage, commerce, publishing, law, media and education.
The message of the first year is simple: engage and trust the process.
15%: Lecture 35%: Seminar 40%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include portfolios, writing projects and written coursework.
Exploring different disciplines in two electives in Year 1 helps enrich your learning experience .
In Year 2, you’ll pursue your enthusiasms by choosing options including writing fiction, poetry, life-writing, journalism, songwriting, screenwriting or writing for games.
You’ll also have the opportunity to get practical advice from industry professionals .
What do you want to write?
A chapbook of poems?
A screenplay?
A sequence of short stories?
Creative non-fiction?
We’ll support you and your vision for your final writing project.
In addition, some options allow you to take writing methods into the world.
This could include gaining teaching experience, or working with regional archives and galleries .
At Sussex, we’ve been teaching Creative Writing for over 25 years.
Our faculty includes:
Associate Professor in Digital and Multimedia Journalism
View profile of John Doyle
View profile of Rob Sharp
Reader in English & Art Writing
View profile of Bethan Stevens
You’ll graduate as an experienced writer with an understanding of pathways to publication.
Whatever writing specialism you choose during your studies, you’ll develop your ability to comprehend, to imagine and to create.
These skills are valued by employers across a wide range of sectors.
You’ll rely on your skills in any role where you’re expected to:
On your course, you’ll be able to choose options based on skills needed in arts organisations, charities and industry.
This includes the opportunity to apply for placements.
As a graduate, you’ll have the real-world experience for a range of careers including:
Our undergraduate courses also prepare you for Masters degrees , such as our Creative and Critical Writing MA.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-ba:
English BA (Hons)
English at Sussex is so much more than a traditional Literature degree.
With us, you have the opportunity to challenge ideas and make your voice heard.
Working with world-leading researchers and teachers, you’ll develop the critical skills to question norms and contribute to a changing society.
And you’ll expand your potential as a thinker and communicator.
We’ll help you redefine what literature means.
This will include exploring texts from diverse cultures, genres and periods.
You’ll be able to connect your writing to era-defining challenges such as AI, climate change and global conflicts.
This course is political, creative and radical – but also practical.
You’ll have the opportunity to:
Here in the dynamic city of Brighton, you’ll join a supportive, independent and intellectually curious community thriving on debate and originality.
When you graduate, you’ll have high-level creative, expressive and analytical skills but also the practical experience to hit the ground running in careers ranging from media to commerce, government, education, law, and beyond.
If you want a degree that gives you the skills to rethink the world and the practical tools to reshape it – this BA is for you.
35%: Lecture 40%: Seminar 15%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
An English degree at Sussex hones transferable skills in critical analysis, communication, independent thinking and problem-solving.
You’ll be superbly prepared for postgraduate study and for careers in fields such as:
Sussex hosts tailored careers events, including workshops, talks and regular drop-in sessions.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-and-creative-writing-ba:
English and Creative Writing BA (Hons)
It is also in crisis: from climate change to social justice, imaginative minds and committed voices are needed to articulate this reality and forge spaces of consolation, repair or joyous escape.
This BA is more than a traditional literature course.
With us, you’ll study for a radical, inspirational and practical degree, ideal if you want to:
Working with our published writers and leading researchers, you’ll develop the critical understanding and creative techniques to flourish.
You’ll read texts from diverse cultures, genres and periods.
And you’ll connect your own writing to contemporary challenges such as AI, climate violence and global conflict.
Our approach to creativity invites inspiration by helping you work through thoughts, feelings and memories.
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared for a range of careers where your practical experience as well as creative, expressive and analytical skills will help you stand out.
This includes fields from media to commerce, publishing, government, education and law.
In Year 1, you’ll gain foundational skills in analysis, interpretation and theory.
You’ll also explore the fundamentals of creative writing You’ll practice your own writing and read mind-blowing texts from some of the greatest writers .
20%: Lecture 25%: Seminar 50%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
Exploring different disciplines in one elective in Year 1 helps enrich your learning experience .
In Year 2, you’ll dive deeper into the processes of writing, and hone your technical skills.
In your final year, we’ll support you and your vision for your final research or creative writing project.
In addition, some options allow you to take literary interpretation and writing methods into the world.
This could include gaining teaching experience, or working with regional archives and galleries.
Our experts in English literature studies have expertise ranging from the medieval to the present day.
And we’ve been teaching Creative Writing for over 25 years.
Honorary Research Fellow
View profile of Will Abberley
Associate Professor in Media and Communication
View profile of Marina Dekavalla
Associate Professor in 20th and 21st Century British Literature
View profile of Helen Tyson

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-and-film-studies-ba:
English and Film Studies BA (Hons)
Stories – on the page and on screen – shape culture, society and identity.
With us, you’ll explore how stories do this.
This radical, creative and practical degree is for you if you want to challenge ideas, rethink norms and make your voice heard in a rapidly changing world.
Based in the dynamic city of Brighton, you’ll join a diverse and intellectually curious community where debate, originality and independence thrive.
Supported by our experts, you’ll develop as a confident, critical and expressive thinker.
In Film Studies, you’ll;
You’ll gain experience in both disciplines – from engaging with local cinemas and Brighton’s international film festival, to working with cultural organisations, taking interdisciplinary modules.
Masterclasses, optional placements and research-led teaching will help you build skills in writing, presenting, critical analysis, creative expression and collaborative working.
The course empowers you to understand the world.
And it gives you the creative and critical tools to change it.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be a flexible, insightful communicator ready to thrive in a wide range of careers in areas including the media, publishing, education, law, government and the cultural industries.
You'll graduate from our English and Film Studies BA as an intellectually agile and critically rigorous communicator.
You'll develop transferable careers skills in independent thought, teamwork and research.
At Sussex, you can attend careers events tailored to your subject.
These include workshops, drop-in sessions and talks from industry professionals.
Access to careers support continues after graduation.
You can use your English and Film Studies degree for a career in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-and-history-ba:
English and History BA (Hons)
Literature and historical narratives have challenged authority, amplified marginalised voices, and forged new ways of seeing and being.
Joining us, you’ll become part of a dynamic community of students and experts who are passionate about words, ideas and the past’s power to transform the present.
English at Sussex is more than the study of great books.
It’s political, creative and practical.
History at Sussex prepares you to act.
It’s for you if you want to use the past to make a difference.
Throughout your degree, you’ll learn to gather and interpret evidence, write with purpose, and communicate across platforms.
You’ll have access to archives including the Mass Observation Archive and the University’s unique collections on decolonisation .
You can choose interdisciplinary modules, as well as apply to go on placement or to study abroad.
When you graduate, you’ll have the critical thinking, research and communication skills employers are looking for.
You’ll be well prepared for careers in fields such as publishing, heritage, media, law, education, policy and the creative industries.
Studying English and History at Sussex gives you transferable skills in researching, critical analysis, communication, independent thinking and problem-solving.
You could go on to further study, or use your English and History degree in fields such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-and-media-studies-ba:
English and Media Studies BA (Hons)
Explore how literature and the media shape our culture and society.
At Sussex, you examine the relationship between literary work and other cultural forms, and analyse different media.
You’re taught by researchers who produce documentaries, films and books.
You can shape your studies according to your interests and will be taught to produce your own critical and creative response to the world.
We offer a bold, forward-thinking curriculum that allows you to study 1,000 years of literature in new and progressive ways.
Our teaching has involved:
We encourage you to experiment with writing and understand its ability to transform the world we live in.
You’ll be supported by our experts.
They have links with the creative industries, as well as literary events such as the poetry series Placeholder and the festival The Coast is Queer .
Brighton is one of the UK’s fastest growing hubs for digital and creative media – perfect for your work experience and career opportunities.
This is a joint-honours course, offering you a combination of subjects, each taking up 50% of your time.
Studying English and Media Studies at Sussex means you develop transferable skills in critical analysis, verbal and written communication, independent thinking and creativity.
You can go on to further study, or use your degree for a career in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-language-and-linguistics-ba:
English Language and Linguistics BA (Hons)
Language is what makes us human, what makes societies function, what establishes cultures, what connects – and separates – us.
Studying this BA with us, you’ll develop the skills and knowledge you need to investigate communication from many angles.
Whether it’s how we learn languages, or how we can apply linguistics to forensic investigations, you’ll apply your expertise to real-world language challenges, and become an expert on language and communication.
You’ll join a welcoming and supportive international learning community.
We help you become a researcher from your first day at university.
You’ll be introduced to key concepts in English language and linguistics and learn to apply them to real-world data.
And by the end of your degree, you’ll have the confidence to lead an independent project showcasing your skills.
From data analysis to critical thinking and communicating with different audiences, this degree helps you develop transferable skills.
When you graduate, you’ll have the skills and confidence to excel in new situations and challenges.
You’ll be well prepared to use your linguistic and communication skills in a wide range of careers, including digital consumer intelligence, magazine editing, online safeguarding design, and diplomatic roles.
30%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 10%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include portfolios, language analysis reports, research projects, essays, briefing notes and varied forms of oral assessment such as short-form broadcasts and poster presentations.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english-language-and-literature-ba:
English Language and Literature BA (Hons)
Studying this BA with us, you’ll develop the critical skills to question norms, contribute to a changing society, and expand your potential as a thinker and communicator.
In English Language, you’ll:
In English Literature, you’ll:
English at Sussex is political, creative and radical – but also practical.
Opportunities for studying interdisciplinary modules, as well as applying for placements and study abroad will help you grow as a resourceful and versatile communicator.
Here in the dynamic city of Brighton, you’ll join a supportive, independent and intellectually curious community.
We thrive on debate and originality.
When you graduate, you’ll have the confidence to take on new situations and challenges.
You’ll have the creative, expressive and analytical skills, as well as the practical experience to hit the ground running in careers from media to commerce, government, education and law.
View profile of Melanie Green
View profile of Roberta Piazza
Associate Professor in Medieval English Literature
View profile of Katie Walter

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy-and-english-ba:
Philosophy and English BA (Hons)
Philosophy and English at Sussex will empower you to question everything, write with impact and shape the world around you.
We thrive on debate, rigour and originality.
And we’re known for our progressive approaches to both philosophy and literature.
With us, you’ll learn from professional philosophers and world-leading researchers, to explore everything from poetry to power, ethics to aesthetics, and truth to narrative.
You’ll engage with analytic and continental thought, with western and non-western traditions, and with literature that speaks across cultures and centuries.
Here in the dynamic city of Brighton, you’ll join a supportive, curious and politically engaged community.
From climate change and AI to justice, identity and social change, we’ll help you connect your thinking and writing to the challenges of today.
You’ll analyse ideas, argue clearly and craft original work that bridges theory and practice.
You’ll have the chance to:
When you graduate, you’ll think independently, write with flair and make an impact in the world.
You’ll have a powerful combination of expressive, analytical and ethical skills – and the confidence to pursue careers in areas such as law, media, education, policy, tech and the arts.
If you want to sharpen how you think and to deepen how you live, this degree is for you.
45%: Lecture 40%: Seminar 10%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include essays, briefs and reports, as well presentations and professional-facing tasks .
By taking a Philosophy and English degree at Sussex, you develop key skills in communication, research and critical thinking.
You are prepared for a range of jobs including careers in the Civil Service, government, the media or the arts.
Outside the classroom, you can join our Philosophy Society where you:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/film-studies-ba:
Film Studies BA (Hons)
With us, you’ll explore cinema’s cultural impact across time and its relevance to today’s audiovisual media.
You’ll examine how film shapes society, art, politics and identity.
And you’ll develop critical insight into global cinema.
Through our strong links with local cinemas and Brighton’s international film festival, you’ll develop your understanding of film exhibition.
This includes programming and promotion.
Masterclasses with industry professionals and alumni will give you valuable industry insights.
In our supportive Department, you’ll learn how film connects to broader cultural and technological changes, and how those insights can be applied beyond academia in real-world contexts.
build confidence in expressing complex ideas creatively and clearly
develop and learn to apply transferable skills by planning projects, presenting ideas, conducting research and writing essays
work both independently and in teams on a live brief with one of our industry partners
study your favourite genres while discovering new ones, helping you grow as a versatile thinker and communicator
By the time you graduate, you’ll be a flexible, collaborative problem-solver with the knowledge and skills valued by employers.
With the resilience and adaptability developed during your studies, you’ll be ready to thrive in a fast-changing world and pursue a wide range of careers.
UAL Level 3 Diploma and Extended Diploma in Creative Media Production and Technology with a grade of M- Merit.
From the very start of your degree, you’ll begin work on the essential skills and knowledge needed for a professional comprehension of film form and contexts.
You’ll engage with the fundamental processes of formal and critical analysis, as well as the histories of cinema development in Europe and internationally.
Teaching methods typically include a mix of lectures, workshops and seminars .
20%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 20%: Practical 10%: One-to-one
Assessment methods typically include written essays, illustrated reports and live/recorded presentations .
In Year 2, you’ll deepen your engagement with film form and non-Western film contexts, and encounter cinemas you may be less familiar with.
You’ll start thinking about future progression and careers.
Working on a live brief with one of our industry partners, you’ll gain experience for the workplace.
In Year 3, you’ll specialise in what interests you most.
With supervision, you’ll learn to project manage your work and choose from our exciting range of options.
Your final year is all about refining your focus, and guiding the development of your future career and study plans.
Our expert teaching, combined with the support you receive from our careers team, means you’ll develop key skills in communication, critical and creative thinking and working to deadlines.
You’ll be prepared for a future in a range of careers including cinema, television, marketing, events and communications.
communications co-ordinator, Cinecity Film Festival
film programmer, Brooklyn Academy of Music
sales and acquisitions executive, WestEnd Films, London.
(School of Media, Arts and Humanities careers database)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/design-and-business-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
We’re living in exciting times: start-ups, changing markets and evolving technologies create new opportunities for design and business.
On this course, you’ll explore how design has flourished alongside new technologies.
You’ll examine the fundamentals of business, and consider these in relation to design and ‘making’.
Focused teaching supports your transition into higher education, with an emphasis on university-level assessments, research skills and making the most of your studies.
On successful completion of this foundation year, you’ll progress onto one of our Product Design courses with a strong reputation for design education and innovation.
And you’ll be based in Brighton – a city at the forefront of the UK’s creative industries.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades CD at A-level and M3 in Pre-U.
You must also have good level of mathematics.
You must have at least grade O5 in Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
Our Foundation Year in Mathematics is ideal if you want to pursue a degree in mathematics, but your qualifications do not meet the entry requirements for a three-year course.
In the Department of Mathematics, you’ll consolidate and develop your mathematical skills in new as well as familiar areas.
After passing your Foundation Year, you can continue studying for a range of BSc degrees.
Depending on your performance, you can study at MMath level.
A-levels must include Mathematics, grade C.
Applicants with a tariff score of at least 112 points at least 15 Level 3 credits at Distinction
Applicants need to demonstrate a high level of Mathematics.
You will need to have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (or grade B).
A-levels or Pre-Us should include Mathematics at grade C/M3
Higher Levels must include Mathematics, with a grade of 4.
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade C or above (or grade 4).
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include C grades in the majority of subjects including grade C in Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-and-astronomy-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
“ On my foundation year, I gained the confidence and skills to study the subject I’m passionate about at a top uni .”
Interested in physics, theoretical physics or astrophysics but don’t meet the entry requirements for a degree?
A Foundation Year can help you get on to the course you want.
In the Department of Physics and Astronomy, you’ll be taught by the experts who are driving our research programmes .
You’ll have full access to our facilities and equipment.
You’ll be a part of our close community, including:
Once you’ve successfully completed your Foundation Year, you can choose from degrees in whichever branch of physics interests you the most – from astrophysics to theoretical physics.
If you’re a high-achiever in your Foundation Year, you also have the option of joining one of our integrated Masters courses (MPhys).
A-levels should normally include both Mathematics and Physics, with at least grade C in Mathematics.
Applications from A-level students without Mathematics and/or Physics will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
You may be asked to come to an interview and/or a mathematics assessment during an Applicant Visit Day as part of the selection process.
Higher Level subjects should normally include both Mathematics and Physics, with at least 4 in each.
Applications from students without Higher Mathematics and/or Physics will be considered on a individual basis.
We will be looking for evidence of competence in mathematics (and would expect at least a 5 in Standard Level if not taken to Higher level).
Grades CC in A-levels a Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
A-levels should normally include Mathematics, with at least grade C.
BTEC Extended National Diploma in Engineering with overall grade of MMM including no less then Distinction in Engineering Principles Unit
You will need to have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 5 (or grade B).
Highers should include Mathematics and Physics, with at least C grade in each.
A-levels should normally include both Mathematics and Physics, with at least C grade in each.
We would generally expect you to have studied two broadly scientific or quantitative subjects or have other evidence of high level competence in mathematics.
You will need evidence of a broad range of GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade C or above (or grade 4 in the new grading scale).
You must have a good level of Mathematics.
Physics is desirable, but we will consider students without it.
CDD - including grade C in Mathematics.
Grades CD in A-levels a Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
Find out more about the Department of Physics and Astronomy

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology-with-a-foundation-year-bsc:
By studying our Psychology with a Foundation Year degree, you develop a thorough overview of the subject through modules in health and clinical practice as well as organisational, social and applied psychology.
You build essential skills in critical analysis, developing arguments and self-expression, through a dedicated programme of support and development.
These skills will be valuable throughout your studies and into your career.
After completing the Foundation Year, you can choose to focus purely on psychology by continuing onto your Psychology BSc, or to study the subject with a minor such as Education, Business and Management or Neuroscience.
Grade C in A-level and MM in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
The Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma should be in Applied Science or Health and Social Care.
The BTEC should be in Applied Science or Health and Social Care.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics, with at least grade C (grade 4).
Grade D in A-level and MM in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/genetics-bsc:
Genetics BSc (Hons)
Genetics is having a profound impact on society.
Conservation, agriculture, biotechnology and medicine are all undergoing a revolution, made possible by scientific advances in contemporary genetics.
At Sussex, you’ll see how these advances are helping us better understand the genetic basis of human health.
You’ll also explore how technological solutions can transform the treatment of disease.
And how this could lead us to developing personalised medicine.
In the School of Life Sciences , you’ll join a friendly and supportive community of students and academics.
You’ll learn from experts specialising in fields such as cancer biology, neurological disorders and population ecology.
Your teaching is based on the latest research.
When you graduate, you’ll have the skills and knowledge for a wide range of science and science-related careers.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Computing, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Human Biology, Marine Science, Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths, Physics, Physical Education, Psychology, Sport Science, Statistics or Life & Health Sciences (Double Award only) at grade B.
Substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in science subjects.
A-level or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects must include at least one from A-level listing above.
Higher Levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geography, Mathematics, Physics or Psychology with at least grade 5.
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above (with at least grade B).
Highers must include one or two science subjects.
A-level needs to be one of the relevant science A-levels listed in the A-level section above.
Evidence of academic studies to a high level in either Biology, Chemistry and Physics with good results are essential.
Highers will need to include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Mathematics Psychology or Physics, with a grade H1.
View profile of Jon Baxter
View profile of Alessandro Bianchi
Professor of Genome Stability
View profile of Keith Caldecott
View profile of Tony Carr
Associate Professor in Chromosome Dynamics and Stability
View profile of Kok-Lung Chan
Professor of Biochemistry
View profile of Aidan Doherty
View profile of Helfrid Hochegger
Professor of Translational Research and Genome Stability
View profile of Timothy Humphrey
Research Professor, Molecular Genetics
View profile of Alan Lehmann
Emeritus
View profile of Jo Murray
View profile of Matt Neale
Professor Of Human Molecular Genetics
View profile of Mark O'Driscoll
View profile of Antony Oliver
Professor of Structural Biology
View profile of Laurence Pearl
View profile of Ulrich Rass
View profile of Evi Soutoglou
Our courses cover a wide genetics background.
You can specialise according to your interests:
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences: Genome Damage and Stability Centre

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/genetics-msci:
Genetics MSci
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Genetics research teams.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Computing, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Human Biology, Marine Science, Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths, Physics, Physical Education, Psychology, Sport Science, Statistics or Life & Health Sciences (Double Award only).
If you have two A-levels and Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, we would normally expect you to have grades AB in the two A-levels and M1 in the Pre-U.
A-level or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects must include at least one of the relevant science subjects listed in the A-level section above.
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above, at grade B.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-ba:
Geography BA (Hons)
Geography is all about understanding the world around you and how natural landscapes interact with human activities.
By studying this course, you’ll learn how to help solve real-world challenges like climate change, deforestation, natural disasters, and urban growth.
Whether you are studying migration and development, conflict, inequality, urban development or climate change adaptation, we’ll guide you through as you develop your own set of interests and expertise.
You’ll also have a choice of excellent local and global field-trip destinations, giving you the opportunity to take your learning out into the field.
Our student-led, prize-winning GeogSoc society, can help you settle into student life.
They organise social events, trips abroad, talks from guest speakers as well as providing peer support.
You’ll graduate with practical skills including research, numerical, analytical and resource-management.
This will enable you to pursue careers in fields like environmental research, international relations and development or policymaking.
Whichever you choose, you’ll have the flexibility to combine human and physical geography, or focus more on one over the other.
In Year 2, you can pick from an exciting range of locations: recent destinations include Los Angeles, China, Greece and Corsica .
Professor of Geography
View profile of Michael Collyer
View profile of Tahir Zaman
On our Geography BA, you develop research, numerical, analytical and resource-management skills.
This means you can go on to wide range of careers in the public, private and third sectors, including:
policy and campaign manager, Wildlife and Countryside Link
planning adviser, Environment Agency

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-bsc:
Geography BSc (Hons)
By studying this course you’ll learn how to help solve real-world challenges like climate change, deforestation, natural disasters, and urban growth.
You will model climate impacts as well as analysing data from coastal, desert and periglacial environments.
You'll also use drone and satellite technology to map land cover change and help to understand the carbon dynamics of forests.
We’ll guide you through every step of the course as you develop your own set of interests and expertise.
You’ll graduate with a range of practical skills.
These include use of Geographic Information Systems, analysing data and conducting fieldwork.
This will enable you to pursue careers in a range of fields including environmental protection, international development or policymaking.
In Year 2, you can pick from an exciting range of locations: recent destinations include the Mojave desert, China, Greece and Corsica .
Find out about the 2,000-year-old artefacts found by a Sussex student on a field trip to the Mojave desert.
On our Geography BSc, you develop strong research, numerical, technical (including GIS) and resource-management skills.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-and-international-relations-ba:
Geography and International Relations BA (Hons)
Studying Geography and International Relations will give you a comprehensive understanding of the complex relationships between people, places, politics, and the planet.
This course will enable you to analyse global issues from both spatial and political perspectives.
You'll gain the tools to tackle challenges like climate change, migration, conflict and globalisation in a holistic way.
You will learn from experts who influence global debates on topics such as poverty, inequality, climate change and migration.
You’ll also have access to our enhanced careers support.
You’ll have a choice of local and global field-trip destinations, giving you the opportunity to take your learning out into the field.
This includes skills in research, data analysis and critical thinking all essential for roles in government and non-government organisations.
There is also an equally exciting UK-based field trip .
Professor of Political Geography and Conflict
View profile of Clionadh Raleigh
View profile of Nadya Ali
Professor of Global Political Economy annd Sustainability
View profile of Andreas Antoniades
On our Geography and International Relations BA, you develop cultural awareness as well as research, numerical, analytical and resource-management skills.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography-with-a-language-ba:
Geography with a Language BA (Hons)
Whether you are studying migration and development, conflict, inequality, urban development or climate change adaptation, we’ll guide you as you develop your own set of interests and expertise.
Studying Geography with a language broadens your horizons and enhances your global career prospects.
You can choose one language from Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese and Spanish.
You'll also have the opportunity to study at a partner university abroad.
This combination of geography and language equips you with the critical knowledge and intercultural communication skills needed for diverse careers in international development, sustainability, environmental consultancy, and more.
During a Geography with a Language BA you develop research, communication, analytical, cultural awareness and resource-management skills.
Employers will also value your communication and language abilities.
This means you can go on to careers in sectors including international development and environmental conservation, or to graduate jobs in:
And while you're at Sussex, you can attend specialist careers events and workshops to help you look for graduate schemes and jobs in the UK and abroad.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history-ba:
History BA (Hons)
At Sussex, historical understanding becomes a tool for positive change.
From history of emotions, to environmental history, and to histories of rave, fashion and youth culture – you’ll shape your degree around the histories that matter to you.
You’ll discover how history was made and shaped by people of the Middle East, North Africa, Asia and the Caribbean as well as Britain, Europe and the Americas.
You’ll explore this not just by looking at leaders and politicians, but by studying the lives and actions of ordinary men and women.
This course isn’t about memorising facts and dates.
Instead, you’ll apply historical knowledge to real-world challenges.
These include urgent global issues such as reparations, migration and democracy, as well as specific projects with local heritage and charity partners.
Recent students have worked with London’s Museum of Youth Culture and Brighton’s Old Police Cells Museum .
Through our hands-on approach, you’ll gain the critical skills you’ll need for careers in media, policy, education, heritage, and beyond.
You’ll be able to gather evidence, analyse and research independently.
You’ll work creatively and collaboratively, building teamworking skills, as well as a capacity for empathy and imagination.
This degree is for you if you want to make a difference in the world.
History may be about the past – our graduates shape the future.
Megan: My favourite thing about my course is the opportunities that it presents you.
[Umm]...
I did a study abroad which I really loved, and I got so much support for doing...
and I also really loved the amount of speakers that people brought in, the amount of extra lectures you could go to with really cool people.
Learn...
a lot more about history that you wouldn’t necessarily in your course.
[Umm] And also just the way that it presents the opportunity to really get to know your classmates, go on trips, and just really bond and things like that.
It’s just been...
yeah, a really fun course.
With a History degree from Sussex, you gain analytical, communication, writing and research skills.
This, combined with digital media skills you’ll learn in workshops, means you can go into further study or sectors such as:
You can also attend career events where you can meet a range of graduate employers and get advice from our advisers.
Recent History graduates work as:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in History

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history-and-international-relations-ba:
History and International Relations BA (Hons)
Do you wish to understand the challenges facing us at a global level?
On this course, you’ll develop the skills and knowledge to become a world citizen with a global and critical perspective.
The course combines two distinctive yet complementary approaches to the question of developments at the global level:
Sussex has pioneered the historical study of international relations and developed new approaches to history, making it the ideal place for you to explore contemporary global issues.
25%: Lecture 50%: Seminar 20%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
On this course, you’ll refine your cultural awareness, and gain research as well as transferable skills.
As a graduate, you’re well prepared to explore careers in a wide range of fields:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history-and-philosophy-ba:
History and Philosophy BA (Hons)
With us, historical understanding and philosophical insight combine to inspire new ways of thinking.
On this course, you’ll enjoy innovative and diverse teaching, embracing global as well as western perspectives.
You’ll discover how history was made and shaped by people of the Middle East, North Africa, Asia and the Caribbean, as well as Britain, Europe and the Americas.
Using analytic and continental methodologies, you’ll tackle philosophical issues, and become adept at theoretical philosophy and its applications across society today.
You’ll join a community that is friendly, supportive, and committed to using history and philosophy for the greater benefit of society.
From day one, you’ll be guided in applying history and philosophy to real-world challenges.
You’ll work on specific projects with a variety of institutions and local partners.
You’ll learn to use academic knowledge in the context of public debate and societal change.
This could include working in a student team to address a live brief from one of our partner organisations – a valuable real-world experience to add to your CV.
Through this hands-on approach, you’ll develop essential strengths in analysis, communication, collaboration, empathy and imagination.
You’ll learn to communicate compelling historical narratives in a range of formats.
This could include documentaries, podcasts and digital media.
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared for careers in media, policy, education, heritage and beyond.
George: My favourite thing about my course is the interdisciplinary approach that it allows me to take.
So, I study History and Philosophy, and I feel like that gives me a really nuanced perspective on both the courses I’m taking, and sort of aids my perspective on both the...
content I’m covering in History and Philosophy.
So it makes...
it allows me to have ideas that bounce off of each other, [uhh] in both the areas.
With a History and Philosophy degree, you will gain analytical, communication, writing and research skills.
This means you could go on to further study or sectors such as:
Our recent graduates have gone on to work across the globe in:
Other have become museum curators, television writers, entrepreneurs and chief executive officers.
(Media, Arts and Humanities careers database)
You can also attend career events where you can meet graduate employers.
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in History .
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Philosophy .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history-and-politics-ba:
History and Politics BA (Hons)
Does history repeat itself?
What are the legacies of empire, war and revolution in today’s world?
Should we call the current wave of populist politicians fascist?
Studying history and politics at Sussex allows you to consider these pressing questions as well as gaining real-world experience.
On this course, you’ll explore how a global historical approach helps us understand and assess the political present.
You’ll learn from leading researchers who shape our thinking about the past and present.
Our scholars advise governments on political decisions for the future.
You can build practical experience through:
Outside the classroom, there are even more ways to get involved.
The student-run History Society and Politics and Debating Society give you the chance to publish your own journal and question leading politicians like Green Party MP Siân Berry and former Conservative MP Rory Stewart.
You can also hear from Sussex alumni who have gone on to work in journalism, NGOs, and the technology sector.
Other opportunities include exciting fieldtrips.
Options include visiting Berlin where you can meet politicians in the German Bundestag and see politics in action.
Overall result of at least 80%.
Bespoke support is built into our history and politics degree.
Career specialists will help you maximise your potential every step of the way.
Working with partners and alumni, we run training sessions on the skills that impress employers, from effective presentation to learning from feedback.
Equipped with a powerful combination of historical and political knowledge and skills in research, analysis and communication, our graduates stand out in the job market.
Our history and politics degree opens doors to a wide range of exciting and impactful careers in museum curation, policy-making, education, media and business, among others.
Recent politics and history graduates have gone on to jobs such as:
(Faculty of Media, Arts and Humanities careers databases )

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history-and-sociology-ba:
History and Sociology BA (Hons)
By combining history and sociology, you'll study central questions about society, and explore how they apply to key moments in time.
At Sussex, you engage directly with artefacts of international interest in relation to social history.
The Mass Observations archive, with journal entries that give a snap-shot of everyday life in the 1940s, is housed at The Keep, a state-of-the-art archive conservation building located next to our campus.
You learn from leading experts in both fields.
Our research influences ground-breaking debate and attracts a range of specialists to campus.
With a History and Sociology degree, you gain analytical, communication, writing and research skills.
This means you can go into sectors such as:
We also offer sessions to help you apply for graduate schemes and jobs.
Recent events have included workshops on:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-relations-ba:
International Relations BA (Hons)
How is humanity organised at the world level, and where does power really lie?
When and why did the modern global international system come into being?
What are the key ideas people have used to try and understand big international issues such as war and peace, and wealth and poverty?
And how can we use these ideas to address the urgent challenges – climate change, human rights, terrorism and international inequality – facing the world today?
At Sussex, we pioneer new critical approaches to these questions.
Because we are one of the largest dedicated International Relations departments in the world, we have a wide range of expertise .
And that gives you plenty of choice in how you shape your degree.
Develop communication, analytical and cultural awareness skills with an International Relations degree.
These skills mean you could go into graduate jobs at multinational companies, and national and international organisations such as:
You also benefit from careers-based events where you can meet employers and find out more about graduate jobs in the UK and abroad.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-relations-and-sociology-ba:
International Relations and Sociology BA (Hons)
You’ll be based in one of the world’s largest dedicated International Relations departments.
We pioneer new critical approaches to studying and tackling the major challenges facing our world today.
You’ll learn from experts driving debates and influencing policy on topics such as conflict and war, migration, human rights, social inequalities, racism, health, social exclusion, financial instability and climate change.
You’ll benefit from the vibrant and interdisciplinary environments in the School of Global Studies and the School of Law, Politics and Sociology.
Develop communication, analytical and critical thinking skills with an International Relations and Sociology degree.
These skills mean you could go into graduate jobs within health and social welfare, and work for employers such as:
You'll also benefit from career events where you can meet employers, find out more about UK and international jobs, as well as graduate jobs, and get advice on applying for graduate schemes and preparing for assessment centres.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/international-relations-with-a-language-ba:
International Relations with a Language BA (Hons)
Language skills are a great asset to have for careers in international relations and international organisations.
This course allows you to enhance your language skills alongside gaining an understanding of the role of states, international organisations and non-state actors in our global world.
Learn from experts whose research is making a difference to communities across the world – from human rights and climate change, to food crises and health pandemics.
You also get real-world exposure to international relations, from regular events with practitioner speakers.
Vincent: My favourite thing of the course is that I’m able to meet different people from different backgrounds and nationalities and to collaborate with them, to talk about different...
topics which is happening in the world right now.
And...
[uhh]...
about my...
[umm] my...
selective module, I’m able to like...
[umm] learn another language and, [umm] it also really broadened my horizons.
it’s also like [umm] ...
being kind of like a pathway for me to...
have more options.
Develop communication, language and cultural awareness skills through an International Relations with a Language degree.
These skills mean you could go into graduate jobs at multinational companies, national and international organisations, or work in translation or interpreting.
You can also work for employers such as:
You will also benefit from careers-based events where you can meet employers and find out more about graduate jobs in the UK and abroad.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-with-international-relations-llb:
Law with International Relations LLB (Hons)
On this course, you’ll study:
You’re taught by research-active faculty and study theoretical and practical aspects of law.
We also have links with leading law firms that sponsor our student competitions in national and international mooting, criminal advocacy, client interviewing, negotiation, mediation and legal debating .
Our supportive alumni are also happy to provide career advice for current students.
“ On your LLB, you’ll engage with the complexities and richness of the law.
This will shape your practical legal mind and prepare you for a world beyond your legal studies .”
You can also choose to use your excellent communication skills in fields such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics-and-international-relations-ba:
Politics and International Relations BA (Hons)
Much is at stake in global politics today.
War has returned to Europe.
Climate change calls for urgent action, but nothing seems to happen.
Inequality divides societies and the international sphere.
Studying politics and international relations at Sussex allows you to consider these pressing questions as well as gaining real-world experience.
You'll learn new and critical ideas used to understand international issues, how governments make decisions and how we can hold those in power accountable.
You'll gain the knowledge and practical skills to help address the challenges the world is facing.
Your tutors aren’t just experts in their fields, they’re shaping public policy and influencing NGOs and governments.
The student-run Politics and Debating Society will give you the chance to question leading politicians like Green Party MP Siân Berry.
And at the IR Society you could hear what it is like to be a student intern with Ukraine’s foreign ministry during the war.
Other opportunities include visiting Berlin where you can meet politicians in the German Bundestag and see politics in action..
We organise trips to Germany and France so you can learn more about the current political scene and meet with politicians and academics there.
If you study German politics, you can go on a trip to Berlin to visit the German parliament for discussions with politicians from all major parties.
You also visit other prominent historical landmarks such as the Holocaust Memorial, Checkpoint Charlie and the Berlin Wall.
Bespoke support is built into our Politics and Philosophy degree.
Equipped with a powerful combination of specialist knowledge and skills in research, analysis and communication, our graduates stand out in the job market.
The degree opens doors to a wide range of exciting and impactful careers in government, policy research, education, journalism, media and business, in the UK and internationally.
Recent politics and international relations graduates have gone on to jobs such as:
(Department of Politics careers database )
Find out more about the Department of Politics

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/media-and-journalism-ba:
Media and Journalism BA (Hons)
In our interconnected digital world – where truth, democracy and public trust are increasingly under technological and political threat – journalism and media matter more than ever.
This course empowers you to think critically and act ethically in response to the challenges facing media today, from misinformation and global crises to questions of social justice and community voice.
You’ll explore the power of storytelling across platforms.
And you’ll develop the resilience and adaptability to shape the future of fact-based communication in your career.
At Sussex, you’ll join a progressive and inclusive media and journalism community.
We bring together academic excellence, ethical practice and industry engagement.
Whether you want to report, create, strategise or shape the future of media, we’ll equip you with the tools and experience you need to succeed.
learn in specialist facilities , including purpose-built media labs, a news studio and our podcasting studio
build practical expertise in video and audio journalism, podcasting, news and features writing, and digital content creation
develop core skills in industry-aligned multimedia storytelling
work with tools such as Adobe Creative Suite to produce professional-grade work
create journalism and media responding to real-world ethical issues such as climate change and public communication in the age of AI
gain real-world experience responding to an industry brief in your final-year project.
You’ll also benefit from guest lectures, masterclasses and strong alumni networks, connecting you with professionals across media sectors.
When you graduate, you’ll have adaptable skills rooted in ethical practice and critical awareness.
You’ll be well prepared for a wide range of careers in journalism, content creation, and the wider media and creative industries.
You’ll also have the skills and confidence to thrive as a freelancer or media entrepreneur.
Distinction overall in a relevant subject.
This is the year in which you become a scholar and practitioner.
Your core modules give you a solid grounding and prepare you to explore the topics that interest you most .
Year 2 is all about flexibility and thinking ahead.
Focus on what interests you most when you choose from our exciting range of options .
This is the year in which you become an expert and a professional.
Year 3 is all about specialising in what interests you most and producing industry-facing work.
View profile of Sally Xiaojin Chen
Associate Professor Journalism
View profile of Rachael Duncan
Emeritus Reader in Media & Film Studies
View profile of Janice Winship
You’ll be well equipped for a range of careers, particularly in the rapidly developing creative industries market but also in a variety of media.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-llb:
Law LLB (Hons)
“ My degree is challenging and engaging, and the range of modules makes for flexible study that you can tailor .”
Developing a global perspective is crucial in today’s interconnected world.
By understanding diverse legal frameworks, you can make a significant impact on people’s lives.
On this LLB, you'll gain a comprehensive foundation in English law, while also exploring International, European, and Canadian legal systems.
You’ll learn from research-active faculty and join a vibrant student community with a dynamic law society.
You may also have the opportunity to gain hands-on experience through the Sussex Law Clinics .
By providing supervised legal advice to the public, you’ll experience law in action and be able to see how the law can make a tangible difference to people's lives.
We have strong ties with leading law firms that enable us to offer exciting opportunities such as competitions in national and international mooting, criminal advocacy, negotiation, and mediation.
Studying law at Sussex will enhance your ability to analyse, present arguments and persuade others, preparing you for a variety of careers - from practising law to roles in government, NGOs, or corporate sectors.
Our engaged alumni network offers career support, helping you navigate your professional journey.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-graduate-entry-llb:
Law (Graduate Entry) LLB (Hons)
“ Law (Graduate Entry) is a well established and well taught course, one I would highly recommend to all those passionate about the law .”
Graduates of any discipline can take this course to fast-track their studies and gain an LLB in two years.
You’ll gain a solid grounding in the English legal system and explore international, European and Canadian law as part of the course.
You’ll cover theoretical and practical aspects of law, and benefit from:
Studying law develops your skills of analysis, argument and persuasion, equipping you for a variety of careers.
And our supportive group of alumni are happy to provide career advice for current students.
You must have a second-class undergraduate honours degree (or equivalent).
Equivalent degrees would include Canadian Bachelors degree with CGPA of at least 3.0 (or a grade B weighted average).
View profile of Ashleigh Keall

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-with-a-language-llb:
Law with a Language LLB (Hons)
You’ll gain a solid grounding in English law as well as exploring international, European and Canadian law.
You can choose one language from Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese or Spanish.
You also cover:
You’re taught by research-active faculty, and join a vibrant community with an active student law body.
Our supportive group of alumni are happy to provide career advice for current students.
On this course, you’ll select options specific to your chosen language.
The list of options below includes all available languages.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law-with-politics-llb:
Law with Politics LLB (Hons)
Study for a qualifying law degree while gaining an insight into how the law works in different political systems.
You’ll cover core legal modules and learn from experts who are influencing debates on topics from political corruption to foreign policy analysis.
Stephen Bush, the award-winning journalist and political editor of the New Statesman , is our Political Writer in Residence.
In this role, he’ll deliver a number of writing workshops for first-year Politics students.
This gives you the opportunity to develop your skills as a political writer and to become an outstanding political communicator.
Stephen will also provide personalised feedback on student blogs.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/liberal-arts-ba:
Liberal Arts BA (Hons)
“ I chose the Liberal Arts degree at Sussex because when I enquired about the different modules, the staff seemed flexible and open to student suggestions .”
Liberal Arts at Sussex is an evolution of the arts, humanities and social sciences into a new kind of degree.
If you want a hands-on degree that will help you make a difference in the world, this course is for you.
You'll engage with real-life challenges, gain valuable life skills and experience with industrial partners and within the community.
On this course you'll look for solutions to complex questions and global challenges, thinking across disciplinary boundaries.
How can we spot fake news?
What is the future of democracy?
How do we tackle climate change?
Our goal is to empower the next generation of communicators, creators and culture-shapers.
This courses has been devised in partnership with our Advisory Board of activist organisations, think-tanks, NGOs, broadcasters, museums, galleries and communications companies.
You'll be taught by experts from a wide range of subject areas.
You’ll develop academic skills, including essay writing and research, alongside gaining valuable practical experience.
You'll also have the opportunity to take a term abroad with a Liberal Arts college in Japan, the US, Thailand, or the Netherlands, a Year Abroad, or do an industrial placement for a year.
You’ll graduate with a multitude of passions, experiences, interests, and skills.
Exploring different disciplines in three electives – two in Year 1 and one in Year 2 – helps enrich your learning experience .
Devised in partnership with our advisory board of activist organisations, think-tanks, NGOs, broadcasters, museums, galleries and communications companies, this degree expands your learning by teaching critical practice:
Liberal Arts at Sussex is about engaging with the world in smart and meaningful ways.
Learning a language is a great way to achieve this goal – it’ll help you connect with ideas and cultures different to your own.
In Years 1 and 2, you’ll have the opportunity to take language options in:
View profile of Ben Highmore
The BA has been designed with input from sector-leading experts across a range of professions.
Devised in partnership with our Advisory Board of activist organisations, think-tanks, NGOs, broadcasters, museums, galleries, and communications companies, this degree will make you a real asset to employers and society.
You’ll develop:
As a Sussex Liberal Arts graduate you’ll have the skills and knowledge needed to make a positive and rewarding contribution to the world.
You’ll be well prepared for leading and transformative roles across fields including:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology-with-a-language-ba:
Sociology with a Language BA (Hons)
If you want to develop your sociology knowledge and learn a language, this is the course for you.
Study ing Sociology helps you to think critically about the social worlds we live in.
At Sussex, you’re taught by expert researchers on diverse topics such as gender inequalities, identity, health care and globalisation.
Designing and carrying out your own research projects means that you develop practical and analytical skills surrounding research methodology.
Get the training and knowledge for graduate careers in fields such as welfare, social services, education and teaching, and media and publishing.
You’ll gain writing, speaking and reading skills in your target language.
You also gain experience of critical thinking and data analysis, meaning you can also go into research and policy-related roles in the UK or abroad.
To help you apply for graduate schemes and jobs in the public, private, and voluntary sectors, you can attend specialist career workshops and sessions throughout your degree.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/data-science-bsc:
Data Science BSc (Hons)
Our society is built on data.
There’s an increasing demand for people with skills in data analysis, programming and statistics.
This course is for you if you want to become proficient in handling data as well as using computational and statistical methods to solve real-world data-intensive problems.
Sussex is home to Sussex Artificial Intelligence, one of our Centres of Excellence , and the Data-Intensive Science Centre (DISCUS) .
You’ll learn from experts:
During your studies, you’ll explore the relationship between modern data science, statistics, and the computational techniques that drive data analysis and modelling.
An academic adviser will guide you throughout your degree.
You’ll have opportunities to engage with potential employers and to apply for a placement to gain experience working in industry.
When you graduate, you’ll have the skills, knowledge and confidence to progress into roles such as data analyst, data engineer, business data analyst, database administrator, data scientist and software engineer.
ABB, including grade B in Mathematics.
The first year of study will introduce you to the basics of mathematics and programming.
Teaching methods typically include lectures and small-group workshops.
Programming-based modules also incorporate sessions in computer laboratories .
81%: Lecture 10%: Seminar 9%: Practical
Assessment methods typically include end-of-term examinations and coursework such as problem sheets, online quizzes and programming exercises.
13%: Coursework 87%: Examination
This breaks down into about 300 hours of contact time and about 900 hours of independent study.
In Year 2, you’ll consolidate your programming skills while adding statistics.
70%: Lecture 18%: Seminar 12%: Practical
62%: Coursework 38%: Examination
In Year 3, you’ll continue your study of statistics and data science, and choose topics that interest you most from a range of options.
You’ll also pursue an individual research project, exploring a topic of your choice within Data Science .
47%: Lecture 13%: Seminar 15%: Practical 25%: One-to-one
There’s also a written dissertation and presentation.
47%: Coursework 25%: Examination 4%: Practical 24%: Written assessment
This breaks down into about 230 hours of contact time and about 970 hours of independent study.
View profile of James Bennett
Reader in Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computation
View profile of Marianna Cerasuolo
View profile of Chris Hadjichrysanthou
Assistant Professor in Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computation
View profile of Philip Herbert
View profile of Temitayo Olugbade
View profile of James Van Yperen
During your degree, you have the support of an academic adviser.
When you graduate, you’ll have the skills, knowledge and confidence to start your career in a wide range of roles, including:
You’ll also be well prepared for further study, such as a Masters degree.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/data-science-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Data Science (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
This course is for you if you want to become proficient in handling data, using computational and statistical methods to solve real-world data-intensive problems.
Your teaching is based on our leading research.
During your studies, you’ll explore the relationship between modern data science, statistics, and the computational techniques that drive data analysis and modelling You’ll:
You’ll have opportunities to engage with potential employers and to apply for an industrial placement.
The optional year in industry is a great opportunity for you to gain real-world experience of working in the data science sector and related fields.
Either your A-levels or Principal Subjects must include Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-bsc:
Mathematics BSc (Hons)
How can mathematics help us understand the dynamics of infectious diseases?
Or how an idea circulates on social media?
Or the behaviour of queues?
We’ll show you how mathematics solves real-world problems.
You’ll work with experts whose research is having an impact – from forecasting local outbreaks of COVID, to predicting floods.
In your first year, you’ll explore the basics of mathematics.
This includes analysis and linear algebra, as well as an introduction to computational mathematics.
In your second year, you’ll add probability and statistics.
In your final year, you then build on your existing knowledge and discover new aspects of the subject, including:
This course is flexible, so you can focus on what fascinates you while gaining a strong foundation in core mathematics.
Our Department is a close-knit community, and you’ll get to know your lecturers on an individual basis.
Academic advisers support you every step of the way and you’ll have lots of opportunities to engage with potential employers.
You’ll also have a dedicated careers advisor.
During your studies, you’ll develop the knowledge and skills employers want.
You’ll gain experience in analysing large data sets, problem solving, coding, and team working.
Our graduates have gone to work in roles such as:
We also offer this course as a four-year MMath , or as a four-year MMath with research placements .
Mariia: So far my experience was very fulfilled with different research opportunities, networking sessions, and the University encouraged us a lot to pursue further studies and research in different areas, not only mathematics.
So we have a lot of open lectures and conferences, and I love this about Sussex, and it really helps us to connect with people, connect with students with similar interests and yeah, it’s just been an amazing time and I really feel grateful to be able to study and learn and grow in such a supportive environment.
78%: Lecture 5%: Seminar 17%: Practical
21%: Coursework 79%: Examination
In Year 2, you’ll continue with mathematical foundations, and add probability and statistics.
91%: Lecture 4%: Seminar 5%: Practical
72%: Lecture 21%: Seminar 7%: Practical
17%: Coursework 59%: Examination 1%: Practical 23%: Written assessment
View profile of Konstantin Blyuss
View profile of Konstantinos Koumatos
Our graduates go onto a range of careers in finance and accounting, digital media, teaching, engineering and healthcare.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-mmath:
Mathematics MMath
In your first year, you learn how to derive and prove fundamental results in mathematics.
You then build on your existing knowledge and discover new aspects of the subject including:
During integrated Masters year, you’ll develop new mathematical skills and knowledge – particularly relevant if you’re interested in going on to a research career, or into specialised fields including data science, finance or mathematical modelling .
We also offer this course with research placements , or as a three-year BSc .
You’ll also choose options from a range of mathematical subjects.
95%: Lecture 5%: Practical
10%: Coursework 44%: Examination 6%: Practical 40%: Written assessment

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-research-placement-mmath:
Mathematics (research placement) MMath
In your third and fourth year, you then build on your existing knowledge and discover new aspects of the subject including:
You also explore a topic of your choice in the MMath project in your final year.
We also offer this course without research placements , or as a three-year BSc .
A-levels must include both Mathematics and Further Mathematics, with grade A* in one and grade A in the other.
D3 M1 M1
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade grade A at A-level and, M1 and D3 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades AA at A-level and D3 in Pre-U.
You must have either Mathematics at A-level, with at least grade A or Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject at D3 and Further Mathematics.
Higher Levels must include Mathematics, with a grade of 7.
Grades AA in A-levels plus Distinction* in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
A-levels must include both Mathematics and Further Mathematics.
You will also need an Advanced Higher in Mathematics (grade A).
Overall result of 83%
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics to the highest level is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.5).
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and 95% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 2 or better.
Reifeprüfung or Matura with an overall result of 1.6  or better for first-year entry.
Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) or Studentereksamen with an overall average of 10 on the new grading scale.
French Baccalauréat with an overall final result of at least 15/20.
German Abitur with an overall result of 1.6 or better.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 5, 5, 5 from three subjects including two electives.
Italian Diploma Di Maturità or Diploma Pass Di Esame Di Stato with a final Diploma mark of  90/100.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects including Mathematics in the 85th percentile.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 9 including a score of 8 in Mathematics
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average grade of 1.2 from 4 subjects including high scores in Mathematics.
Spanish Título de Bachillerato (LOGSE) with an overall average result of 8.5.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A grades in the majority of subjects
Dylan: My favourite thing about the course would be the friendly, relaxed environment in the Maths Department, and how easy it is to just go up and ask any questions to any of the lecturers in their offices.
They’re always happy to help, you can just come along at any time really.
Each summer throughout your degree you can apply to do a research placement based at Sussex.
Research in the Department of Mathematics plays an important role in the current development of areas as diverse as:
On your research placement, you work on cutting-edge projects that contribute to the work of the research group you’re placed with.
These are a great way to gain practical experience of Mathematics research, and receive unique training for your future career.
You’ll also receive funding to cover your living expenses during any placements you take.
AAA (AA in Mathematics and Further Mathematics)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-data-science-bsc:
Mathematics with Data Science BSc (Hons)
Machine learning and data science are all around us.
The need for people who can collate and interpret complex data has never been greater.
This course will give you the skills to solve data-intensive problems.
You’ll explore the relationships between mathematics, data and statistics and gain a thorough grounding in theories and techniques.
You’ll apply mathematical algorithms for the analysis, interpretation and visualisation of large data-sets, using real-world data.
In your mathematics modules you’ll learn the theory that forms the basis of modern data science.
You’ll put this theory into practice in your data science modules.
Our faculty are experts in this exciting field.
Their research is having significant impact in areas such as:
You’ll develop your analytical and modelling skills, using industry-standard software such as Python and R.
By graduation you’ll have gained the skills, and confidence, to become a capable quantitative scientist.
Career options include roles in:
Our Department is a close-knit community.
You’ll get to know your lecturers and their dedication and support will help you get the most from your degree.
Academic advisers also support you every step of the way and you’ll have lots of opportunities to engage with potential employers.
ABB - including grade A in Mathematics
In your first year, you’ll explore the basics of mathematics and data science.
69%: Lecture 8%: Seminar 23%: Practical
In Year 2, you’ll continue exploring foundations in mathematics.
And you’ll add probability and statistics, computing and machine learning.
76%: Lecture 13%: Seminar 11%: Practical
38%: Coursework 62%: Examination
17%: Coursework 68%: Examination 1%: Practical 14%: Written assessment
This course will prepare you to go into a range of careers in areas such as:
BCC - including grade B in Mathematics

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics-with-data-science-mmath:
Mathematics with Data Science MMath
This integrated Masters course will give you the skills to solve data-intensive problems.
It is particularly relevant if you are interested in a research career.
All modules are based on the latest research.
You’ll develop analytical and modelling skills, using industry-standard software such as Python and R.
During your fourth year you’ll gain further skills and apply them to an advanced research project.
By graduation you’ll have necessary skills to become a capable quantitative scientist.
You’ll be part of a close-knit, friendly department.
Our lecturers take the time to get to know you.
They operate an open-door policy, so you’ll always find support if you need it.
We also offer this course as a three-year BSc without the integrated Masters year.
83%: Lecture 12%: Seminar 5%: Practical
You’ll also choose options from a range of mathematical and data science modules.
81%: Lecture 4%: Seminar 15%: Practical
24%: Coursework 30%: Examination 6%: Practical 40%: Written assessment

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/product-design-ba:
Product Design BA (Hons)
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 4 (grade C) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 4 (grade C) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design through your Access you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade 4 (grade C) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade 6 (grade B).
You will need Scottish National 5 in Mathematics at grade C.
You must have GCSE (or equivalent) Mathematics with at least grade C (grade 4) and, if you are not offering Art or a Design subject at A-level you must also have GCSE Art or Design Technology at grade B (grade 6).

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/product-design-with-an-industrial-placement-year-ba:
Product Design (with an industrial placement year) BA (Hons)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology-with-media-studies-ba:
Sociology with Media Studies BA (Hons)
Explore the nature of the social worlds we live in and the role of the media in them.
You’ll learn from experts who influence debates on topics ranging from gender inequality to the role of media in our cultural and social worlds.
You’ll explore sociological and media theories, and develop research skills.
Outside the classroom, you’ll gain hands-on experience through research placements and student media projects.
Studying Sociology and Media Studies you will gain practical, communication, critical thinking and analytical skills.
You’ll also develop media awareness.
Our graduates work in government, health, public and human relations, journalism and business.
You’ll also be prepared for jobs in media and communications.
This includes working:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medical-neuroscience-bsc:
Medical Neuroscience BSc (Hons)
Epilepsy, strokes and schizophrenia – what causes these conditions, and what can we do to prevent or alleviate them?
On this course, you’ll study the structure and function of the human brain and nervous system.
You’ll learn to apply this knowledge to understand and treat neurological disorders.
In seminar sessions and hands-on lab work, you’ll be trained in modern experimental techniques.
You’ll also gain computing, programming, data-analysis and communication skills.
Our experts specialise in areas ranging from medicine and neuroanatomy, to genes and development.
Our research underpins your teaching.
Sussex was the first university in the UK to offer a degree in neurobiology.
And we’re currently the only place to offer an undergraduate course in Medical Neuroscience in the UK.
You’ll benefit from our close connections with Brighton & Sussex Medical School , based on campus.
Many Medical Neuroscience students aim to specialise in a branch of Medicine.
Many other careers are also open to you, in areas including:
A-levels must include Biology (with at least grade B).
Substantial amounts of Level 3 credit in Biology related science subjects.
A-levels or Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects must include Biology.
Where you are taking a science subject that has the separate science practical assessment, the University would normally expect a pass.
If students are not able to take the science practical assessment, applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Higher Levels must include Biology with a grade of 5.
A-level must be in Biology at grade B.
If you have taken a science A-level you will also normally need to pass the separate science practical assessment in a science subject.
Highers must include Biology.
Ideally, you will have Biology at Advanced Higher.
ABB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels.
Evidence of academic studies in Biology to a high level and with good results (at least a score of 8).
from University of Sussex on Vimeo.
Dannielle: My favourite thing about my course would have to be the guaranteed interview scheme that is offered with the Brighton and Sussex Medical School.
It allows current students enrolled in the degree to have the option to have an interview ready for them when they want to apply, or if they want to apply to Medicine.
Recent Life Sciences students have gone on placements:
Lecturer in Neuroscience
View profile of Doran Amos
Professor of Molecular Neuroscience
View profile of Majid Hafezparast
View profile of George Kemenes
View profile of Ildiko Kemenes
View profile of Miguel Maravall Rodriguez
Associate Professor in Neuroscience
View profile of Ruth Murrell-Lagnado
View profile of Andrew Penn
Sir Henry Dale Senior Research Fellow Group Leader
View profile of Sylvia Schroeder
Professor Of Neuroscience
View profile of Kevin Staras
Assistant Professor in Neuroscience
View profile of Alexander Stuart
View profile of Camilla Tornoe
Our modules help you develop transferable skills in time management, communication and analysis.
You gain laboratory skills and improve your problem-solving, independent thinking and teamwork abilities.
You can go on to work in fields such as:
Explore the careers you might be interested in after studying for a degree in Neuroscience
BCC, including grade B in Biology
Find out more about the School of Life Sciences: Neuroscience

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medical-neuroscience-msci:
Medical Neuroscience MSci
You’ll spend a semester working on an individual research project in one of our Neuroscience research teams.
A-levels must include Biology grade B.
Substantial amounts of Level 3 credits in biology related science subjects.
A-level must be in Biology, with at least grade B.
A-levels must include Biology (at least grade B).

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medicine-bmbs:
Our course
Our five-year medical degree, awarded jointly by the Universities of Brighton and Sussex, leads to the qualification of Bachelor of Medicine Bachelor of Surgery (BM BS).
Our course has been approved by the GMC under its Quality Assurance of Basic Medical Education (QABME) processes and both the universities of Brighton and Sussex are listed in the UK Medical Act as joint providers of a primary medical qualification.
Our course has been designed to help you become a highly competent; strongly motivated doctor, committed to the highest standards of clinical practice, professionalism and patient care.
By the time you graduate, you will have developed the knowledge and key personal skills and attitudes necessary to pursue a successful medical career.
At BSMS, we aim to help our students develop into the best doctors they can be, working in a patient-centred, social-responsible way.
Learn more about some of our approaches to teaching that aim to improve understanding of inequalities experienced by a range of people and communities.
VISIT OUR INEQUALITIES TEACHING WEB PAGE >
Your academic and clinical studies will primarily be based at the Universities of Brighton and Sussex Falmer campuses, using purpose-built teaching facilities including a modern anatomy laboratory, small and large group teaching spaces and clinical science laboratories.
READ MORE about years 1 and 2 >
The teaching year is extended and students will have ward-based placements at the Royal Sussex County Hospital and at regional partner hospitals.
Find out more about Years 3 and 4 >
Year 5 provides intense clinical and professional preparation for your foundation years.
Throughout the year, you will develop your clinical skills through direct patient contact on clinical placements and by using clinical skills laboratories and simulators.
Central to your study will be the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of patients in these different areas of practice.
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT YEAR 5 >
The intercalated degree is an optional addition to a medical degree.
You may choose to undertake an intercalated degree between Years 3 and 4, allowing you to expand your horizons, study a new topic in depth, and work or study for a year at BSMS or another university.
Please note, intercalation numbers are capped at 40% of the total cohort, with priority given to those without a prior degree.
Read more about our intercalated courses >
BSMS has an integrated curriculum designed to develop your knowledge, academic and clinical skills, and instil a professional approach throughout the degree; the variety of assessment methods used reflects this.
Find out more about assessments >
Find out the different term dates for each year group.
Find out term dates >
Staff intranet (SharePoint)
Accessibility
Cookies information
Privacy policy

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/neuroscience-bsc:
Neuroscience BSc (Hons)
From curing degenerative diseases, to inventing the next generation of AI, there’s so much yet to discover in the field of neuroscience.
At Sussex, you’ll explore the latest discoveries about the brain and nervous system.
You’ll join a friendly and supportive community of students and academics in the School of Life Sciences .
Our teaching will inspire you, with topics including:
From Year 1 you’ll be in the lab, gaining practical hands-on experience.
You’ll carry out interactive neuroscience experiments and take part in workshops.
You’ll also develop computing, programming, data analysis and communication skills.
Building on that ground-breaking step, the wider Sussex Neuroscience community now represents over 50 different research groups.
They work across a broad spectrum of specialisms, from vision and consciousness, to AI and behaviour.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics at grade B.
If you are taking a science subject that has the separate science practical assessment, we would normally expect a pass.
You will need substantial amounts of Level 3 credit in at least one science subject or to have taken a science A-level alongside the Access course.
You must have a Higher Level in at least one of Biology, Chemistry, Maths or Physics, with at least grade 5.
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above (at grade B).
A-levels need to be one of the relevant sciences listed in the A-level section above with grade B.
Highers must include at least one science subject, with at least grade B.
Ideally, you will have one of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics as an Advanced Higher.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics (at grade B).
Evidence of academic studies in at least one science subject to a high level and with good results is essential.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalauréat with good results (12/20) in at least one science subject.
Evidence of academic studies in at least one science subjects with good results (12/15) is essential.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Psychology with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Psychology with an overall score of 17.
Evidence of academic studies in at least one science subject to a high level with good results is essential.
Highers will need to include at least one science subject from Biology, Chemistry, Physics and/or Psychology.
You must have a good level of Mathematics and English.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 75th percentile including at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Psychology.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average between 8.0 and 8.5 including a score of 8 from at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Psychology.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.8 from 4 subjects including at least one from Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include B grades in the majority of subjects and to include grade B in either Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Psychology.
Emily: My favourite thing about Neuroscience is how interactive the lecturers are and how much they love their subject.
It really shows through their lectures and I really enjoy that.
View profile of Thomas Baden

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/neuroscience-msci:
Neuroscience MSci
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
Pass Diploma with at least 39 level 3 credits at Merit or above including 24-27 credits at Distinction
D3, D3 and M2 in the Pre-U
A-level or Cambridge Pre-Us must include at least one of the relevant science subjects listed in the A-level section above.
AAABB-AABBB
AAB-ABB from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels.
A-levels must include at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics  with a score of 19 or the Pan Hellenic in at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Psychology with an overall score of 17.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher Level) at H1,H1,H2,H2,H2 - H1,H1,H2,H2,H3
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects in the 80th percentile including at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of 8.7 including a score of 8 from at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including at least one from Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg/Högskoleförberedande Examen with a total of 2,500 credits to include A and B grades in the majority of subjects including a grade B in either Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or Physics.
Grade B in A-level and Disinction, Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology-with-clinical-approaches-bsc:
Psychology with Clinical Approaches BSc (Hons)
Study in one of the UK’s largest schools of psychology while gaining valuable knowledge of specific clinical conditions, from autism to schizophrenia .
Emma: My favourite thing about my course is that I get to look at how different areas of psychology interplay with each other [umm] and, with my minor being in clinical as well, I get to look at interventions for people that have mental health problems, which I found really interesting.
And the lecturers managed to really keep it engaging because there’s a breadth of different types of assessments that you do.
So, you have your essay and your dissertation, but I also had a weekly log for one of my recent modules to keep me engaged with the content every week, and I found that really interesting.
You’ll develop essential skills for careers in professional psychology or research, including:
You can use the skills you’ve learned in clinical approaches to work in fields including autism, schizophrenia and other mental health conditions.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/music-ba:
Music BA (Hons)
With us, you’ll have the opportunity to go beyond the usual bounds of a Music degree.
Guided by our experts, you’ll find new sounds, experiment with new ideas, adapt to diverse creative briefs, build your network and design your own projects.
This could include working as a touring and recording artist, performer, games music composer, beatmaker, designer/maker, event promotor, music therapist, teacher or writer.
Check out a showcase of our Music students’ work
Grade B in A-level and Distinction, Merit in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Diploma.
UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma should be in Music Performance and Production with a grade of Merit.
Tommy: My favourite thing about my course is that it’s so broad.
Like...
I started at Sussex, and I didn’t really know what I wanted to get from my course, and then...
as it sort of progressed, I learned what I wanted to be doing with my course, and then with a career afterwards.
So, you kind of really get the chance to...
hone in on your strengths.
Year 1 introduces you to musicianship skills and concepts including writing and composition, arrangement, performance, electronic music, music production, studio recording and performance, and global music cultures.
Exploring different disciplines in two electives – one in Year 1 and one in Year 2 – helps enrich your learning experience .
Our exciting range of options allows to you start crafting your expertise.
In Year 3, you’ll refine your own voice and develop a professional portfolio, preparing you for careers in the creative industries.
You’ll shape your own projects, focusing on your area of specialism.
This could include composition, arrangement, installation, film music, performance, studio production, sound design, instrument design or research.
Whether you choose a career in music or in other fields, we emphasise sustainability of practice to ensure you have a long and fulfilling career.
During your studies, you’ll develop:
Our masterclass and workshop series ensures you learn from today’s leading music practitioners.
Our visiting guest lecturers have included producers, mixing engineers, live sound engineers, performers, film composers and mastering engineers.
Many students use their final-year project as a springboard to launch their careers.
Recent graduates have:
Other graduates have gone on to jobs at record labels, at Nordoff Robbins music therapy, or in film and game composition.
Some graduates have also developed their own musical enterprises.
(Music careers database)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/neuroscience-with-psychology-bsc:
Neuroscience with Psychology BSc (Hons)
Are you fascinated by the relationship between the brain and the mind?
On this course, you’ll discover neurobiology while exploring fundamental concepts in cognitive and clinical psychology.
Our researchers specialise in areas such as neurophysiology, cognitive and clinical psychology, molecular biology and pharmacology, and genes and development.
Our multidisciplinary research underpins your teaching.
This gives you the opportunity to dive into the topics that interest you the most.
We work across a broad spectrum of specialisms, from vision and consciousness, to AI and behaviour.
When you graduate, you’ll have transferable skills in neuroscience and psychology, as well as data-handling and analytical skills.
This prepares you for a wide range of science and science-related careers, including:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology-with-neuroscience-bsc:
Psychology with Neuroscience BSc (Hons)
Study in one of the largest schools of psychology in the UK and tailor your course to your interests, choosing from our extensive range of modules.
Whatever your area of interest – clinical, child development, cognitive, forensic, health, social and applied psychology or neuroscience – you'll be supported by our expert staff throughout your degree.
Our course provides a multidisciplinary approach to understanding the relationship between the mind and the brain.
It is jointly taught by neuroscientists and psychologists.
Natalie: My favourite part of my course has been the fact that I’m able to combine subjects.
So I study Psychology, but I also get to study Neuroscience, which means that I can really tailor my course to my specific interests and gain the experience that is most relevant for me.
You’ll develop skills essential for careers in professional psychology or research, including:
You can use the neuroscience skills you’ve learned for jobs in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors, or research careers in neuropharmacology and neuropsychology.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy-ba:
Philosophy BA (Hons)
This course will train you to analyse, organise, communicate, collaborate and think.
Working with professional philosophers and industry partners, you’ll develop these and other skills that will be essential in your future career.
Tackling issues using analytic and continental methodologies, you’ll explore philosophy from western and non-western traditions.
You’ll learn about theoretical philosophy and its applications across society today.
We work with a wide variety of organisations including:
Our links to these organisations mean that you’ll be able to participate in philosophical discussions about real-world issues in a public setting throughout your time with us.
For example, you’ll work in a student team to address a live brief from one of our partner organisations – a valuable real-world experience to add to your CV.
You’ll be part of a community that is friendly, supportive and committed to using philosophy for the greater benefit of society.
This will prepare you to apply your philosophical training to real-world problems in your professional and personal life.
Please note that if you wish to focus exclusively on philosophy, you can take electives in your main subject.
Alternatively, at Sussex, you can choose to customise your course to build the sort of degree that will give you the knowledge, skills and experience that could take you in any direction you choose.
At Sussex, you’ll gain the skills to handle complexity in every area of life.
You’ll be confident to take on professional responsibilities.
Our recent graduates are now working in:
Others have gone on to become museum curators, television script writers, poets, musicians, stand-up comics and entrepreneurs.
(Department of Philosophy careers database)

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy-and-sociology-ba:
Philosophy and Sociology BA (Hons)
Philosophy and Sociology at Sussex will give you the skills to critically analyse today’s society and to tackle its biggest issues.
Our approach to teaching is progressive, innovative and diverse, embracing global as well as western perspectives.
You’ll learn from expert researchers who influence ground-breaking debate.
In Philosophy, you’ll consider universal questions about human behaviour.
In Sociology, you’ll look at how these questions are dealt with now in our legal, political and cultural systems.
The two perspectives then combine to inspire new ways of thinking, and ways of creating positive cultural change.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be part of a community that is friendly, supportive and committed to using academic knowledge for the greater benefit of society.
When you graduate, you’ll be well prepared to apply your philosophical and sociological training to real-world problems in your professional and personal life.
35%: Lecture 45%: Seminar 15%: Practical 5%: One-to-one
By taking a Philosophy and Sociology degree at Sussex, you’ll develop key skills in communication, research, critical thinking and analytical skills.
Outside the classroom, you can join our student-run Philosophy Society where you:
Other have become museum curators, television script writers, poets, musicians, stand-up comics, entrepreneurs and chief executive officers.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics-and-philosophy-ba:
Politics and Philosophy BA (Hons)
How do ideologies shape the world we live in?
What makes a society just?
Can AIs really think?
Studying politics and philosophy at Sussex allows you to consider these pressing global issues as well as gaining real-world experience.
This course will challenge your thinking and expand your horizons.
You'll learn to think deeper about the ideas and debates that shape societies right now.
From the role of religion to how we use language and the rise of populism.
You will build practical experience through:
The student-run Politics and Debating Society gives you the chance to question leading politicians like Green Party MP Siân Berry and former Conservative MP Rory Stewart.
You'll get to hear ground-breaking research via the Philosophy Society, or take the opportunity to present your own theories at the Undergraduate Research Day.
You can also hear from Sussex alumni who have gone on to work in journalism, NGOs, and the private sector.
Bespoke support is built into our politics and philosophy degree.
Recent Politics graduates have gone on to jobs such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/astrophysics-mphys:
Astrophysics MPhys
This integrated Masters course is perfect if you want to develop your skills in physics to gain a deeper understanding of the Universe.
It’s particularly relevant if you’re interested in a career in research or industry.
You’ll have the opportunity to work alongside faculty who are at the forefront of astrophysics.
Their work involves observing the electromagnetic signals from distant sources outside the Milky Way, all the way back to the light echo from the Big Bang.
They do this using the largest available x-ray, optical, infrared, microwave and radio telescopes.
Their collaborations include the James Webb Space Telescope, ESA’s Euclid mission, the Simons Observatory and the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument.
This world-leading research directly influences your teaching.
You’ll join a friendly close-knit community.
Class sizes are small and our lectures operate an open-door policy, so you’ll always find help if you need it.
You’ll have the opportunity to study a wide range of topics including:
In your final year, you’ll have the opportunity to work on a year-long project that will take you to the frontiers of modern research.
You can choose from an array of projects.
Transferable skills gained include programming with Python, statistical analysis and advanced research skills.
When you graduate, you’ll have the confidence and knowledge to pursue a range of careers in academic research, data science, finance and programming.
A-levels must include Mathematics and Physics.
M1, M1 and M2
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade B at A-level and, M2 and M1 in two Pre-Us.
If you have two A-levels and a Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject we would normally expect you to have grades AB at A-level and M2 in the Pre-U.
You must have either Mathematics at A-level and Physics or as a Cambridge Pre-U Principal subjects.
Higher Levels must include Mathematics, with a grade of 6 and Higher level Physics.
Highers must include both Mathematics and Physics.
A-levels must include Mathematics and Physics.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.5) and Higher level Physics.
Relevant state (Year 12) High School Certificate, and a score of 95% in the ATAR or UAI/TER/ENTER, or a Queensland OP of 2 or better.
Evidence of existing academic ability in both Mathematics and Physics is essential.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalaureat with a final result of at least 14/20 in Mathematics and Physics.
Physics is desirable, but we will consider applicants on a case-by-case basis.
You will need to achieve a final mark of at least 14/15 in Mathematics and Physics.
You will also need High score levels in Physics.
Advanced/higher-level ability in Physics.
Evidence of existing academic ability in both Mathematics (H1) and Physics is essential.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.5 from 4 subjects including Mathematics.
Evidence of existing academic ability in both Mathematics (8/10) and Physics is essential.
Giulia: Well, my favourite thing about the course was being able to do a placement year and spend some of my time at CERN.
And, CERN is basically the biggest Particle Physics Centre in all the world.
And, my objective there was basically to share with the public about the science that we were doing there and basically our research.
And I also spent some time going around all the different experiments and even underground.
And, it was absolutely amazing to be able to be surrounded by real physicists and scientists, doing real research.
And it also helped me understand what I wanted to do in the future.
In your first year, you’ll explore classical and modern physics.
You’ll learn to work with large sets of data, study the mathematics needed to formulate physical laws and make predictions from them, and get to experiment in our teaching laboratories.
You’ll also begin to explore topics in astrophysics and astronomy.
60%: Lecture 40%: Practical
40%: Coursework 60%: Examination
This breaks down into about 420 hours of contact time and about 780 hours of independent study.
In Year 2, you’ll use your developing problem-solving skills to solve more complex issues.
You’ll will work on laboratory experiments or data analysis projects.
50%: Lecture 20%: Seminar 30%: Practical
This breaks down into about 320 hours of contact time and about 880 hours of independent study.
Recent Mathematical and Physical Sciences students have gone on placements at:
In Year 3, you’ll apply the knowledge you’ve gained to longer and more complex projects.
You’ll cement your core physics knowledge with solid state, atomic and nuclear physics, and also take forward your own interests.
59%: Lecture 9%: Seminar 32%: Practical
In your integrated Masters year, you’ll work at the forefront of research.
You’ll take the lead on a self-directed project, supported by a supervisor.
You’ll also choose options relevant to your project to support you in the discovery process.
52%: Lecture 48%: Practical
15%: Coursework 60%: Examination 13%: Practical 12%: Written assessment
Professor of Theoretical Cosmology
View profile of Christian Byrnes
Professor of Astrophysics
View profile of Ilian Iliev
Professor of Cosmology
View profile of Antony Lewis
View profile of Jonathan Loveday
Ernest Rutherford Fellow
View profile of Eva-Maria Mueller
View profile of Seb Oliver
View profile of Kathy Romer
View profile of David Seery
Professor of Cosmological Physics
View profile of Robert E Smith
Professor of Astronomy and Public Understanding of Science
View profile of Stephen Wilkins
On your course, you’ll develop versatile and transferable skills.
This prepares you for finding jobs in industry or academia.
Many of our graduates go on to postgraduate research and PhD study.
Others find graduate jobs in a diverse range of fields, including:
Recent Physics and Astronomy graduates have started their careers as:
Some of our graduates have also gone on to study for a postgraduate qualification (for example a PhD, MSc or PGCE).
(Department of Physics and Astronomy careers database)
BBB - including grade B in Mathematics

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-bsc:
Physics BSc (Hons)
From subatomic particles to entire galaxies, physics allows us to explore the big questions, while having a significant impact on our daily lives.
At Sussex, you’ll explore fascinating subjects, learning from world-leading researchers.
Their work includes developing next-generation quantum computers, investigating quantum gravity and black holes, searching for fundamental particles at CERN and studying our universe from the Big Bang to modern times.
You could be working with researchers who are part of a team using NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope.
Your teaching and modules are directly influenced by our research.
You’ll use the latest equipment and state-of-the-art laboratories, and gain a broad understanding of the core principles of physics.
Options enable you to specialise in areas you find most fascinating.
You’ll apply this knowledge across a range of areas including:
You’ll also work with one of our expert research teams.
You could be making exciting discoveries during your final-year project.
Our department is a friendly hive of activity.
You’ll join a close-knit community.
Our open-door policy means that whatever you need, we’ll be there to support you.
By graduation, you’ll have developed skills much in demand with employers.
You’ll gain an analytical approach to problem solving, data analysis skills and solid research skills.
Your training will open doors to exciting careers in:
We also offer this course as a four-year degree with an industrial placement year , as a four-year MPhys , as a four-year MPhys with research placements , or as a five-year MPhys with an industrial placement year .
A-levels must include Mathematics grade B
Physics A-level is desirable, but we will consider applicants on a case-by-case basis without it.
You should have a broad range of GCSEs grade 9-4  (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
In addition to the Access to HE Diploma, you will also need an A-level in Mathematics, with at least grade B.
If you have one A-level and two Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects we would expect you to have grade A at A-level and, M2 and M2 in two Pre-Us.
You must have either Mathematics at A-level or as a Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject.
IB Higher Levels must include Mathematics, with a grade of 5.
Grades AB in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
You will need A-level in Mathematics
The BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma should be in Engineering and must include Distinctions in Engineering Principles, Calculus to Solve Engineering Problems and Further engineering maths units.
Highers must include Mathematics and, normally, also Physics.
Applicants without Physics will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Ideally, you will also have an Advanced Higher in Mathematics (grade B).
You should have a broad range of GCSEs (A*-C), including good grades in relevant subjects.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.0).
Evidence of existing academic ability to a high level in Mathematics is essential.
You will need to be taking the science strand within the French Baccalaureat with a final result of at least 12/20 in Mathematics.
You will need to achieve a final mark of at least 12/15 in Mathematics.
Advanced/higher-level ability in Physics is desirable.
Highers must include Mathematics with a score of H1.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics is essential.
Higher level Physics is desirable, but we will consider applicants on a case-by-case basis.
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade above 2.0 from 4 subjects including Mathematics.
A Physics qualification is desirable, but we will consider applicants on a case-by-case basis without it.
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics is essential (at least 8/10).
Physics to a higher level is desirable, but we will consider applicants on a case-by-case basis without it.
We look at your full profile taking into account everything you are studying, including the high school graduation diploma, Grade 12 GPA, SAT tests and /or ACT grades  We are particularly interested in AP tests and would ideally like to see three good AP scores.
You’ll learn to work with large sets of data, find out about the programming language Python and get to experiment in our teaching laboratories.
An industrial placement gives you the chance to spend an additional year working with an organisation, in an area relevant to your course, while being paid.
Supervised by one of our researchers, you’ll choose a topic you’re passionate about and apply the knowledge you’ve gained throughout your degree to your project.
12%: Coursework 60%: Examination 11%: Practical 5%: Group work 12%: Written assessment
Reader in Experimental Particle Physics
View profile of Lily Asquith
Professor Of Physics RSW Research MeritAward Holder
View profile of Antonella De Santo
Professor of Physics
View profile of Jacob Dunningham
Professor of Experimental Physics
View profile of Matthias Keller
Associate Professor in Applied Materials and Interfaces
View profile of Alice King
Reader in Quantum Physics
View profile of Fedja Orucevic
View profile of Simon Peeters
Grades BC in A-levels including grade B in Mathematics and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-mphys:
Physics MPhys
You could be making exciting discoveries during your final-year project and your research placement opportunities.
Your integrated Masters year means you develop advanced physics skills .
We also offer this course as a five-year MPhys with an industrial placement year , as a four-year MPhys with research placements , as a three-year BSc , or as a four-year BSc with an industrial placement year .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-quantum-technology-mphys:
Physics (Quantum Technology) MPhys
Quantum technology has the power to transform the way we live and work.
This exciting and rapidly growing field could help solve global issues – from making powerful medicines, understanding chemical reactions, creating better batteries and materials, to reducing our carbon footprint, and beyond.
On this course, you’ll explore the fascinating world of quantum technology and also gain a broad understanding of the core principles of physics.
At Sussex, you’ll learn from world-leading researchers and key influencers in industry.
Our research informs your modules.
From quantum computers to quantum sensors, and from atomic clocks to the quantum internet, this degree helps you understand and develop a whole new generation of technologies, based on the strange properties of quantum physics.
You’ll benefit from the expertise in the Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies .
You’ll join one of our quantum technology research groups as part of your final-year project.
Your broad training in physics equips you for a wide range of careers, while your specialisation in quantum technology will allow you to join the expanding quantum technology sector.
On graduation, you’ll have developed skills much in demand with employers.
You’ll have skills in problem-solving, data analysis, technical knowledge and research.
Higher Levels must include Mathematics and Higher level Physics with a grade of 7.
You will also need Advanced Highers in both Mathematics and Physics (grade A).
AAA from the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels
Evidence of existing academic ability in Mathematics and Higher level Physics.
is essential (normally with a final grade of at least 8.5).
Evidence of existing academic ability to a high level in Mathematics and Physics is essential.
You must also have either Apolytirion pathway in Mathematics and Physics with a score of 20 or the Pan Hellenic in Mathematics and Physics with an overall score of 18.
Highers must include Mathematics and Physics with a score of H1.
Pass Matura with least 3 Extended level subjects including Mathematics and Physics in the 85th percentile.
Diploma de Bacalaureat with an overall average of between 9.0 including a score of 9 in Mathematics and Physics
Pass Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita)  with an average grade of 1.2 from 4 subjects including Mathematics and Physics.
and to include grade A in Mathematics and Physics.
You’ll build on your mathematics skills to solve problems in physics and find out about the coding language Python.
You’ll also explore current research in quantum technology and future frontiers.
In Year 2, you’ll build on the knowledge gained in your first year.
You’ll develop a more advanced understanding of the principles and techniques needed for quantum technologies.
Putting theory into practice, you’ll gain deeper theoretical skills and carry out more advanced experiments.
In Year 3, you’ll master core topics in physics and explore how they can be applied to quantum technologies.
In your integrated Masters year, you’ll apply all the knowledge and experience gained so far to understand cutting-edge topics in quantum technologies.
As part of your research project, you’ll carry out original research in quantum technologies.
The Department of Physics and Astronomy is a friendly hive of activity.
Professor Of Quantum Physics
View profile of Barry Garraway
Professor of Quantum Technologies
View profile of Winfried Hensinger
View profile of Jose Verdu Galiana
Professor of Quantum Computing and Entre
View profile of Sebastian Weidt
During your studies, you’ll get careers and CV advice.
With careers fairs, forums and a dedicated careers officer, we support your career development from day one.
You’ll have opportunities to meet potential employers.
In the Department of Physics and Astronomy , you’ll have a wide range of paid work opportunities.
This ranges from teaching and research opportunities in the summer, to outreach roles throughout the year.
We are a core part of the SEPnet (South East Physics Network) consortium , which gives us links to universities and industries across the region.
On graduation, you’ll have the range of versatile and technical skills required by employers.
You’ll be well prepared for a variety of technical and management roles in the quantum technology sector.
You could also choose to progress into roles in:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-quantum-technology-research-placement-mphys:
Physics (Quantum Technology) (research placement) MPhys
This course is for you if want to change the world and help make quantum technologies a reality.
The degree offers you the exciting opportunity to work on cutting-edge quantum technology research here at Sussex each summer, and get funding to cover your living expenses during that time.
It might even be possible to work in your research group during term time, provided you excel in your studies and have extra time you’d like to dedicate to research.
We are the first UK university to offer undergraduate students quantum technology research experience from day one of your degree.
You’ll join one of our quantum technology research groups and learn from world-leading researchers and key influencers in industry.
During your research placements and integrated Masters year, you’ll develop new research skills – particularly relevant if you’re interested in going on to a research career at universities or in industry.
A-levels must include Mathematics and Physics at grade A.
You must have Mathematics and Physics at either A-level or as a Cambridge Pre-U Principal subject.
Higher Levels must include Mathematics and Physics with a grade of 7.
You will need an A-level in Mathematics and Physics.
Our MPhys course with a research placement is a stimulating intellectual challenge for well-qualified students, providing unique training for a future research career.
You can apply to work on a research problem with a member of faculty in the Department of Physics and Astronomy each summer before Years 2, 3 and 4.
During the summer research placements, you receive funding to cover your living expenses.
Find out more about our research placements and summer projects at Department of Physics and Astronomy: Undergraduate Research
[Screen reads 'Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies’]
[Caption reads ‘Professor Winfried Hensinger, Director of the Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies’]
Now we are building a full-scale quantum computer that will be able to find the answers to some of the most urgent technical challenges of our time.
[Screen shows: University of Sussex logo]
Grades AA in A-levels and Distinction in Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-research-placement-mphys:
Physics (research placement) MPhys
This course is for you if you’re an academic high-flyer.
It offers you the exciting opportunity to work on a cutting-edge research project here at Sussex each summer and get funding to cover your living expenses during that time.
You’ll join our experts and immerse yourself in world-class research .
In your integrated Masters year, you’ll develop advanced physical skills through working with one of the expert research groups in our Department .
During your research placement and integrated Masters year, you’ll develop new research skills – particularly relevant if you're interested in going on to a research career at universities or in industry.
We also offer this course without the research placements , as five-year MPhys with an industrial placement year , as a four-year BSc with an industrial placement year , or as a three-year BSc .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-with-an-industrial-placement-year-bsc:
Physics (with an industrial placement year) BSc (Hons)
You could be making exciting discoveries during your final-year project and through research placement opportunities.
You’ll have the opportunity to apply for a year working in industry.
You can choose from a range of companies and we have links with employers through SEPnet (South East Physics Network) .
Our Department is a friendly hive of activity.
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , as a four-year MPhys , as a four-year MPhys with research placements , or as a five-year MPhys with an industrial placement year .
Grades AB in A-levels and Distinction in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.
DDM-DMM

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-with-an-industrial-placement-year-mphys:
Physics (with an industrial placement year) MPhys
We also offer this course without the industrial placement year , with research placements , as a three-year BSc , or as a four-year BSc with an industrial placement year .

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-with-astrophysics-bsc:
Physics with Astrophysics BSc (Hons)
This course is perfect if you’re passionate about physics and fascinated by the mysteries of the universe.
You’ll apply physics and mathematics to explore planets, stars, galaxies, and the wider Universe.
Your teaching is directly influenced by our world-leading research.
Our faculty work at the forefront of their subject.
Their work includes developing next-generation quantum computers, exploring dark energy and quantum effects in black holes, searching for fundamental particles at CERN and working with the James Webb Space Telescope.
You’ll use the latest equipment and state-of-the-art laboratories, and gain a broad understanding of the core principles of physics and astrophysics.
You’ll work with world-leading physicists and astronomers, using our rooftop optical, radio and muon telescopes, or data from the James Webb Space Telescope or one of the other projects we are involved in.
Your training will open doors to careers in:
We also offer this course as a four-year MPhys .
Grades BB in A-levels and Merit in BTEC Level 3 National Extended Certificate.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-with-astrophysics-mphys:
Physics with Astrophysics MPhys
This integrated Masters course is perfect if you’re passionate about physics and fascinated by the mysteries of the universe.
The degree is particularly relevant if you’re interested in a research career at university or in industry.
In Year 4, you’ll apply the knowledge you’ve gained to an advanced research project.
You’ll work with world-leading astrophysicists, using rooftop optical, radio and muon telescopes.
Your training will open doors to careers in research or industry.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-with-data-science-bsc:
Physics with Data Science BSc (Hons)
If you’re keen to study physics but fascinated by data analysis and machine learning, this course is for you.
Technological advancements in physics and data science methods allow us to respond to a wide range of problems.
These include modelling disease evolution, mitigating climate change and optimising business models.
You’ll study the fundamentals of both subjects, and develop the skills to tackle some of the biggest data driven challenges in modern science.
They include:
In your final year project you could be working with our expert physicists and data scientists.
Our faculty are at the forefront of their fields.
Their work includes developing next generation quantum computers, exploring dark energy and quantum effects in black holes, searching for fundamental particles at CERN, and working with NASA’s James Webb Telescope.
By graduation you’ll have gained skills much in demand by employers, including computer programming skills, data analysis and solid research skills.
Career options include work in finance, data analytics and software development.
Our department is a friendly, close-knit community.
Our lecturers take time to get to know you and are available to offer support.
So you‘ll always find help, if you need it.
We also offer this course as a four-year MPhys with an integrated Masters year.
You’ll use mathematics to solve problems in physics and find out about the programming language Python.
Professor Of Statistics & Probability
View profile of Enrico Scalas
We are a core part of the SEPnet (South East Physics Network) consortium.
This gives us links to universities and industries across the region.
You could progress into a diverse range of graduate jobs including:
During your course, you’ll get dedicated careers and CV advice.
You’ll have a wide range of paid work opportunities within the Department – from teaching and research opportunities in the summer, to outreach roles throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics-with-data-science-mphys:
Physics with Data Science MPhys
If you’re keen to study advanced physics but fascinated by data analysis and machine learning, this integrated Masters course is for you.
You’ll develop an advanced understanding of topics in physics and data science, and acquire the skills to tackle some of the biggest data driven challenges in modern science.
You’ll work with a departmental research group headed by our expert physicists and data scientists.
By graduation you’ll have gained advanced skills much in demand by employers, including programming skills, data analysis and solid research skills.
Career options include work in finance, data analytics, software development and research, at university or in industry.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/theoretical-physics-bsc:
Theoretical Physics BSc (Hons)
If you want to use your mathematics skills to explore the concepts of fundamental physics, this course is for you.
Alongside mathematics, you’ll learn the methods of theoretical physics, and apply them to areas such as particle physics, cosmology, and condensed-state and atomic physics.
This focus means that you’ll spend less time on experimental techniques compared to other physics courses.
You’ll be taught by our world-leading researchers who are at the forefront of physics.
Their work includes:
This work informs your teaching – our m odules are based on the latest faculty research.
Topics may include:
In your third year, you’ll join a research team for your final-year project.
You can also apply for a year studying abroad or going on a placement.
By graduation, you’ll have gained the skills employers are looking for.
You’ll be skilled in Python programming, transforming physics problems into mathematical statements and statistical analysis.
You’ll learn to work with large sets of data, and expand your mathematical knowledge to be ready for advanced theoretical physics concepts.
Professor of Theoretical Physics
View profile of Andrea Banfi
View profile of Xavier Calmet
View profile of Stephan Huber
View profile of Sebastian Jaeger
View profile of Jonas Lindert
View profile of Daniel Litim

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/theoretical-physics-mphys:
Theoretical Physics MPhys
If you want to use your mathematics skills to explore the concepts of fundamental physics, this integrated Masters is for you.
It’s particularly relevant if you're interested in a career in research.
In your final year, you’ll apply the skills you’ve gained to an advanced research project.
By graduation, you’ll have the advanced skills needed for a career in research or industry.
Many of our graduates have also gone on to study for a postgraduate qualification (for example a PhD, MSc or PGCE).

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology-with-a-professional-placement-year-bsc:
Psychology (with a professional placement year) BSc (Hons)
You’ll also have the opportunity to apply for a professional placement in your third year.
Whatever your interest – clinical, child development, cognitive, forensic, health, social and applied psychology or neuroscience – we have the expertise to support you.
Mariola: My favourite thing about my course is...
[umm] that it helps me a lot to grow personally.
So it gives me the tools to learn who Mariola is, and also get the people around me to get to know them properly.
And, I feel like it’s been very helpful to find my place in the world, and my life.
[LAUGHTER]
When you leave Sussex, you’ll benefit from having the experience employers are looking for.
Our expert teaching, combined with support from our careers team, enables you to develop skills in:
We prepare you for a range of careers including professional psychology, research and advertising.

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics-ba:
Politics BA (Hons)
The world is at a crossroads.
The climate crisis is reshaping our planet.
Migration and conflict are testing global solidarity.
Corruption is on the rise and democracy seems more fragile than ever.
Studying politics at Sussex allows you to consider these pressing questions as well as gaining real-world experience.
You'll gain in-depth insight to these critical issues and develop the practical skills to make a difference.
Your tutors aren’t just experts in their fields, they’re shaping public policy and influencing governments.
The student-run Politics and Debating Society will give you the chance to question leading politicians like Green Party MP Siân Berry and former Conservative MP Rory Stewart.
You can also hear from Sussex graduates who have gone on to work in government, journalism, NGOs, and the private sector.
Other opportunities include visiting Berlin where you can meet politicians in the German Bundestag and see politics in action.
Bespoke support is built into our politics degree.
Career specialists within the Politics Department will help you maximise your potential every step of the way.
Equipped with a powerful combination of political knowledge and skills in research, analysis and communication, our graduates stand out in the job market.
Recent Department of Politics graduates have gone on to jobs such as:

New sentences found on https://sussex.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics-and-sociology-ba:
Politics and Sociology BA (Hons)
What holds societies together?
How does populist politics divide them?
How can we build solidarity in diverse communities?
Studying politics and sociology at Sussex allows you to consider these pressing questions as well as gaining real-world experience.
On this course, you will gain in-depth insight to how societies work, which forces drive them, and how change happens.
You will explore how wealth, technology, crime and gender shape societies and politics.
Learn from academics who are experts in their field and advise NGOs and governments.
Equipped with a powerful combination of social science expertise and skills in research, analysis and communication, our graduates stand out in the job market.