# Site: https://www.swansea.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 496
# --------

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk:
Start your journey here
Find out more about our world-changing research
Latest news and research
View all Clearing Vacancies
Chat to us directly
Whatsapp Messenger
Facebook Messenger
Email us directly
Apply for University managed accommodation by 9th September to get a guaranteed accommodation offer.
See our Clearing Accommodation pages for more information.
We want to extend a big congratulations to all our new Swansea University students!
We are excited to welcome you to your new campus in September.
Wondering about your arrival at Swansea, what to bring, or how to get to know the area?
Find all the information you need by clicking the link below:
Apply for University managed accommodation by 19th August to get a guaranteed accommodation offer.
Wondering how applying through Clearing will affect your student finance?
Check out our helpful guide for Clearing students in England and Wales.
You’ll hear it all the time, but it’s not an exaggeration to say going to university is life-changing.
It’s your time to make incredible memories and lifelong friends.
Explore your future at Swansea.
Thinking about the cost of living at University?
Read our handy guide to help you prepare.
Find out about our inspirational teaching.
Join our dynamic research environment as a student, organisation or colleague.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea:
Looking for a new job?
Changing role?
Interested in what Swansea University can offer you?
We are a warm and welcoming University.
We value people for their skills regardless of their background and are proudly named as a top employer in the annual Stonewall Equality Index.
We know that people have commitments outside their job, so we provide a working environment that allows employees to achieve the right work/life balance.
We have a range of great benefits, all supported by the services of our award-winning HR department.
Life on Campus
History and Heritage
University Awards and Rankings

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy:
Dechreuwch eich taith yma
Newyddion a Ymchwil Diweddaraf straeon
Edrychwch ar ein holl Lleoedd Clirio
Sgwrsiwch â ni’n uniongyrchol
ar negesydd whatsapp
ar negesydd facebook
ebostiwch ni’n uniongyrchol
Gwnewch gais am lety wedi ei reoli gan y Brifysgol cyn Medi 9fed i gael cynnig llety wedi ei warantu.
Gweler ein tudalennau Clirio Llety am fwy o wybodaeth.
Llongyfarchiadau mawr i'n holl fyfyrwyr newydd ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe!
Rydym yn gyffrous i'ch croesawu i'ch campws newydd ym mis Medi.
Ydych chi eisoes yn pendroni am bryd i gyrraedd Abertawe, beth i ddod gyda chi, neu sut i ddod i adnabod yr ardal?
Dewch o hyd i'r holl wybodaeth sydd ei hangen arnoch trwy glicio ar y ddolen isod;
Gwnewch gais am lety wedi ei reoli gan y Brifysgol cyn Awst yr 22ain i gael cynnig llety wedi ei warantu.
Tybed sut y bydd gwneud cais drwy Glirio yn effeithio ar eich cyllid myfyrwyr?
Edrychwch ar ein canllaw defnyddiol ar gyfer myfyrwyr Clirio yng Nghymru a Lloegr.
Fe wnewch chi glywed hyn drwy'r amser, ond nid yw'n ormod i ddweud bod mynd i'r brifysgol yn newid eich bywyd.
Dyma'ch amser i wneud atgofion anhygoel a ffrindiau am oes.
Archwiliwch eich dyfodol yn Abertawe
Ystyried costau byw tra yn y Brifysgol?
Darllenwch ein canllaw defnyddiol i'ch helpu i baratoi.
Dysgwch am ein haddysgu ysbrydoledig.
Ymunwch â’n hamgylchedd ymchwil deinamig fel myfyriwr, sefydliad, neu gydweithiwr.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study:
As a student at Swansea University you will benefit from our multicultural dual-campus community that provides a global perspective and opportunities to gain skills that last a lifetime.
Our unique location means that you are never far from the city or the beach, so take a look around, because whoever you are and whoever you want to be, you'll find yourself right at home in Swansea.
Undergraduate Prospectus
Postgraduate Prospectus
International Prospectus

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Our stunning waterfront campuses and friendly welcome make Swansea University the perfect destination for students from all over the world.
Providing a practical and engaging education that prepares you for the real world.
You'll find a blend of cutting-edge research , a range of diverse courses and a campus life that's both dynamic and welcoming.
Our on-campus accommodation offers you a home-from-home, where you can have peace of mind knowing you are part of a safe and secure community .
University accommodation means you will be close to all our incredible campus facilities , award-winning beaches, sporting facilities , places to eat and libraries.
Find out more about our accommodation options .
Swansea University offers more than just a degree; it's an opportunity to build skills, connections, and experiences that will shape your future.
Explore our courses and find your place at Swansea.
Receive emails including Open Day information, newsletters and more.
Attend a Swansea University Open Day, find upcoming undergraduate dates here.
Ask our students about their experience at Swansea University.
Learn about financial support for your degree.
Join the Swansea community, find your on-campus accommodation.
Sports, clubs and societies, culture and entertainment, Swansea has it all.
I can wholeheartedly say that this was the best decision I have ever made – right from that initial phone call, Swansea believed in me as a person and as a student.
Such a great time at uni and received so much support throughout my time.
Beautiful location, amazing facilities and so happy I’m studying here.
Brilliant university.
Read our comprehensive guide
How to complete your UCAS application
Contact the Undergrad Admissions team

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses:
Discover your student home

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/accommodation:
Worried about missing out?
Living in university accommodation puts you at the heart of campus life, making it easy to join events, meet new people, and create unforgettable memories.
Stay connected, stay social, and never miss a moment—because the best experiences happen when you’re right where the action is!
Starting university is exciting, and we're here to make your move smooth.
Our safe, welcoming accommodation offers the perfect space to relax and feel at home.
We offer options for first-year, returning, postgraduate, and exchange students.
Apply as soon as you receive your student number—offers are sent after you confirm your place.
Select the option that best describes you and start the process of finding your student home.
If you have already made your choice, find out how to apply for accommodation or learn more about your arrival and what to bring with you .
With direct access to parks, beaches and fantastic sports facilities, studying at Swansea University means you have a range of accommodation options across both campuses, as well as off campus and in private sector accommodation .
We have you and your needs covered with something to suit everyone.
Find out why university accommodation may be the best option for you.
We are committed to enabling access for all students, so offer a number of adapted and accessible rooms , please specify on your application if you will require an accessible room and we will try and support you with this through our allocations process.
We also offer a range of designated accommodation areas for students who have specific preferences or requirements, including accommodation for Welsh speaking students , quieter accommodation, single-sex areas, mature student areas, alcohol free residences and residences for students studying subjects with non-standard course lengths .
We will always try to accommodate students within these preferences where possible.
Please ensure you specify your needs on your application or discuss options with our accommodation team when applying.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing can be an exciting time full of new opportunities.
It is your chance to find the perfect fit for your academic journey, whether you don't quite get the grades you're hoping for or you've had a change of heart about your course.
At Swansea University, we're here to help you every step of the way.
Our Clearing Helpline is open Monday to Friday from 09:00 - 17:00 excluding Bank Holiday (Monday 25th August).
Apply today and you'll also be guaranteed an offer of University-managed accommodation .
Find your perfect course today.
Applying from overseas?
View our vacancies for EU and International Students .
Once you've applied come visit us at one of our Clearing Open Days or join us for a virtual Q&A to discover more about life as a student at Swansea University.
Accommodation Guarantee
Simply put, yes.
There is a university for everyone and even if you don’t get the grades you need, you can go through the clearing process to explore alternatives or even new options.
At Swansea, our Admissions team are on hand to answer any questions you might have, we also offer foundation courses as well as academic support for when you join.
Explore more about Clearing in our Guide to Clearing .
Don’t panic - you are not alone.
Clearing is a great way to speak to either your chosen university and explore the options there or you can speak to other universities who may have places on the course you want to study.
At Swansea we can be flexible around certain offers.
Call us to discuss your options
You can use the Self-Release option via UCAS Hub (by declining your offer) if you have accepted a place at another University but have decided you want to come to Swansea.
However, do make this decision carefully as you may lose your place at your original university if you decide you’ve made a mistake.
Read our guide on how to decline your offer to find out more.
One of the biggest concerns can be the cost of going to university, most UK students will pay for their tuition fees and living expenses by applying for financial support through the relevant Student Finance websites.
Don't forget you may also be entitled to a scholarship or bursary - at Swansea University you could receive up to £3,000!
Additionally, there are lots of student jobs available on campus that will fit in with your timetable, plus employability support.
Explore student finance options
Of course!
We will be holding a number of Clearing Open Days between 15 - 18 August , where you can visit us and discover life as a Swansea University student.
There will be opportunities for you to tour the campus and talk to members of staff in your chosen subject faculty.
Visit our Clearing events page to find out more.
Swansea is a vibrant coastal city where students can take full advantage of city life whilst also exploring the beach.
As a university with two campuses, students quickly become part of the community where they get that home away from home feeling.
We have a variety of student accommodation options that suit different lifestyles, plus over 150 different sports and societies to join so there’s something for everyone!
Discover why people love Swansea University
From housemates and coursemates to sports teams and societies, there are plenty of opportunities for you to meet like-minded people and make friends.
There are a whole host of events, social activities, and nights out where you can build friendships and meet new people.
Discover student life
Going to university is an exciting time but it’s a big change and making sure the university you want to go to has the right support systems in place is important.
At Swansea we have a variety of support services around academic success, finance, employability, wellbeing and more.
We provide information, advice, guidance, and support to enable every student to develop and achieve their full potential.
Discover all our support services
For a full list of FAQ's about university life and the Clearing process please visit our Clearing Frequently Asked Questions webpage.
Discover the city of Swansea which we hope you will choose to be your new home over the next few years.
From Mumbles to the Maritime Quarter, you'll find a city with plenty of charm and bags of character.
Lucy is one of the many students that come to Swansea through clearing.
Listen to her experience and why she chose Swansea.
View more videos from our students to discover what the student experience is really like.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/parents:
As a parent, guardian or someone with caring responsibilities, you will find yourself as one of the most important and trusted sources of information and advice for your child.
Deciding to go to university is a big step in their journey toward independence and although this is an exciting time, we understand that it can also be challenging.
The following information will help you understand the process better so that you can plan ahead and support your child in making the right decision.
We would recommend beginning to research universities around spring time, which will give you enough time to narrow down your choices and attend any events such as exhibitions or open days, before making a UCAS application.
We have a handy guide on how to complete your UCAS application , including information on key dates, references and how to submit an application, as well as a guide on how to write your UCAS personal statement .
PRE-APPLICATION TIMELINE
POST-APPLICATION TIMELINE
Spring / Summer: Research the course
While the application process for International students does not follow a set timeline of dates, as it does for our Home students, there are a number of deadlines that must be met before a student can successfully be accepted and enrol onto one of our courses, including submitting an application, paying the course deposit, and obtaining a CAS.
Visit our Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies page for more information.
PRE-APPLICATION STEPS
POST-APPLICATION STEPS
For both parents and students, we know that one of the biggest concerns can be the cost of going to university.
To help you understand the overall cost of attending university, we have pulled together information on all things finance, including the costs associated with your child’s course, and any financial support available to them including loans, bursaries and scholarships.
We even have a cost of living in Swansea page , to breakdown the typical living costs in our city.
We know your child living away from home can be daunting, but Swansea University has plenty of options to make them feel at home!
Finding the right accommodation can make a real difference when it comes to settling in and feeling at home which is why it's important to look at the accommodation factors that are most important to your child.
Swansea University offers guaranteed accommodation if applications are made before 30 June .
We also offer a variety of student housing across four locations, with designated areas including quiet, single sex, alcohol free, mature and Welsh speaking.
There is 24 hour security on campus and a dedicated support network that can offer help and advice throughout.
Our students’ health and wellbeing is paramount, which is why Swansea University offers a number of services to assist your child throughout their time at university.
In addition to these services, the Student Support Services team is there to ensure all Swansea University students have equal opportunities.
The team offers services for students experiencing difficulties, as well as more complex long-term issues.
These include sensory or physical impairments, long-term medical conditions, specific learning difficulties (SpLD), autistic spectrum conditions (ASC) and mental health conditions.
For many of our students, attending university is the first time they have lived away from home.
This change may bring a mixture of emotions, but there are many ways you can help smooth this transition for your child.
Our guide below on supporting your child from school to university, includes a number top tips on how to manage the transition, and you can sign up to our newsletter (with more handy tips and useful reminders throughout the application cycle), which will give you access to our free Parent Guide.
We also offer advice on how to navigate if your child is applying to university  through Clearing.
Tuition fees will depend on whether your child is a UK or International student.
Within the UK there is lots of financial support available to help your child secure their Higher Education place.
Head back to our Fees and Funding section above to learn more.
Swansea University offers a variety of student housing across four locations, with designated areas including quiet, single sex, alcohol free, mature and Welsh speaking.
Head back to our University Accommodation section to explore the wide range of accommodation options available.
Our Student Support Services section outlines the vast number of services available to any student who is experiencing personal difficulties.
Please do signpost your child to our CampusLife services if they reach out to you, our teams are available and on-hand to support your child with guidance, advice and support in a friendly and comfortable space.
They can visit in person, telephone us or email.
The Student Support Team offers services for students experiencing emotional and personal difficulties, as well as more complex long-term issues.
They offer expertise in dealing with sensory or physical impairments, long-term medical conditions, specific learning difficulties (SpLD), autistic spectrum conditions (ASC) and mental health conditions.
Attending an Open Day with your child is a great way to see what student life is like at Swansea University.
Take a look at our Undergraduate Open Day page, to see our upcoming events and to book your place.
If your son or daughter hasn't secured a place at University, or has changed their mind, they can apply through Clearing.
Clearing is a UCAS process that matches applicants to course vacancies.
Our Clearing Advice for Parents and Guardians will provide you with all the information you need to help your child, should they apply through Clearing.
For a full list of FaQ's please visit our Parent and Guardian FAQ's webpage.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/open-days:
We are looking forward to welcoming you onto campus for our Open Days where you will be able to meet your lecturers, explore Swansea and chat with current students.
If you are hoping to join us through Clearing in September, we will be holding a number of Clearing open days between 15 - 18 August and on 29 August .
Visit us and discover life as a Swansea University student.
These events are reserved for Clearing students joining us in September 2025, if you are applying to university for September 2026 entry join us at one of our autumn or spring open days.
Yes, please book in advance and bring your ticket with you.
Registration will open from 8:30am and finish at approximately 4pm but how you plan your day is up to you.
All sessions and talks are listed in our Open Day Programme.
Swansea’s Spring Open Days will include similar content and provision to other universities who might use the terms ‘Applicant Day’ or ‘Offer Holder Day’.
No.
Accompanying family and friends do not need to book a ticket.
For a full list of FAQ'S please visit our Frequently Asked Questions webpage .
In addition to our open days, there are also several events for specific areas of interest.
We hope to see you there!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
Find your Undergraduate Course using our A - Z search
Whether you are preparing to apply for your undergraduate course , have already applied for your place at Swansea University , have received your offer from Swansea or have already accepted your undergraduate offer we are here to help.
Applying for University is an exciting experience, but you are certain to have some questions along the way.
UCAS has a lot of general information about applying for your course.
Find out about other students experiences at Swansea University first hand and if you can't find everything you need here, just email the admissions team .
We are looking forward to welcoming you!
Undergraduate Courses
Accommodation
Policies, procedures and Code of Practice

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/scholarships:
Swansea University offers a range of academic, departmental, excellence and income related scholarships and bursaries.
Click on the links below to find out more.
We welcome applications through the medium of Welsh and applications submitted in Welsh will be treated no less favourably than English applications.
Students who study through the medium of Welsh can apply for specific scholarships from the University as well as from the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, which aims to support students studying all, or part, of their degree in Welsh.
Find out about the cost of living at Swansea University
Make an undergraduate enquiry using our form
Use our A-Z and search to find your course

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/contact-admissions:
If you have an undergraduate enquiry please contact us at:
Visit our undergraduate 'Apply' pages for information on the application process
Find all of our policies here
Read a few of them here

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate-prospectus:
Rich text format 2026: Swansea University UG Prospectus 2026
Rich text format 2025: Swansea University UG Prospectus 2025
The SUTC (Swansea University Transcription Centre) can produce braille and large print versions of the prospectus if needed, we could offer that service on demand for prospective students (and free of charge).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/register-for-email-updates:
Find out what’s happening at Swansea by registering for updates.
When you sign up, you'll receive useful information, including details on upcoming Open Days, application advice, insights into student life and much more!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Welcome to Postgraduate study at Swansea University!
Swansea University offers award-winning postgraduate study in a stunning coastal location.
From master's degrees to PhD study, we offer postgraduate programmes in a wide variety of subject areas.
We continue to be recognised for the impact of our research which makes real, positive differences to the lives of people across the world.
All of our postgraduate courses are informed by the latest developments in research and innovation.
Discover how Swansea's research is changing lives across the world today.
Explore our range of Postgraduate Taught Courses
Explore our range of Postgraduate Research Courses.
Learn more about the financial support available to you at Swansea.
Order or download a copy of our 2025 prospectus.
Join us for one of our upcoming postgraduate events.
Hear from our postgraduate students about life at Swansea.
Swansea University had all the tools I needed to succeed academically and is so close to great parks and beaches – I didn’t want to study anywhere else.
Swansea provides ample support from lecturers, supervisors, and library staff, ensuring you feel supported.
My advice for undergraduates considering staying for their postgraduate studies is to attend a postgraduate open day to learn more about the courses and opportunities available

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught:
Find available scholarships

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/research:
Search directly for academics working in your field.
View our Research Scholarships
Find more information on how to apply

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/open-days:
To receive more information about postgraduate courses, funding and our next events, please leave your details below:
Register your details

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/apply:
Whether you are preparing to apply for postgraduate study , have already applied for your postgraduate course , have received your offer of a place on a postgraduate degree or have already accepted your offer for postgraduate study, we are here to help.
If you are unable to find everything you need here, please email the admissions team .
Find out what living in Swansea can mean for you.
We look forward to welcoming you to our postgraduate community!
Postgraduate Taught Courses
Postgraduate Accommodation

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/apply/fast-track:
We hope you’ve enjoyed your time here at Swansea University and we’d love you to stay with us a bit longer .
Our master's courses are a great way to improve your professional prospects and expertise.
Interested in staying on ?
Well, there’s great news!
We’re excited to offer you a fast-track application option to study one of our master's degrees starting in September 2025 .
Just apply following the instructions below , and you’ll receive a decision within 48 working hours!
Discover if any of our available master's programmes are suited to you and your interests.
1.
Scroll down to see our list of courses available to Fast Track
2.
From the relevant course page, click on the Apply button and follow the instructions to reach the Swansea University Learner Gateway application page .
3.
You must have a Learner Gateway account to complete an application:
4.
Fill out the application form.
As a current Swansea University student
If you have already applied for Fast Track for 2025/26, you do not need to submit another application via our new portal.
This would only be necessary if you decide to apply for additional courses.
Have you started your master's application or thinking about submitting one?
Visit our Library Application Sessions during the following times to complete your application with expert advice from Admissions staff.
Come along to one of our postgraduate open events to find out more about our courses, funding options and our friendly postgraduate community.
Book now
Required undergraduate degree subject
Engineering, Geography, Science
Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences or related disciplines: Archaeology, Biology, Bioscience, Botany, Chemistry, Computer Science, Ecology, Mathematics, Oceanography and Physics
Biological Sciences, Zoology, Marine Biology, Aquatic Biology, Environmental Sciences
MSc Computer Science
Computer Science, Software Engineering, Software Technology, Information Technology
Health and Social Care, Population Health and Medical Sciences, Medicine (Graduate Entry), Nursing, Pharmacy
Health and Social Care, Human Geography, Medicine (Graduate Entry), Nursing, Pharmacy, Population Health and Medical Sciences, Psychology, Social Policy, Sociology, Sports Science, Genetics, Medical Genetics, Microbiology & Immunology
Any undergraduate course from Faculty of Science and Engineering, Applied Medical Sciences, Medical Biochemistry, Medical Genetics, Medical Pharmacology, Medicine (Graduate Entry), Pharmacy, Population Health and Medical Sciences, Healthcare Science
"I was over the moon when I found the MSc in Nanomedicine offered by Swansea University Medical School and even happier when I got accepted.
During my course, I gained an extremely valuable learning experience as well as the satisfaction of advancing my knowledge and research skills.
The tutors were super helpful, and I will always cherish all our academic discussions as well as our friendly chats."

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/scholarships:
We understand that the cost of your studies is one of the most important factors when deciding on a postgraduate degree.
That's why we made over £12 million available in postgraduate scholarships last year.
Explore your options today:
Postgrad Solutions is offering five bursaries worth £2,000 each.
Find out more and check your eligibility on their website .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-university:
Swansea University is a research-led university that has been making a difference since 1920.
Our diverse and welcoming community thrives on exploration and discovery, with a balance of excellent teaching and research, alongside a superb quality of life.
Our commitment to research with real-world benefits has led to 86% of the University’s overall research being rated world-leading or internationally excellent in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
Swansea University was ranked Welsh University of the Year in The Times Good University Guide 2025.
The proportion of graduates in employment, study and/or other activities is 94% (HESA 2024).
Students who study here enjoy, are inspired and they achieve – having a greater chance of securing excellent employment prospects.
Our stunning waterfront campuses make us a desirable location for students and staff from around the world, and our multicultural community provides a global perspective, enabling those who join us to develop skills and knowledge that set them on successful and enriching careers.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/contact-admissions:
If you have a postgraduate enquiry please contact us at:
Visit our postgraduate 'Apply' pages for information on the application process
A-Z of our courses
A-Z of our programmes

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/postgraduate-prospectus:
Rich Text format 2024: Swansea University PG Prospectus 2024

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international-students:
By studying at Swansea University you’ll become part of a world-class research institution with grand ambitions.
Not only will you receive an outstanding learning and teaching experience with a distinct emphasis on employability but you’ll also fall in love with the city.
Swansea University welcomes students from all around the globe.
Each of us is different, we come from different countries, study varied courses and have distinct hobbies.
Regardless of our differences we all find our space at Swansea.
We make it our home away from home.
See the stories of our international students and find out why they chose to study with us.
Get in touch via our enquiry forms!
Undergraduate Study
Postgraduate Study

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international-students/international-student-courses:
Swansea University has a broad range of degree programmes for international students to consider.
This section will guide you on how to search through our courses and submit a successful application.
Entry requirements for individual courses can vary widely.
If you are currently studying towards non-UK qualifications or hold a non-UK qualification you must obtain a suitable equivalent for entry onto our courses at Swansea University.
All our minimum entry requirements and relevant country information can be found on our individual country pages , or alternatively you can download our complete global lists for postgraduate study:
If your country is not listed and you are unsure if you qualify to study with us, you can contact the Admissions Office .
PLEASE NOTE: Applicants for PhD/EngD/ProfD/EdD - to support our commitment to providing an environment free of discrimination and celebrating diversity at Swansea University you are required to complete an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Monitoring Form in addition to your programme application form.
Please click the following link to complete your Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Monitoring Form (online form).
A step by step guide to how to submit your application and what happens next.
How to Apply - International Students
If you do not meet the academic requirements for our Undergraduate and Postgraduate programmes, do not panic!
You have the option of taking a Foundation, Integrated Year One or Pre-Masters programme at The College , Swansea University which will then lead into a Swansea University degree.
All students applying to Swansea University need to demonstrate they have a sufficient level of language ability to study their chosen course.
English Language requirements are shown on each course page, so we encourage you to check these first before applying.
We have a range of guidance on our English Language Requirements pages, including requirements for students from Majority English Speaking Countries and Approved Tests.
While in most cases there are a number of ways students can demonstrate their English skills, some international students on a Student Visa require an IELTS for UKVI .
If you need to improve your English Language level, we have a dedicated English Language Training Service (ELTS) that can help you get to the standard you need before starting your chosen degree.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international-students/international-student-courses/how-to-apply:
We are pleased to see that you are now ready to apply for a course at Swansea University.
This section will help you submit your application and then give you advice on what you should expect next.
Once you have read the guidance on this page and you have selected your perfect course, you are ready to apply.
Find your course and apply
Apply via UCAS
Take a look at our Courses and Entry Requirements page for more information.
We have a range of guidance on our English Language Requirements pages, including requirements for students from Majority English Speaking Countries and Approved Tests .
While in most cases there are a number of ways students can demonstrate their English skills, some international students on a Student Visa require a specific test called an IELTS for UKVI .
Apply to us Directly
Choose a Course Your starting point to gaining a place at Swansea University is to choose what course or subject you wish to study from our Course Pages or Prospectus.
Make an application Apply online using the Learner Gateway Application Portal .
Our application system is free and you can save your application before submitting.
Throughout the process you will be given guidance on how to complete the form.
Keep Track of your Application With the 'Learner Gateway' Application Portal you can view the progress of your application system.
On applying, you will be given a unique reference number, which you can then use to load a saved application form.
An uncompleted application can be returned to up to 1 month after you started it.
If you have applied online you will receive regular e-mail updates on what stage your application is at, e.g.
when your application has arrived, when it has been forwarded to a departmental admission tutor, when the department has made a decision about your application and when the decision letter has been sent.
Choose a Course Your starting point to gaining a place at Swansea University is to choose what course or subject you wish to study from our Our Courses page or our Prospectus.
Make an application When applying for a postgraduate degree be sure to include the following:
Apply online using the Learner Gateway Application Portal .
This option is ideal for all postgraduate candidates, with the exception of our Postgraduate Legal Practice Course, Law and Legal Practice, LLM and Professional Legal Practice, LLM programmes.
To apply for the above Law programmes, please go to: www.lawcabs.ac.uk .
Please click the following link to complete your Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Monitoring Form (online form)
If you have any queries about how to apply feel free to contact us in the Admissions Office.
Upon receiving your online Application form we will send you a confirmation email or letter outlining your application and the timescale of a decision.
Keep Track of your Application With the  'Learner Gateway' Application Portal you can view the progress of your application system.
On applying you will be given a unique reference number, which you can then use to load a saved application form.
Your application, whilst being completed, can be saved at various points before being submitted; an uncompleted application can be returned to up to 1 month after you started it.
If you have applied online you will receive regular email updates on what stage your application is at e.g.
We will acknowledge receipt of your application via email within 2 working days.
If you have not sent all your supporting documents with your application, please do so as soon as possible so that your application can be considered and a decision made on whether to offer you a place.
Please quote your Swansea student number in all correspondence with us.
Your application will be considered “complete” once your supporting documentation is received and will be considered by our Admissions tutors.
Our decision:
Following consideration by Faculty Admissions Selectors, you will be informed whether:
You will receive either a conditional or unconditional offer from us, or we will inform you that we are unable to offer you a place.
We will notify you of our decision by email.
Taught Master's applications: Once we have received all the necessary supporting documentation, we aim to notify you of our decision (or issue an invitation for interview) within 5 working days from the date we acknowledge receipt of your application.
Research degree applications: we aim to make a decision within 4 to 6 weeks, depending on the additional information we require (for example, further details of your research proposal).
Interviews: The majority of programmes do not require an interview as part of the selection process.
If an interview is required, the purpose and format will be communicated to you by the Faculty so you know what to expect and what role this plays in the overall selection process.
A few Masters’ courses (specifically in the Department of English Language and Literature) require candidates to provide additional written work to supplement an application.
Please click here for information about accepting your offer .
As part of the international admissions process from September 2024 entry onwards, you may be asked to verify your academic qualifications.
Information will be provided in your formal offer of admission.
You will complete this step by accessing the University’s Qualification Check portal .
There is a fee to use this service (usually £40.00).
Once the verification is complete, Swansea University will be able to see the outcome of your check and you will automatically receive an ‘ImVerified wallet’ which digitally stores your qualification verifications.
This can be shared with all future employers or any other Universities to which you apply.
If your school/college/university is not listed on the portal, please let us know (undergraduate applicants – admissions@swansea.ac.uk ; postgraduate applicants – postgraduate.admissions@swansea.ac.uk )
Qualification Check User Guide for Applicants
You should try to meet all the conditions of your offer by August if you are applying for entry in September (this is particularly important for international students due to visa application deadlines).
This means that you will need to supply the required documentation demonstrating that you have met any outstanding conditions (e.g.
academic requirements, English language and/or references) as detailed in your offer letter.
We will send you a reminder prior to this deadline.
Please note, the Postgraduate Taught document deadline is 21st August - all conditions must be met by this date
Applicants for taught programmes in Childhood Studies will require a satisfactory Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) check.
International students may be asked for a police check from their home country instead of a DBS check.
Please note that we will require a copy of your disclosure certificate or police check before you can be considered to have completed this condition and allowed to register with the University.
Some international students who are offered places to study on full-time programmes in certain science/engineering related subjects will also require an ATAS Clearance Certificate before applying for their student visa.
Instructions on how to apply for an ATAS Clearance Certificate will be included with your offer letter.
You are encouraged to contact the Admissions Office at any time during the application process if you have any questions.
Please remember to quote your Swansea student number in all email correspondence.
In order to receive a formal Unconditional offer statement, or, for international students a letter (known as a ‘Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies’ (CAS) statement) which will enable you to apply for a Student Route Visa (if applicable) you will need to:
If you are unable to meet all the conditions outlined in our offer letter, or you wish for personal reasons not to take up our offer, you can request that our conditional offer be deferred until a later date.
Applicants may be allowed to defer their place once, if further deferral is needed then a new application must be made.
New international students will have a space in University accommodation guaranteed if:
Places will be allocated on a date order basis until all vacancies are filled.
You can apply for accommodation as soon as you have your student number (you are given this when you submit an application to one of our degrees).
All international students must pay a minimum deposit of £4,000* to secure their place and obtain a CAS statement (*Exceptions apply, please see our deposit deadline FAQ for more details).
This deposit is refundable only in the event of the Government refusing to grant a UK visa under the Points Based System of Immigration, or a student failing to meet the University's entry requirements.
This deposit will count towards the payment of tuition fees and is not an additional sum charged above the tuition fee quoted in offer letters.
The remainder of the Tuition fees can either be paid in full before enrolment or can be paid in two instalments.
50% of your annual tuition fee must be paid at or before enrolment and the remaining 50% should be paid no later than February (Postgraduate Taught Programmes) or April (Postgraduate Research Programme Students).
For more information on how to pay your tuition fees, see the Finance pages .
For more information about deposit payments please see the Deposit Deadline FAQs
After you've booked flights to the UK, you will need to plan how to get to your accommodation in Swansea.
If possible, plan your journey so that you arrive during the day rather than late at night.
Remember to allow time for any delays and queues at immigration control when making your travel plans.
Further information about travelling to Swansea can be found in our International Students' Guide: UK Travel and Accommodation.
Details of enrolment are sent out to new students from mid-August onwards.
Here is the link for joining your course: https://www.swansea.ac.uk/enrolment/
The University welcomes applications and enquiries from all people regardless of age, race, ethnic or national origin, religious or political beliefs, gender, sexual preference, marital status, family responsibility, and physical or sensory disability, unless these activities are unlawful or contrary to University policy.
The University treats all applicants on their individual merits and welcomes applications from candidates with a range of qualifications

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international-students/my-finances/international-scholarships:
We are proud to continue our commitment to providing prestigious scholarship opportunities to students from across the world.
With a range of international scholarships available, please consult the information below for eligibility criteria.
An international scholarship at Swansea University provides more than a source of funding.
You will have access to a number of exclusive scholarship-holder events including specialist senior networking opportunities whilst celebrating your success.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international-students/my-country:
Swansea University is dedicated to supporting its international students and community.
If you are a student from one of the countries/regions in the table below, you can access a page with information about entry requirements and funding, plus find the contact details of our staff who travel regularly to your country/region.
If your country/region is not listed, please email the International Office.
If your country is not listed, you can view all our entry requirements on Courses and Entry Requirements for International Students webpage.
Be sure to get in touch if you can’t find the information you are looking for or if you need any help.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/visa-advice:
The main VISA Advice (formerly known as International@CampusLife) team remit is to provide services as fully trained immigration specialists.
However, we will try and assist with general queries about being an international student in the UK that you might have and which are not covered by other specialist team at the University.
We have collated some International Students Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) , so please check there first if you are looking for specific information.
If you do not know which University team to contact for help with your query, please ask us and we will try and get you to the right department or information as quickly as possible.
You may like to watch these videos below.
These will explain all about the VISA Advice team (formerly known as International@CampusLife) in more detail.
Introducing International@CampusLife - A summary of the services we offer
All About International@CampusLife - A webinar with detailed useful advice
It is important to the VISA Advice team (formerly known as International@CampusLife) that we are available to support as many students as possible, as quickly as we can.
The VISA Advice team run multiple weekly online Live Chats and In-Person Drop-Ins .
We have a comprehensive website that provides detailed information about a variety of immigration topics.
If you have an urgent complex query, please email us , being sure to include your student number and as much detail as possible in your email (including copies of any visas).
Emails are answered in the order received.
We cannot offer an on-demand telephone or individual appointment service, although an Adviser will arrange a phone call or appointment if they think it is the best way of helping you.
Sending multiple communications about the same thing causes delays in our response to you and your fellow students - we appreciate your support and understanding.
Live Chat for Quick Queries
Live Chat is available at set times on:
Drop-In Sessions: Our drop-in sessions are for Quick Queries, no appointment necessary.
However if demand is very high please be aware it may not be possible to meet with an adviser on the chosen date/time.
We will always provide an alternative way to contact the VISA Advice team (formerly known as International@CampusLife) to discuss your query or we may invite you to attend a different drop in session.
VISA Advice Team Quick Query Drop-ins :
Thursday 28th:    10:30 - 12:30
Thursday 4th:      10:30 - 12:30
Thursday 11th:      10:30 - 12:30
Tuesday 16th:        10:00 - 12:00 Thursday 18th:      10:30 - 12:30
Please note that week commencing 22nd September, there will be no drop in service available as VISA Advice will be assisting at Right to Study.
Should you have any queries during this time, please email us.
Our GO!
Team run social activities and monthly trips throughout the year which are open to all Swansea University students and we hope you will participate.
We actively encourage people to engage with these no matter where in the world they are from.
Some activities are designed with families in mind, so if you have your family with you, please look out for those on our Events pages and via your student email.
The Welcome Activities and GO!
Social sections of our web pages has further information.
If you would like to help us deliver some social activities, you are able to do so whilst gaining valuable employability skills by becoming a GO!
Team member.
Information about the GO!
Team, as well as other volunteering opportunities, can be found via DISCOVERY Student Volunteering Service and in the Volunteering Opportunities section here .
VISA Advice Statement of Service English
VISA Advice Statement of Service Welsh
CampusLife Privacy Statement

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/goglobal:
Whether you are a Swansea University student thinking of spending some time abroad, or a student from overseas looking to spend a semester or year at Swansea on exchange or as a visiting student, the Go Global Team can help you navigate the options, requirements, paperwork and questions that you will undoubtedly have.
Choose from the options below and begin your journey with us...

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/english-language-training-services:
At ELTS, we provide high quality English language training and offer a variety of English as a Foreign Language (EFL), English for Academic Purposes (EAP), and English for Specific Purposes (ESP) programmes, as well as Cambridge CELTA teacher training courses.
We also offer exam preparation and short courses.
We work hard to enable every student to develop and achieve their full potential.
Call us: +44 (0)1792 295391; Email us: elts@swansea.ac.uk
If you have any questions about your application or ELTS in general, you can pop along to one of our weekly Zoom sessions, now running on Tuesday mornings at 11am.
Swansea ELTS has been BALEAP inspected and accredited since July 2015.
Swansea ELTS has been inspected and accredited by The British Council.
We are a member of English UK, the world's leading language teaching association.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-college:
The College is Swansea University's dedicated international pathway provider offering a wide range of Undergraduate and Postgraduate pathway options to students from all over the world.
Our courses are delivered on-campus by an expert team of academics and progression to Swansea University is guaranteed upon successful completion of one of our courses.
Students at The College are Swansea University students from day one and enjoy beachside learning and living facilities, access to all Swansea University support services (in addition to those offered by us) and the opportunity to study in a truly diverse and international environment with the chance to meet students from all corners of the map.
You can explore our available courses below to find out more!
If you are a Home (UK) student, you can find information on Swansea University's Foundation programmes here:
Please note that applications for these programmes are via UCAS and will be processed by the University.
If you are looking for some key information about learning and living with us at The College in a more bitesize format then download our TCSU 2025 Mini Guide .
Full of useful information about everything from location to entry requirements, this guide is a great resource to have handy.
Find out more
The College, Swansea University Bay Campus Fabian Way Swansea SA1 8EN
Current and Past Students:
T: +44 (0)1792 602 888 E: the-college@swansea.ac.uk
Prospective Students:
E: the-college-enquiries@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international/contact-us:
Who you should contact will depend on what you are trying to find out.
Below we have a range of contacts depending on the nature of your enquiry.
If you are interested in studying with us and not sure what to do next, contact our enquiries team.
Email: international@swansea.ac.uk
If you have already made an application and want to enquire about the status of your application, you should contact the Admissions team .
Be sure to have your unique application number to hand when you get in touch.
You can also take a look at the admissions pages for further information.
Email: international.admissions@swansea.ac.uk
Email us: iro@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/student-life:
Whether you’re a sports fanatic, culture vulture or outdoor adventurer, you’ll find plenty to keep you busy between lectures.
Think 120 societies , 50 sports clubs and 12 months of must-see events.
Whether you want to get into media, pick up a new hobby or have your voice heard on something that matters to you, there’s a way for everyone to join in.
Chat to our students about studying at Swansea.
Use our enquiry form
Find out how here

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/why-study-in-swansea:
You've read all about the award-winning teaching and world-class research that happens at Swansea University, now it's time to discover the city - we really do have it all!
From Mumbles to the Maritime Quarter, discover a city with plenty of charm and bags of character.
It's quick and easy to get where you need to be especially with the Unibus and our popular Swansea University Cycle Hire Scheme .
With only around 300,000 residents, Swansea isn't the biggest city this side of the Severn, but she's got a big personality!
From its humble beginnings in the copper industry, this little port city has flourished into a vibrant multicultural centre boasting metropolitan amenities amidst stunning natural landscapes.
Whether you like to explore the outdoors, take in a bit of culture, or anything in between, Swansea has a little something for everyone.
What does 'the Swansea Feeling' mean to you?
Hear what it means to Lanvell here
No matter how you get here, you'll feel at home.
Swansea has an energetic music scene which continues to grow.
The city boasts a variety of music venues and plays host to music festivals and events throughout the year, including the Students' Union Summer Ball (definitely not one to miss!).
Swansea's newest addition is a 3,500-capacity arena in the heart of the city which offers entertainment ranging from music to comedy, to west-end shows.
Swansea is a vibrant centre for art and culture.
Wander around the Glynn Vivian in town or visit the Taliesin Arts Centre on Singleton Campus.
Literature lovers should pay a visit to local boy Dylan Thomas' home too.
No cultural tour is complete without tasting a bit of local life!
Follow Wayne and Robyn on their gastronomical journey through Swansea's finest eats on Foodie Fridays .
Your Student's Union will make sure you get the most out of campus life!
At JC's you can watch big-screen matches, do the weekly pub quiz or take part in the open mic night on Tuesdays.
If you're on Bay Campus, you'll never miss a match at Tafarn Tawe , but let's not forget the Sunday night pub quiz or theme nights either!
Want to get the low down on student life ?
Speak with one of our friendly student ambassadors:
Get involved!
Meet new friends and try new things with nearly 50 sports clubs and over 150 societies offered at Swansea University.
Catch a wave on one of our 3 blue flag beaches, cwtch* up next to a cosy beach fire, or explore the countless hills and valleys of Bannau Brycheiniog.
If you're one for adventure there's one around every corner in Swansea!
Follow the adventures of our student bloggers as they showcase their favourite outdoor Swansea spaces .
*Cwtch a national favourite meaning "cuddle".
Find your perfect accommodation
Join our sporting community
Come and see for yourself!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/our-student-stories:
There are so many students just like you at Swansea University.
Read their stories below to discover what the student experience is really like.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/life-on-campus:
Swansea University spans two stunning campuses at each end of Swansea’s waterfront.
Singleton Park Campus is set in mature parkland and botanical gardens, overlooking Swansea Bay beach.
Bay Campus is located on the beach on the eastern approach into Swansea.
Our multicultural dual-campus provides lots of opportunities for students, staff and the community and the friendly and relaxed atmosphere is often characterised as the “Swansea experience”.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sport:
Here at Swansea University, we believe in the power of sport to improve lives and build communities.
We champion sport for all and aim to offer our students and staff a wide range of opportunities to get involved in sport and physical activities that will help them perform at their very best.
Whether you are new to sport and physical activity or you're a budding elite athlete, here at Swansea you'll find the right opportunities for you.
Our Get ACTIVE programme offers activities at beginner level to get you started if you're not ready to join one of our 56 sports clubs.
However, if you fancy some fun and friendly competition, you can check out our Social Leagues .
If you're looking to compete at a higher level, we offer competitive, as well as recreational club sport , and top class high performance programmes in certain key sports.
View Our Sport Strategy
Learn more here

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sustainability/get-involved:
Here at Swansea University, we know that university life is more than just study.
That is why the Sustainability Team work hard to offer you lots of different opportunities to GET INVOLVED with our sustainability work.
By coming along and taking part in our events and activities, not only will you help us improve our environmental and social credentials, you'll also get the opportunity to meet new people, improve your employability and raise your awareness of today’s most pressing issues.
How would you like to win prizes for looking after your wellbeing, making sustainable choices and helping to tackle the climate emergency?
As a university, we’re committed to reducing our impact on the environment and we want to reward staff and students that help us achieve our goals.
That’s why we’ve re-launched our current SWell programme to both staff and students to make an even bigger impact and to achieve commitments made in our Sustainability & Climate Emergency Strategy .
SWell is a website and app where you can earn ‘Green Points’ by reporting what positive actions you’re taking; whether that’s supporting wildlife, choosing a low carbon transport type or looking after your mental wellbeing.
Make sure you sign up to support your Faculty or PSU in competing with other University departments, and work as a team to top the leader board.
The more Green Points you earn, the more likely you are to win a prize!
Watch a short video that explains more about how SWell works here.
Each month we’ll give away 20 x £10 vouchers to the top SWell performers, with voucher options including; Just ONE TREE , National Book Tokens , M&S , Sports Centre , Odeon Cinema , the SU and Root .
We’ll also reward the top points earning staff and student teams with a £500 charity donation at the end of the academic year, which can be chosen from; Platfform , The Wildlife Trust , Goleudy , Discovery and Fareshare .
We organise various events and activities throughout the year for students and staff to get involved with.
These range from beach cleans, weekly conservation volunteer sessions, led bike rides, workshops, nature walks and growing food on campus, to name but a few!
Students and staff can find out what's going on by visiting our Eventbrite page for more information and to book onto events.
Students and staff can also join our Crymlyn Burrows Conservation Volunteering group on WhatsApp , you can request to join by emailing Sustainability@swansea.ac.uk .
Looking for a breath of fresh air, light exercise, and a chance to make a real difference?
Come along to our monthly beach clean and help us keep Crymlyn Burrows special!
This unique nature reserve, right next to Bay Campus, is of national importance for its diverse wildlife.
Unfortunately, litter washes up with every tide, and without our help, it stays there indefinitely.
Beach cleans are not just about tidying up—they’re a great way to appreciate this beautiful environment, unwind in the fresh air, and leave the area better than you found it.
Tyfu Tawe, our student and staff gardening project has raised beds on both campuses for growing vegetables and herbs.
As well as teaching gardening skills and giving the chance to meet likeminded people, the produce grown is donated to our termly Community Fridge events.
Monthly, accessible, lunchtime induction sessions are held throughout the year and are open to all, meeting at 1pm on the second Tuesday of each month at Singleton Campus between Horton and Penmaen, and on the second Thursday of the month at the raised beds next to Y Twyni at Bay Campus.
Do you have a sustainability initiative or would you like to run an event that promotes sustainability, zero carbon, biological diversity, or environmentally responsible behaviours?
Student societies and members of staff can apply to the Sustainability Team for Green Grant Funds of up to £250 for sustainability related projects.
If you are a student looking for a graduate job?
Want a work placement?
Or need a part-time job?
Visit My Uni's pages here where there are opportunities to view green jobs and to pursue a fulfilling career in the green industry sector.
There are plenty of Sustainability-minded Students' Union Societies that you can get involved with:
Conservation Ecology Society
Swansea Action for Sustainable Healthcare (SWASH)
Gardening Society
Tree Society
VegSoc
Geoscience Society
Circular Economy Society

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cultural-institute:
Championing arts and culture for all, nurturing partnerships, enhancing student experience.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/student-life/susu:
The SU is a student-led organisation, which means we’re here to stand up for our members.
As a Swansea Uni student, you're automatically a member of the SU, so you’re a part of our great, big, diverse community!
Through us, you can join societies and sports clubs, get free support from our Advice Centre , get some cheap food and drinks in our bars, and come to all the best events of the year.
We have six elected Full-Time Officers, who are students elected by their fellow students every year to represent you when it comes to all things Uni-related.
They make the University aware of issues important to you, run campaigns to celebrate our student community, and fight your corner.
So if you’ve got any questions for them, hit them up.
Basically, our mission is to give you the best experience possible while you’re a student here and to give you all the opportunities possible to succeed in what comes after you leave us.
My role as President of the Students' Union encompasses various responsibilities.
Primarily, I take the lead in democratic procedures and am the main point of contact for university-related matters serving as the primary liaison between the SU and the University, ensuring the fair representation of all students.
I also oversee both full-time and part-time officer teams and chair the SU's Executive Committee, which holds significant decision-making authority within the Union.
Additionally, I also chair the Trustee Board consisting of 9 Trustees, who possess the ultimate decision-making powers within the SU.
My previous role at Swansea University was working as a Student leader, introducing young adults to HE (higher education) and helping them develop themselves to achieve their goals and grow holistically.
If you want to get in touch with me, or any of the Full-Time Officer Team, drop us an email at fto@swansea-union.co.uk .
Full-time Officers at the Students’ Union represent students when it comes to all things about University life.
Every year as a student at Swansea you will have the opportunity to stand for one of the Full-Time Officer positions.
A democratic vote takes place every March and the Full-time Officers start their roles in the Summer ready to tackle the new academic year in September.
It’s simple.
If you are elected and you have yet to complete your degree, you can take a year out of your studies to do the job.
If you are elected and you are in your final year of study at the time, you can stay in Swansea for another year to do the job, lucky you!
The Full-time Officer team are the voice for students and take your feedback right back to the University and make sure something gets done about it.
Keep an eye out on the Students’ Union Facebook for information about the upcoming elections and how you can get involved.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/freshers:
When you first arrive at Swansea, there’s a chance that you won't know anyone.
Don't worry - you're going to meet loads of new people.
You’ll have the opportunity to sign up to a sports club or society  - it's the best way to meet like-minded people.
Our advice is to join as many as you can to begin with!
If you're staying in halls, get to know your flatmates.
And don't forget, when you start your course, you're going to meet even more people with the same interests as you.
Get organised for your arrival with our handy guide on MyUni

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/student-services:
For many people, university is a place to make lifetime friends, gain a wealth of experience, get a great education and develop skills for employment.
It may be daunting to start with, but there is plenty of help and support available to you.
The most important thing is to seek information, advice or support whenever you need it.
Everyone needs help sometimes and we have a team of experts on hand to help you work through any difficulties.
We aim to provide integrated, professional, student-centred services which offer information, advice, guidance and support to enable every student to develop and achieve their full potential.
To serve all students through practicing excellence in our support and training provision.
We will strive to ensure that every student has the opportunity to achieve their full potential and contribute to all aspects of life, from pre-application to post graduation in line with the University’s mission.
We will achieve our mission by fostering a professional, collaborative, caring and unique student experience.
Student Services staff will strive to provide quality, coordinated services that are student focussed and integrated with those of the wider community.
This will be achieved through our commitment to equality, diversity, and sustainability and by being responsive to change through investing in and utilising the skills and knowledge of our staff.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/library:
Swansea University Libraries and Collections provide high-quality information services for all students and staff, as well as the public, constantly developing these services to support the University's learning, teaching, research and corporate activities.
The Libraries and Collections Services offer a comfortable, spacious environment to study and research in, and our friendly, professional staff provide a continually expanding range of support, training and subject services to ensure that all Library users make the best use of resources available.
To reserve a spot in the library, whether it be for group study, individual study or a guaranteed PC, view our availability and book here.
Everything you need to know about borrowing resources is here whether you want books, journals, films or even a temporary laptop while you study in the library.
Here is information about borrowing and renewing for non-student visitors.
Here is some information about our various sites as well as policies and procedures.
Our blog contains useful library tips.
Subscribe and get notified for new posts.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/campuslife:
We understand that in order for you to enjoy your time at university to its full potential, we need to support you in a variety of ways.
We offer free, impartial, non-judgemental advice and support services to all students in a relaxed, friendly and confidential environment.
Come and see us for specialist support with Faith, Community, International, Money, Participation and Welfare.
Students inspired and supported to engage in a transformative university experience that shapes their evolving understanding of self, community, and their contributions in a global society.
Our mission is to educate students, engage the community, and enrich the Swansea University experience.
We do this by providing a series of advice, guidance and support services that assist and empower students to achieve their highest educational potential; remove barriers to learning; strengthen readiness to learn; and sustain a safe and healthy Swansea University community.
CampusLife operate to a defined set of Core Values and it is an expectation that our staff are able to demonstrate a commitment to these values from the point of application through to the day to day delivery of their roles.
Our Values are:
We are Professional
We take pride in applying our knowledge, skills, creativity, integrity and judgement to deliver innovative, effective, efficient services and solutions of excellent quality.
We Work Together
We take pride in working in a proactive, collaborative environment of equality, trust, respect, co-operation and challenge to deliver services that strive to exceed the needs and expectations of customers.
We Care
We take responsibility for listening, understanding and responding flexibly to our students, colleagues, external partners and the public so that every contact they have with us is a personalised and positive experience.
CampusLife Inclusivity Statement

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/careers:
Here in Swansea we do things differently making sure that from the moment your journey starts with us, you have all the careers advice and employment opportunities under one roof.
We make sure that your learning and career development exists in tandem.
You will have the opportunity to engage with industry, undertake work experience, attend careers fairs, and much more in order that you are fully equipped for the world of work when you leave us.
To contact the Careers and Employability team about general enquiries please email: careers@swansea.ac.uk .
For our full team contact details, visit our contact Careers and Employability page .
We are accredited with the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS) , the UK professional body for careers and employability professionals working with higher education students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/academic-success:
The Centre for Academic Success is here to support you in developing your academic study skills and achieve your goals.
Are you entering university for the first time or taking the next step on your academic journey?
We can help you bridge the gap between where you are and where you need to be.
You can maximise your potential and develop confidence through a range of courses, workshops and one-to-one tutorials.
All our staff are highly qualified, with years of experience and offer friendly, professional advice and support.
Our reception is open Monday - Friday (10am-4pm)
Centre for Academic Success Reception Stable Block Swansea University Singleton Park Swansea, SA2 8PP Wales, UK
Email: academicsuccess@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/academi-hywel-teifi:
Academi Hywel Teifi is a very special institution established by Swansea University in 2010 in memory of the University's former Welsh Professor and one of the nation's greats, Professor Hywel Teifi Edwards.
The Academy is a unique organisation and the body that is greater than the sum of its parts which are three specific units:
As well as empowering the status and use of the Welsh language, Academi Hywel Teifi's vision is to support students of all ages and educational, cultural and socio-economic backgrounds to learn Welsh or develop their skills in the language.
It also works to promote the opportunities and benefits of studying through the medium of Welsh, together with presenting and celebrating its culture.
Providing education in the Welsh language is at the core of Swansea University's work and strategy because of the institution's leading role in contemporary Wales, its regional and national responsibility, and its statutory responsibility.
Find out more about Academi Hywel Teifi
The Academi's work is divided into three themes - Learn , Develop and Celebrate .
Click on the themes below to learn about the work we do.
Find out more about Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses with Welsh-medium provision, the Swansea University Branch of the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol and the opportunities available to Welsh speaking students.
Find out more about Academi Hywel Teifi's range of cultural and arts activities, as well as lifelong learning courses in the community and a regular series of lectures and public seminars.
Also learn about our innovative projects that benefit the Welsh language.
Academi Hywel Teifi is a unique institute established by Swansea University in 2010 in memory of Professor Hywel Teifi Edwards, a former Professor of Welsh at the university and one of the nation's greats.
Academi Hywel Teifi presents a variety of cultural activities and events to enrich the culture of Wales and the Welsh language as well as organising the University's presence at Welsh-medium national events.
More news here
Academi Hywel Teifi Talbot Building Swansea University Swansea SA2 8PP
Tel: +44 (0)1792 602070 Email: academihywelteifi@abertawe.ac.uk
Academi Hywel Teifi Staff
Latest news from Academi Hywel Teifi
Arwain publications

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/student-support-services:
We offer specialist advice, guidance, and support options for students experiencing challenges during their time at university.
Our services are for students experiencing emotional and personal difficulties as well as more complex long-term issues including sensory or physical impairments, long term medical conditions, specific learning difficulties (SpLD), autistic spectrum conditions (ASC), and mental health conditions; to ensure that all Swansea University students have equal learning opportunities.
Support costs
Get in touch with us

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/student-life/chat-to-our-students:
Connect with our current students and get their insights into student life at Swansea University.
Sign up to UniBuddy Chat and our friendly student ambassadors are on hand to help with any questions you may have.
If you’ve already decided Swansea is the right choice for you and you’ve received an offer to study with us, you can also start making connections with your peers before you enrol.
Unibuddy Community is a dedicated online space for you to meet people from your chosen course or subject area, start chatting with potential housemates, and hopefully make friends before you arrive.
Want to know what it’s like to study at Swansea University?
Sign up to our Unibuddy Chat platform to connect with our friendly student ambassadors – they’re here to help with any questions you might have about student life at Swansea.
If you have questions relating to the admissions process, entry requirements, or your application to study at Swansea University, please get in touch with our Enquiries Team , who will be able to assist you.
Unibuddy Community is a safe, official space for you to connect with other new students before arriving in Swansea.
Offer holders for January 2025 entry can sign up below
Join our Undergraduate and Postgraduate Community - January 2025
Check out our Unibuddy student blogs for real life insights and experiences across a variety of useful topics.
Created by current students from their own perspectives, they’re packed with excellent tips and advice for making the most of your university experience.
Unibuddy Community is a safe, official space for you connect with other new students before arriving in Swansea.
You can:
You can access Unibuddy via the mobile app or desktop using your internet browser.
You will be asked to create an account using the email address you used for your application to study at Swansea University.
Join our Undergraduate Community - September 2024
Our Postgraduate Community for September 2024 entry will be published at a later date.
Unibuddy Community provides a safe space for you to meet and interact with other new students joining Swansea at the same time as you.
Chats are monitored for safeguarding and data security.
To ensure everyone can enjoy Unibuddy Community, you are asked to agree to the following rules:
By logging onto the community and joining the chat, you agree with the rules listed above.
If you break one of the rules above, you may be removed from the Unibuddy Community platform.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international:
Swansea University has an international reach with staff, students, partnerships and research links stretching across the globe.
Our campuses are vibrant and diverse with staff and students from over 130 different countries making up our friendly community.
How to find us
Contact Us - International Students

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research:
In the latest Research Excellence Framework 2021 assessment, 86% of the University’s overall research was rated as world-leading or internationally excellent - up from 80% in the previous REF exercise in 2014.
We continue to be recognised for the impact of our research which makes real, positive difference to the lives of people across the world.
86% of our research, judged by a panel of REF experts, i s making outstanding and very considerable impact in terms of reach and significance, at a local, regional and global level.
91% of our research environment is classed as world- leading and internationally excellent (and an increase in 6% points from REF 2014).
This reinforces that Swansea University is an outstanding environment to conduct research as a student or an academic, and that our research makes a real difference in the world.
We work with partners and collaborators across the globe.
With a history of inspiring research we are delivering significant, sustained, valuable economic and societal impact in Wales, UK and internationally.
Find out more about our REF 2021 results here
25 August 2025
20 August 2025
14 August 2025
15 August 2025
We have a thriving research student community and are here to support your research journey.
Through collaboration with other leading universities and industry partners, we are developing the next generation of pioneering researchers in future-facing disciplines, from AI and materials manufacturing, to social sciences and policy.
Find out more about our Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) and Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs).
We offer a number of scholarships and awards f or students pursuing PhD, MPhil, MRes or Master's by Research studies and training and development for research students and supervisors

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-with-us:
Our commitment to research with real-world benefits has seen us achieve our ambition to be a Top 30 Research University, soaring up the 2014 Research Excellence Framework league table to 26th in the UK from 52nd in 2008.
Swansea University was founded on the principles of innovation and collaboration.
By working with us your organisation can access world-leading research & development expertise, talented graduates & students, professional training and skills development, first class facilities & equipment, and a number of other commercial opportunities.
Impact
Discover more about Swansea University's research environment

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-with-us/postgraduate-research:
Swansea is home to a thriving research community combining world leading research with a welcoming, inclusive, collaborative ethos, and a focus on research which has real-world benefits.
Our postgraduate research office coordinates interdisciplinary postgraduate researcher activities and support across the university.
We work to ensure you have the best possible student experience by providing access to funding and development opportunities, providing training and resources to support you to develop your professional and research skills, and supporting student-led events and activities.
Discover the benefits of undertaking a research degree and find the programme that's right for you.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/apply:
Applications for most of our postgraduate research programmes can be made online through our 'Learner Gateway' Application Portal .
Please note that our Swansea University fully funded scholarship courses have a different application process:
https://www.swansea.ac.uk/postgraduate/scholarships/research/
Please contact the Admissions Office by email if you have any problems using the 'Learner Gateway' Application Portal.
NOTE: Applicants for PhD/EngD/ProfD/EdD - to support our commitment to providing an environment free of discrimination and celebrating diversity at Swansea University you are required to complete an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Monitoring Form in addition to your programme application form.
Please click the following link to complete your EDI Monitoring Form:
Please note that completion of the EDI Monitoring Form is mandatory; your application may not progress if this information is not submitted.
Please visit our Swansea University research scholarship web page.
Each individual scholarship advertisement outlines specific details as to how to apply.
Before applying for a scholarship, you will need to consider the following:
Application deadlines:
Please see our application deadlines page and individual scholarship advertisements for details.
Apply online
Document checklist:
Your application may be delayed if you fail to provide the following documents (where appropriate):
Detailed information can be found on our A-Z course pages .
A taught postgraduate degree is a structured degree of study consisting of a number of modules in specialist subjects which can prepare you for a particular professional career.
A research degree provides you with the opportunity to research a specific area or topic in depth.
Research degrees vary in duration.
MRes and Master's by Research degrees are typically pursued over 1 year full-time or 2 years part-time.
PhDs last at least 3 years full-time, or 6 years part-time.
UK Applicants - 15th August
EU/International Applicants - 15th July
UK Applicants - 15th November
EU/International Applicants - 15th October
UK Applicants - 15th February
EU/International Applicants - 15th January
UK Applicants - 15th May
EU/International Applicants - 15th April
You can find entry requirements for all postgraduate programmes on the individual course pages - find your course on the A-Z list of Postgraduate Research Programmes .
EU and international candidates should view our Country Specific Postgraduate Entry Requirements for all International Applicants.
If you can't find the information, or you are unclear what the entry requirements are, you can contact the Postgraduate Admissions Office by email: postgraduate.admissions@swansea.ac.uk
We do not accept this as proof of your results.
We need an official transcript from your University, which you should be able to get from your University’s Academic Office/Registry.
If it is your final transcript, it needs to state your final overall result.
We will need an official translation of your documents into English if they are not printed in English in the first place.
We will not be able to process your application until we have received a copy of your official documents and their official translation.
The original translation will be required when you apply for your Student Route Visa.
Please attach two "open" letters of support to your online application.
Please visit our research scholarships page, each individual scholarship advert outlines specific details as to how to apply.
Before applying for a scholarship please consider the following –
Q.
Do you meet the fee eligibility to be considered for the scholarship?
Many of our scholarships are open to all applicants, however, some scholarships, due to funder restrictions are only open to applicants who are eligible to pay tuition fees at the UK rate, as defined by UKCISA regulations .
Please note you will not be considered for a non-fee eligible application.
Do you meet the minimum academic entry requirements for the scholarship?
Due to strong competition, you are unlikely to be successful unless you meet the advertised degree grades.
Can I apply for more than one PGR scholarship?
Yes, please note however that new, individual applications are required, per scholarship.
Is it OK to apply for a scholarship without holding the advertised pre-requisite English Language entry requirement?
Yes, you can be considered for a scholarship without holding the pre-requisite English Language entry requirement.
If your scholarship application is successful, you will be made a conditional offer on the basis that you meet the required English Language score prior to course enrolment.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-with-us/postgraduate-research/pgrdevelopment:
We offer a comprehensive researcher development programme for postgraduate researchers (PGRs), supporting them to develop the skills, knowledge and attributes to excel in their research and future careers, whether within or beyond academia.
Our approach to PGR development
Development and training doesn’t begin and end with attending a workshop, or reading a particular resource.
We encourage our research students to view their entire degree as a continual, holistic programme of development in which they are learning to be researchers in their chosen field, developing the skills needed to complete their research project and write their thesis, as well as developing a range of transferable professional and personal attributes that will be of use in whatever they decide to do next.
Doing this means taking advantage of all the opportunities on offer, whether formal workshops and events or the informal reflections and learning that come from conversations in the lab or over coffee, and everything in between.
View and book workshops to develop the knowledge, skills and attributes you need to excel in your research degree and future career.
View the ten themes of our Training Framework.
The Postgraduate Research Office provides training for staff who are supervising research students.
All new supervisors, or supervisors new to Swansea University, will complete the course "PGR Supervision at Swansea University".
In this course, you will have the opportunity to meet other supervisors and discuss case studies and PGR processes with them, receive an overview of the essential regulations and procedures, and learn who to contact across the institution for support with different aspects of supervision.
More information on all of these courses is available from Development and Training Services (DTS) within HR.
Visit abw.swansea.ac.uk to book your place.
PAWS (Peer Academic Writing Support) provides staff and PhD students on Singleton Campus the time and place for protected writing time and support from their peers to improve their writing/encourage writing output.
We meet currently in Vivian Tower, room 813, twice a week (Monday and Friday) from 10am to 12pm to focus on our writing.
This can range from articles, grant proposals to chapters, but also includes reading, reviewing and editing as well as outlining a piece of writing.
You can work on your laptop, simply on a piece of paper or a print-out – depending on your task and way of working.
Feel free to join us on the days you can manage, and you don’t have to come for both hours if you can only free yourself for one hour.
You can find more information on our website
Please also follow us on twitter (@SwanseaPaws) for keeping updated and to get reminders of events.
For any questions you can email Jen Gatzemeier
We are looking forward to meeting and welcoming you to our group.
Email the PGR training team

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/explore-our-research:
Through identifying, developing, and combining emerging research areas, we break new ground to make space for ideas to grow, and define and accelerate areas of life changing research.
Our dynamic, supportive, and driven researchers work collaboratively across subjects, industries, and academia to become a catalyst for change and working towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for a better world.
Welcome to our podcast series ‘Exploring Global Problems’ where our academics talk about how their ground-breaking research helps to tackle a variety of global challenges.
Topics include health innovation, climate change, clean energy and human-centred digital technologies.
There are multiple ways that you can listen to, or even watch, our podcast series using your preferred podcast supplier.
Cronfa is the University's repository.
It contains journal articles, books, book chapters, research theses, conference and workshop papers, data, reports, working papers and more.
Find out more about the research being undertaken at each of the Faculties involved in Health Innovation

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-highlights:
We recognise the challenges individuals and societies face working and living in an ever-changing world.
Our interdisciplinary research, led by pioneering academics and utilising cutting-edge facilities, help people adapt to change, and improve their lives.
Through identifying, developing, and combining emerging research areas, we break new ground to make space for ideas to grow and define and accelerate areas of life-changing research.
Our dynamic, supportive, and driven researchers work collaboratively across subjects, industries, and academia to become a catalyst for change,working towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for a better world.
We are committed to playing a crucial role for sustainable development i n the region, UK and globally and are in the top ten in the People and Planet University League
Our research within health enables innovation of devices, services, and diagnoses to promote good health and wellbeing within communities and individuals globally.
Our world class research centres such as the Centre for Nanohealth and resources including the SAIL Databank promote collaboration between governments, industry, and academia to tackle and prevent diseases, reverse stigmas, and decrease pressures.
We recognise the global challenges which we all face.
Our research is finding ways to preserve and protect the world for future generations.
From running the UK’s largest seagrass restoration project, to flying high with condors in Argentina with SLAM (Swansea Lab for Animal Movement) to advancing the understanding of iceberg calving in Antarctica and creating buildings that harness and store its own energy.
Our passionate academic community are working to combat the effects of the climate emergency for the future.
We are working with both local and global communities to preserve history, influence policy and encourage open and nurturing cultures.
Our research centres such as the Centre for Digital Arts and Humanities and the Language Research Centre enable us to understand the past to influence the future.
They enable us to fulfil our ambition to create an equal, safe, and sustainable world through understanding and working together.
We understand the value of diversity across workforces, communities, and life.
It is our belief that there should be equality and justice for all.
Through our research centres we have been able to influence policies, confront contemporary challenges, and make a difference to societies across the real and digital worlds.
Our research puts people at the centre of technological advancements.
We create safer digital environments which integrate and enhance human lifestyles.
Working internationally and at some of our pioneering research centres, such as Emerging Markets Research Centre (EMaRC), Centre for Nanohealth, and CHERISH-DE, our academics are putting humans at the core of our research, outputs, and recommendations for a more inclusive and safe future.
Working with partners and experts in their field, our researchers are able to streamline and improve productivity to reduce waste and reduce outgoings within manufacturing.
Home to the Zienkiewicz Centre for Computational Engineering and state of the art facilities such as Coastal Engineering laboratory, 30m wave flume, and wind tunnel, we have invested millions of pounds to conduct meaningful research into experimental aerodynamics, computational fluid dynamics, and more.
Our research into steel has led to the development of lighter, greener, smarter steel and a cleaner production process, helping to combat climate change.
Our multi-million pound campus, home to projects such as SPECIFIC, and close to industry partners Tata Steel, has enabled us to work across disciplines to create and develop potential solutions to the climate emergency.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/explore-our-research/research-in-the-faculties:
Find out about the varied and impactful research taking place in each of the faculties:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/momentum-magazine:
Momentum is Swansea University’s research magazine, and a central resource for insight into the major research taking place across the University.
It is published in digital format several times a year and features the latest research news, case studies and interviews with Swansea University academics at every stage of their research career.
Keep up-to-date with the latest research news from Swansea University and receive the latest edition of Momentum directly to your inbox.
The newsletter is quarterly so you will receive four editions a year (Spring/Summer/Autumn/Winter).
We work with a range of people and organisations to conduct collaborative research, realise ideas, improve products, and help change the world.
Contact us to find out how we can work with you.
01792 606060
Use our form to contact us about your research

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/podcasts:
Click on the buttons below to explore each season and then listen and subscribe to the series using your preferred podcast provider.
Visit our podcast help page to find out more about how to listen.
Some really thought provoking topics (diverse range even across the two episodes I’ve listened to so far) from a range of speakers which is good to see, I hope this continues.
Hopefully the start of a long and successful series from Swansea University!
Can we trust politicians?
How do we ensure global food security?
Who is eligible to compete in elite sports?
These are the questions being answered by Swansea University academics in this 9-episode fourth season of research podcast Exploring Global Problems.
New episodes released every two weeks
6 May 2024 Season 4, Episode 1
Dr Luca Trenta discusses how some states use covert action, with a spotlight on the US Government's involvement in state-sponsored assassinations.
Spanning the time period from the Cold War through to contemporary times, Dr Trenta explores the intricate dimensions of these clandestine operations.
20 May 2024 Season 4, Episode 2
Professor Brian Garrod sheds light on the hurdles faced by neurodivergent children and their families on holiday and delves into how the tourism industry could adapt to be more accessible and welcoming.
3 June 2024 Season 4, Episode 3
Joanne Davies discusses how highly trained educators and sim technologies; high-tech mannequins and the world's largest installation of immersive wall technology simulation are advancing healthcare education.
17 June 2024 Season 4, Episode 4
Dr Gabriela Jiga-Boy explores the concept of trust.
With the danger posed by disinformation during societal crises (such as the pandemic or climate change), trust in facts and science seems more important now than ever.
Does the public trust politicians and scientific experts?
Conversely how much does the public feel trusted by those in power?
1 July 2024 Season 4, Episode 5
Dr Farooq Shah discusses the detrimental impact that insect pests have on food security and the urgent need to develop alternatives to chemical pesticides, which pose risks to human and animal health and well as the environment.
15 July 2024 Season 4, Episode 6
Dr Ashra Khanom discusses her research which aims to address the needs of people seeking sanctuary in the UK, including how they access healthcare services.
29 July 2024 Season 4, Episode 7
Dr Shane Heffernan discusses the complex issues around the eligibility criteria for transgender and DSD/intersex athletes and his research into nutraceutical alternatives to manage osteoarthritis and the impact of plant-based diets on health and performance.
12 August 2024 Season 4, Episode 8
Dr Gulzat Botoeva takes listeners on a journey into the intricate socio-economic landscape of small-scale gold mining in Kyrgyzstan's Naryn region, exploring local communities' involvement in protests against and in support of official mining companies.
23 September 2024
Season 4, Episode 9
Dr Rhian Meara , Senior Lecturer in Geography, discusses the eruption of the Eldfell volcano in 1973, on the island of Heimaey, Iceland.
The eruption is famous as the small town was saved by spraying cold sea water onto approaching lava.
Meet the host of our 'Exploring Global Problems' series, Sam Blaxland.
Sam is an Honorary Fellow at Swansea University, having been a Ph.D.
student, Post-doctoral Fellow, Tutor and Lecturer in Modern History between 2013–2022.
He now works at UCL.
Whilst at Swansea, Sam wrote a book on the history of the University to mark its 2020 centenary .
He also taught on a variety of undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Sam was born and raised in Pembrokeshire.
He is a regular contributor to the British and Welsh broadcast media and has recently appeared on the BBC News channel and BBC 1's Breakfast programme, amongst others, to discuss modern political history and contemporary current affairs.
Outside of work, he is a keen runner (everything from Saturday morning parkruns to marathons), and a fan of old-fashioned, hard-copy newspapers.
He also enjoys cooking, learning about (and drinking) wine.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/discover-our-expertise:
As a major research-led institution, we can help you problem-solve and develop & test new products and services to give you that competitive edge.
Our major research strengths include innovation in manufacturing, materials, low carbon buildings, modelling & design, medical devices & nanotechnology, software and ICT
CONTACT US BY FORM
I nformation for Journalists
Swansea University's award-winning press office can link the media to leading academics and ground breaking research
Email the Press Office
Out-of-hours Phone: +44 (0)7894 251 874
Non-media enquiries Phone: +44 (0)1792 205 678

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-environment:
The strength of our research environment, encompassing all aspects of the research lifecycle, was measured in the Research Excellence Framework 2021 in which 91% of our research environment was judged to be 4* World- leading or Internationally excellent, conducive to creating the highest quality research.
10 Units of Assessment achieved 100% 4 *world-leading or 3* internationally excellent for their environment, including Business and Management, Modern Languages and Social Work and Social Policy.
Find out more about our REF 2021 results .
Our research environment is dynamic and imaginative.
We are combining innovation and excellent facilities to encourage more work across disciplinary boundaries.
The Morgan Advanced Studies Institute (MASI)  provides a home for multidisciplinary research to flourish, enhancing our competitiveness for interdisciplinary funding streams.
At Swansea University we proudly hold the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award in recognition of our commitment to support the career development of all Research Staff.
The Swansea University Research Staff Working Group oversees the delivery of the Concordat Action Plan, to support the Career Development of Researchers.
We are committed to:
Based on valuable feedback from CEDARS 2023 and through Research Culture Cafés held across the University (attended by post-docs, technicians, academics, research enablers and PhD students) we have developed a Research Culture Action Plan to address our own issues within our research environment.
The United Kingdom has taken a significant step forward in advancing responsible research assessment with the establishment of a National Chapter of the Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment (CoARA), co-led by Swansea University.
Together with the University of Strathclyde and Loughborough University, we are working to promote systemic reform whilst reflecting on ambitions for reforming research assessment.
The Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment (CoARA) is a global initiative aimed at advancing responsible research assessment practices.
By promoting collaboration, transparency, and integrity in research assessment, CoARA seeks to drive positive change in the scholarly ecosystem.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-integrity-ethics-governance:
We are proud of our reputation for excellent research, and for the calibre, dedication, and professionalism of our research community.
We understand that integrity must be an essential characteristic of all aspects of research, and that as a University entrusted with undertaking research we must clearly and consistently demonstrate that the confidence placed in our research community is rightly deserved.
The University therefore ensures that everyone engaged in research is trained to the very highest standards of research integrity and conducts themselves and their research in a way that respects the dignity, rights, and welfare of participants, and minimises risks to participants, researchers, third parties, and the University itself.
Queries to be directed to:
Research Integrity, Ethics and research security: researchintegrity@swansea.ac.uk
Research Governance, Quality assurance and Human Tissue: resgov@swansea.ac.uk
Research Misconduct: researchmisconduct@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-impact:
Our research changes lives, drives innovation and regional growth, and is aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
It impacts on our culture and society as well as on our health and well-being, our economy and our planet.
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
Faculty of Science and Engineering
Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Science
Case Study Examples
Swansea University is fully engaged with the Research Excellent Framework (REF) and provides relevant, up-to-date information on the REF process to colleagues and external stakeholders.
The REF 2014 is the successor of the RAE 2008 and assesses research across Higher Education Intuitions (HEIs) in the UK.
Through REF, the UK funding bodies develop and sustain a dynamic and internationally competitive research sector that makes a major contribution to economic prosperity, national wellbeing and the expansion and dissemination of knowledge.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/research-environment/research-staff-development:
Swansea University is committed to the development of our research talent.
We offer a range of career development opportunities, and encourage you to explore our training services and resources to help you make the most of your time at Swansea.
We fully commit to the Researcher Development Concordat , which outlines the responsibilities of our institution, funding bodies, research leaders and researchers.
It includes reference to researchers having opportunities, structured support, encouragement and time to engage in a minimum of 10 days professional development pro rata per year.
"Working in partnership across the University to implement the Researcher Development Concordat to support our researchers to thrive and promote a positive, inclusive research culture"
Our research career development services are coordinated by a dedicated member of the Development and Training Service with additional specialist training provided by other teams across the University.
You will find a variety of careers resources created for all researchers at Swansea from PGR to senior leaders.
We are continuously sourcing, developing and adding new learning materials please see our Researcher Career Development Programme for full information.
Research Hubs offer a comprehensive and professional service for every research arm found within each Faculty.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/masi:
The First Minister of Wales launched the Morgan Advanced Studies Institute – MASI - on February 26th 2021.
We are Wales’ first Advanced Studies Institute focussed on transformative interdisciplinary research.
MASI is growing a vibrant, large-scale community, a movement with an urgent purpose to respond to the world’s most critical opportunities and challenges.
It brings people together from across all disciplines to discover and innovate processes, materials, technologies, policies and practices that will make the world more sustainable, just, well, joyful and hopeful.
MASI will help drive the University forward, serving the city, region, Wales and the world with world-class research and enterprise.
It also acts as a base-camp, gathering groups to be trained, motivated and encouraged to set their eyes on the highest of intellectual and impactful summits, preparing us to attract the significant external funding needed to be an effective agent of change.
MASI is named after the late Rhodri Morgan, former First Minister of Wales and Swansea University Chancellor whose passion for Wales and its place in the World, continues to inspire us.
MASI invests in 1-year (Basecamp) and 2-year (Summit) projects.
We welcome Visiting International Fellows and are supported by a cadre of MASI Fellows drawn from early and established career colleagues across the University.
In addition, we have curated a series of think-tanks/ thought-leader events.
Details of all of this activity can be found below.
Awarded in February 2021
Urdd National Eisteddfod
Professor Matt Jones Working with our community to nurture people and initiatives to change the world.
Senior Project Officer - Heidi Rees h.j.rees@swansea.ac.uk works to ensure the smooth running of the Institute and to promote and sustain our connections across the University and beyond.
Chris Marshall
Chris Marshall is the University's Head of Policy and Strategy.
He has a sound understanding of the University, having spent 16 years promoting its culture, history and heritage, developing its research strengths, and helping to set its strategic direction.
He has a good knowledge of the UK funding landscape and has helped colleagues to win more than £100m in research funding since 2012, including for infrastructure, capacity building programmes and interdisciplinary initiatives.
He has supported the development and introduction of innovative degree programmes, and led the delivery of the three-day, Hillary Rodham Clinton Global Challenges Summit in November 2021.
Lella Nouri Lella Nouri is a Senior Lecturer of Criminology and Programme Director of the MA in Cyber Crime and Terrorism at Swansea University.
Lella is also part of Swansea University’s Cyber Threats Intelligence Centre (CYTREC).
Lella’s work is at its heart interdisciplinary with a focus on collaboration across the Social and Computer Sciences.
Lella has strong links with local stakeholders including Counter-Terrorism police, local councils, governments as well as interested community groups.
For more information on Dr Nouri or to get in touch please visit her University staff profile.
Kelly James Kelly James is a Research Development Officer primarily supporting colleagues in the Faculty of Medicine, Health & Life Science with research and bid development, and is the institutional lead for the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC).
Kelly is passionate about cross-disciplinary research and comes from a multidisciplinary research background, having obtained her PhD on the Physics-Life Science interface.
Karl Hawkins Karl is a Professor at Swansea University Medical School and a Director of the Centre for NanoHealth.
His interests focus on translational aspects of biomedical engineering.
Karl brings experience in interdisciplinary research, working at the interface between Engineering and Life Sciences, and has established collaborations with clinicians at Swansea Bay University Health Board.
Kimberly Dienes Kimberly A.
Dienes is a Lecturer in Clinical and Health Psychology at Swansea University.
She researches biological and psychological stress sensitivity and how stress can lead to negative clinical and health outcomes.
She collaborates nationally and internationally on research projects including topics such as: risk for depression (University of Rochester, USA), allostatic load, precarity in the workplace, and relational communication (University of Manchester), the impact of engagement in nature on wellbeing (Down to Earth), visual impairment, multiple sclerosis and public views of the coronavirus pandemic (Swansea University).
She has received funding from the MRC and Public Health Wales and has published numerous articles.
She sits on the Risk Communication and Behavioural Insights (RCBI) Subgroup of the Welsh Government’s Technical Advisory Group (TAG) for COVID-19.
Thomas Reitmaier I am a Post-Doctoral Research Officer for UnMute, an interdisciplinary, EPSRC funded research project that creates novel, spoken language interaction opportunities with communities of minority language speakers who are currently digitally ‘unheard’.
I work at the beautiful Computational Foundry at Swansea University with amazing colleagues and collaborators.
I also lead on the MASI-funded international lablets programme that innovates ways of co-creating with marginalized communities in a world that has been profoundly shaped by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.
Throughout my career I draw on the skill-sets and sensibilities I developed during my PhD at the Centre in ICT for Development at the University of Cape Town: designing, developing, and evaluating new technologies that give everyday people better access, awareness, and control over the stuff that matters to them.
More information and most of my publications are available on my website.
Krijn Peters
Krijn Peters is a Professor in international development in the Department of Politics, Philosophy and International Relations.
He specialises in post-war reconstruction, transport services and rural development.
His research is applied and transdisciplinary, mainly focusing on the role of improved access and appropriate technologies to reduce rural poverty in sub-Saharan Africa.
Ian Mabbett
Ian is a professor in Chemistry and is Enterprise, Partnerships & Innovation lead for the Faculty of Science & Engineering.
Ian’s research interests started in coatings at SPECIFIC Innovation and Knowledge Centre, sanitation with BMGF and have evolved into transdisciplinary research and systems approaches to unpick global challenges including climate change.
Ian has managed major projects at the University including centres of doctoral training , the reintroduction of a chemistry department and the formation of the SUNRISE network, a global challenges research fund project creating energy positive buildings with partners across India and the Global South.
SUNRISE was a case study in OECD report ‘ addressing societal challenges using transdisciplinary research ’ in 2020.
Professor Jonathan Lazar PhD, LLM (CHAIR)
Jonathan Lazar, PhD, LLM is a professor in the College of Information Studies at the University of Maryland, where he is the executive director of the Maryland Initiative for Digital Accessibility (MIDA), and is a faculty member in the Human-Computer Interaction Lab (HCIL).
Dr.
Lazar has over 25 years of experience in research and teaching in human-computer interaction, with a focus on technology accessibility for people with disabilities, user-centered design methods, assistive technologies, web accessibility, and law and public policy related to accessibility and HCI.
Lazar has authored or edited 16 books, including Research Methods in Human-Computer Interaction (2nd edition, co-authored with Feng and Hochheiser), Ensuring Digital Accessibility Through Process and Policy (co-authored with Goldstein and Taylor), and Accessible Technology and the Developing World (co-edited with Stein).
His 17th book, Foundations of Information Law (co-authored with Jaeger, Gorham, and Greene-Taylor) will be published in Fall 2023.
Lazar has published over 200 refereed articles in journals, conference proceedings, edited books, and magazines, and has received research funding from the U.S.
National Science Foundation, the U.S.
National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR), Google, and Adobe.
He is the recipient of the 2020 ACM SIGACCESS Award for Outstanding Contributions to Computing and Accessibility and the 2016 ACM SIGCHI Social Impact Award, is a member of the ACM SIGCHI Academy, and he served as the general chair of the 2021 ACM ASSETS conference.
Professor Sarah Sharples
Professor Sarah Sharples is Chief Scientific Adviser for the Department for Transport.
She is a Professor of Human Factors in the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Nottingham and from 2018-2021 was Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Equality, Diversity & Inclusion and People.
She has led research in transport, manufacturing and healthcare, and has a particular interest in designing systems that successfully integrate novel technologies and people in complex systems in settings including rail, highways and aviation.
She was President of the Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors from 2015-16.
Professor Alan Penn
Alan is a former Dean of the Bartlett faculty of the Built Environment (2009-19), he is a founding director of Space Syntax Ltd, a UCL knowledge transfer spin out with a portfolio of over 100 applied projects per year, including whole city masterplans, neighbourhood development plans and individual buildings.
He is a member of the Space Syntax Laboratory within The Bartlett School of Architecture.
He was the Chair of the Architecture, Built Environment and Planning sub-panel 16 and a member of Main-panel C for the Research Excellence Framework 2014.
He is a founding trustee of the Shakespeare North Trust a charity which has built a new Shakespearian theatre and educational centre in Prescot outside Liverpool.
Between 2019 and 2021 he was Chief Scientific Advisor at the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government, and then the Department for Levelling-Up Housing and Communities.
He has now returned to UCL as Professor of Architectural and Urban Computing.
His research focuses on understanding the way that the design of the built environment affects the patterns of social and economic behaviour of organisations and communities.
How is it that architecture and urban design matter for those that inhabit them?
How is it that the spatial design of cities and neighbourhoods leads to the generation of cultural and community identity?
Under what conditions do vital and thriving creative communities occur, and under what conditions does crime and urban malaise develop?
In order to investigate these questions he has developed both research methodologies and software tools.
These are known as ‘space syntax’ methods.
Current research includes the development of agent based simulations of human behaviour, the development of spatio-temporal representations of built environments, investigations of urban spatial networks and the application of these techniques in studies of urban sustainability in the broadest sense, covering social, economic, environmental and institutional dimensions.
Professor Anne Boddington
Anne Boddington is Professor Emerita of Design Innovation and has held executive and senior leadership roles in Higher Education as Dean of Arts & Humanities (Brighton), Pro Vice Chancellor for Research, Business & Innovation (Kingston) and Pro Vice Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange (Middlesex).
In 2022 she concluded chairing the UK’s REF2021, Sub Panel (32) for Art & Design: History, Practice & Theory.
She has extensive experience of the governance, peer review, research evaluation and assessment and is the current Chair of the Advisory Board for the UKRI’s National Interdisciplinary Circular Economy Research (NICER) programme (£30M), deputy Chair and a trustee of the Design Council, the government’s strategic advisor for design, and a member of both the InnoHK Scientific Committee (Hong Kong) and the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications (HKCAAVQ).
As an independent consultant she now works as a strategic advisor and mentor and is committed to promoting equity, diversity, and inclusion in practice, developing effective governance, supporting career development, reducing bureaucracy, and improving organisational design, integrity, and productivity in the workplace.
Professor Peter W Halligan CBE DSc PhD FBPS FMedSci FLSW CPsychol
In 2023, Professor Peter W Halligan was awarded a CBE for his services to neuropsychology research and science in government.
An Honorary professor in the School of Psychology at Cardiff University and Bangor, Dr Halligan has qualifications in psychology, philosophy, education, and neuroscience.
His theoretical and applied advances in neurological and psychiatric disorders including visual neglect, coronary bypass surgery, hysteria, bio-psycho-social models of illness, beliefs, delusions, phantom limb phenomena, hypnosis and consciousness have received international recognition and funding.
Since 1987, Prof Halligan has published more than 250 peer reviewed journal articles, book chapters and books across a range of subject areas spanning neuro-cognitive and health care sciences and secured over 28,000 citations and a H-index of 84 (Google Scholar).
Several of his papers appeared in top rank journals in psychology, psychiatry and medicine including Nature (6 papers), Lancet (7 papers) and Nature Reviews Neuroscience (3 papers), and Trends in Cognitive Science (3 papers).
His research work has been reported widely in the national and international media including New York Times, The Times Higher, The Economist, New Scientist, Guardian, Western Mail, BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5, and BBC Radio 4.
A Fellow of the British Psychological Society, the Academy of Medical Sciences and Learned Society of Wales, Prof Halligan was awarded the British Psychological Society’s (BPS) Spearman Medal for outstanding published research in 1993, and 12 years later, the BPS Presidents’ Award for outstanding contributions to psychology.
In 2005, he was also awarded the Psychological Society of Ireland’s Special Award for outstanding contributions to psychology.
He is currently Cardiff University’s top ranked academic author in terms of science engagement readership with over 770,000 reads on the Conversation.
He has developed and commercialised several clinical tests, produced 4 educational videos, customised medical underwriting training courses and was a member of the QS World University Rankings Advisory Board from 2008 until 2021.
Following degrees at UCD, he joined Oxford’s University’s Department of Clinical Neurology in 1987 where he secured an E.
P.
Abraham Junior Research Fellow, at Green College and later an MRC Senior Research Fellowship before moving to Cardiff University as Distinguished Research Professor in 2000.
At Cardiff, he helped secured over £ 40M funding for several large university research developments including the Cardiff University Brain Repair and Imaging Centre.
In 1996, he launched the new journal Cognitive Neuropsychiatry with Prof Anthony David which has played a pioneering role in establishing and shaping cognitive neuropsychiatry, now a vibrant sub-discipline within the cognitive neurosciences.
In the same year, he was awarded one of the first Wellcome Trust Sci-Art grants on phantom limb research with artist Alexa Wright (University of Westminster) which later became the focus of a Channel 4 Equinox TV science programme in 1999.
In 2007, with Prof Dylan Jones (Head of School), he organised the commissioning of Peter Randall-Pages’s “Mind’s Eye “art work as part of the School of Psychology’s “Mind Art“project, one of the largest permanent works of art in Cardiff City sited at the main entrance to the School of Psychology, located on Park Place.
From 2010 he was Chair and Academic lead of the Welsh Crucible - a unique, all-Wales staff leadership programme for early career researchers- his team won the Times Higher Education Award for Outstanding Contribution to UK HE Leadership Development in 2013.
From 2015-2018, he served as Chief Executive for the Learned Society of Wales, Wales’s National Academy, (2015-2018) an independent pan-discipline educational charity of over 600 academic research fellows designed to provide public benefit through expert scholarly advice on a variety of national public policy issues related to research, science, engineering, medicine, arts, humanities, and social sciences.
In 2018, he was appointed Chief Scientific Adviser for Wales (CSAW).
This First Minister appointment is responsible for promoting science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects, reviewing scientific advice, and managing the Welsh Government Office for Science and Ser Cymru science capacity and engagement programmes.
Professor Dr.
(Ms.) Shashiprabha Kumar
Prof.
ShashiPrabha Kumar is currently the Chairperson, Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla; a Distinguished Fellow of Vivekananda International Foundation (VIF), New Delhi and Dean, Sri Sankaracharya Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Delhi Kendra.
Earlier she was the Founder Vice Chancellor at Sanchi University of Buddhist-Indic Studies, Madhya Pradesh and Chairperson, Special Centre for Sanskrit Studies, JNU, New Delhi.
Kumar is an acclaimed Sanskrit Scholar, well versed in classical Indian Philosophy, particularly the system of Vaiśeṣika, which was her area of Ph.D.
research at University of Delhi (1983).
During her teaching career of almost fifty years, she has supervised/guided fifty-one students for their Post-Doctoral, Doctoral (Ph.D.) and M.
Phil research.
She has also taught at the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies U.K.
in the Trinity Term, (2007) as Shivdasani Visiting Fellow.
She was offered ICCR visiting Chair at Silpakorn University, Bangkok (2008).
Her current research interests include the philosophy of Vedas and Upaniṣads, Vaiśeṣika, Mīmāṁsā and Vedānta besides Buddhism and Jainism.
She has recieved several awards including the prestigious President’s Certificate of Honour in Sanskrit, (2014); Shankar Puraskar from K.K.
Birla Foundation, New Delhi, (1999); Ramakrishna Sanskrit Award from Canadian World Education Foundation, Canada, (2003); Mahākavi Kalidāsa Sanskrit Sādhanā Puraskāra, Maharashtra Government, Mumbai, (2015) and Honorary D.Litt.
conferred by Uttarakhand Sanskrit University, Haridwar, (2016).
Kumar has thirty-seven books, more than one hundred and fifty research papers/ review articles to her credit.
Professor Tom Rodden
Professor Tom Rodden is Chief Scientific Adviser for the Department for Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) and a Professor of Computing at the University of Nottingham.
His research is highly interdisciplinary, bringing together a range of disciplines to tackle the emerging human, social, ethical and technical challenges as computing becomes a ubiquitous feature of our world and we increasingly use personal data and AI technologies.
At Nottingham, he co-leads the Mixed Reality Lab (www.mrl.nott.ac.uk) an interdisciplinary research facility and creative studio that is home to a team of over 70 researchers and media artists with strong links to the creative and cultural industries.
He founded and co-directed the RCUK Horizon Digital Economy Research Institute (www.horizon.ac.uk), a university wide interdisciplinary research centre and previously directed the EPSRC Equator IRC (www.equator.ac.uk) which showcased some of the first applications of mobile technologies to support tourism and worked with leading art groups to produce innovative award winning media performances.
Prior to joining DCMS he was Deputy Executive Chair of EPSRC where he was responsible for research strategy and acted as the UKRI lead in both AI and e-Infrastructure, driving several large scale initiatives that span multiple disciplines across UKRI.
He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a Fellow of the ACM and a Fellow of the BCS.
Kellie Beirne
Kellie is Chief Executive of the Cardiff Capital Region and a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales.
Until recently, Kellie was a member of UKRI’s Research England Board and also sits on the Board of the Prince’s Trust in Wales.
Sir Frank Atherton
Dr Frank Atherton took up post as Chief Medical Officer, Medical Director NHS Wales in August 2016.
Frank graduated in medicine from Leeds University and worked in hospital and primary care posts around the North of England for a number of years before undertaking voluntary work as a District Medical Officer in Malawi.
On his return to the UK he completed specialist training in Public Health Medicine in the Yorkshire Region and then worked on international health and development issues for WHO and the UK Department for International Development in various locations including the Former Yugoslavia, Tanzania, and Bangladesh.
From 2002 to 2012 Frank worked as a Director of Public Health in Lancashire and from 2008 to 2012 he also served as President of the UK Association of Directors of Public Health (ADPH).
In 2012 Frank moved to Canada to take up post as the Deputy Chief Medical Officer of Health in the Department of Health and Wellness, Nova Scotia.
Frank was knighted in the 2022 New Year Honours list for his services to public health following the leading role he has played in Wales throughout the Covid-19 pandemic.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/civic-mission:
Swansea University has worked with thousands of private, public and voluntary sector organisations of all shapes and sizes to drive economic growth, foster prosperity, enrich the local community and Welsh culture and, contribute to the health and wellbeing of our citizens.
As a research-led University located in one of the most deprived regions within Northern Europe (West Wales and the Valleys), regional economic and social development are a major priority that sees us working on over 30 EU-funded demand-led academic/industry collaborative projects.
Valued at over £130m, these are delivering economic and social benefits to Wales right now, driving inward investment, creating new jobs, upskilling workforces and supporting the establishment and growth or new organisations.
The following projects based at Swansea University have received funding which supports people into work, research and innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency and business competitiveness.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/swansea-science-festival:
Over 6,000 people attended the festival in 2024, which kicked off with a pre-weekend highlight at the Taliesin at Swansea University, featuring 'The Magical Mr West' and his enchanting performance, Crafty Fools.
The grand finale showcased the much-loved CBeebies TV presenter Andy Day with his exciting show, Andy’s Dino Rap.
Throughout the weekend, everyone enjoyed over 40 FREE exhibition stands and bookable shows, some demonstrating the groundbreaking research at Swansea University.
Visitors explored hydrogen energy, met robotic dogs and cats, uncovered the secrets of ancient Egyptian mummification, and even learned how to love a maggot!
Weekend highlights included a science rap workshop with presenter Jon Chase, insightful talks with TikTok star Big Manny, renowned explorer Ray Mears, and wildlife TV presenter Megan McCubbin.
Every year, the festival shows that science can be fun for all ages whether you’re making, exploring, or discovering.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/collaborate:
We work with partners of all shapes and sizes across every major sector to achieve a range of organisational goals.
Whatever your challenge, our wide range of expertise and innovative thinking can bring a fresh approach to your product, process and service development.
Read more about our expertise, facilities, partnerships and funding opportunities.
At Swansea University, we know that building partnerships and working together pays dividends.
With access to some of the brightest academic minds in the world, we have a proven track record in partnering with thousands of SME’s and public, private and third-sector organisations.
We’re ready to work with you on developing new and existing products, processes, services and experiences, applying our world-leading research, development and innovation expertise and global reach to solve major challenges.
Want to hear more?
Contact us here .
Contact our business engagement team who are happy to help
Get in touch with us now
Connect with us and other organisations from across the region
Find out more here
Enterprise and entrepreneurship are at the heart of innovation at Swansea University.
As a research-intensive institution, our vision is to be a leading global university that is renowned for empowering individuals to create a positive change in the world through enterprise, innovation, partnership, knowledge exchange, and transformative community engagement.
We seek to create a lasting legacy of impact and added value that enriches the lives of individuals and communities, now and in the future.
Swansea University’s Enterprise Strategy 2023-28 guides the growth of its entrepreneurial and commercial activities, and enables changes to its operational structures with strong alignment to recommendations given in the Independent Review of University Spinout Companies (published Nov 2023) .
Our university punches far above its weight when it comes to entrepreneurial activity, ranking 9 th in the UK on the 2024 Spotlight on Spinouts report by Beauhurst, creating over 60 spinouts since the beginning of 2011.
These companies have successfully raised £51.9m of capital via 65 different funding rounds.
In response to the Independent Review of University Spinout Companies (2023), and following the findings of an external review we commissioned into our own spinout portfolio and governance framework, Swansea is currently updating its policies and processes with the goal of substantively adopting the recommendations of the review.
Whilst already aligned to the deal terms of the spinout review and USIT guide, our update aims to achieve greater efficiency and improved timeframes through better guidance as well as more transparency and openness in processes.
We aim to adopt standardised terms through a framework approach, giving guidance on situations where things may differ.
In line with the USIT guide, we always consider each opportunity on its individual merits and as an overall deal not just focussed on any one aspect such as equity.
To read more about Swansea’s success in creating Spin-outs, you can see more data in Beauhurst’s 2024 spotlight on spinouts .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/collaborate/develop-your-projects:
From our establishment in 1920, our values have been built around our civic responsibility.
Enriching the lives and practices of our diverse community is at the heart of what we do.
Through our world leading and internationally excellent research, knowledge exchange and partnership activities we help improve and inform all kinds of organisations, individuals and groups including; charities, businesses, and Government celebrating our Welsh community and culture that we are a part of.
From short term projects to longer term research collaborations, working with world leading researchers across a variety of specialist sectors can help you develop creative solutions to organisational challenges.
At the heart of our research strength is a network of interdisciplinary initiatives, and Centres of Excellence, established to enable staff with expertise in different fields to explore radical new concepts, focusing on the innovation needs of private, public and voluntary sector organisations.
Our research is delivering significant, sustained, valuable economic and societal impact in Wales, UK and internationally.
See more about our current research and impact, and discover the range of expertise through our academics and researchers here at Swansea.
Our Impact and Engagement Team are on hand to help you at any stage of your collaborative journey and can assist you with your enquiries, and help put you in touch with the right academic or researcher depending on your project.
Find our Impact and Engagement Officers for each of our faculties, below, or if you're unsure of where your enquiry would be best placed, please email us at collaboration@swansea.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/collaborate/consultancy:
The issues encountered by partners are many fold and resolving them is what we excel at, helping you focus on, and find solutions to their problems.
Our flexibility to help you includes;
Our Strategic Partnerships Team are also on hand to support with:
Knowledge transfer between Swansea University and Industry, or other external organisations, through programmes such as Knowledge Transfer Partnership and Smart Partnership applications,
Development of long term collaborations and partnerships that enhance University based research
To contact the Strategic Partnerships Team, please contact business.enquiries@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/collaborate/funding-opportunities-:
We work with many funding bodies who can support your collaboration with us, including UK Research and Innovation, Innovate UK Smart grants and regional schemes.
Providing you with access to academic expertise and knowledge to help transform your organisation or business, solve problems, improve competitiveness, productivity & performance and ultimately transform your organisation.
Learn more .
This programme supports Welsh businesses to develop, implement and commercialise new products, processes and services.
This funding can help your business, whatever stage of the Innovation Journey you are on!
It supports research and development activity from feasibility studies, industrial research to develop proof of concept, experimental development to show research results in operation, and, finally, the exploitation stage.
Use of SMART Cymru’s ‘Innovation Voucher’ can allow you to access external expertise; if you’d like to connect with one, or more, of our academics, please get in touch.
Learn more.
Part-funded by Innovate UK, this competition is looking for game-changing and commercially viable, innovative or disruptive ideas.
Applications must be led by a UK based company and can be single or collaborative dependant on project size (must include an SME).
The Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) addresses the big societal challenges being faced by UK businesses today.
It covers the four themes of the government’s industrial strategy: clean growth, ageing society, future of mobility, and artificial intelligence and data economy.
The fund is backed by £2.6 billion of public money, with £3 billion in matched funding from the private sector.
You can apply for this funding if you’re a business, charity, or based as a research organisation.
For more information on these opportunities, please contact our Business Engagement Team who are on-hand to help you with any enquiry.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/recruit-our-talent:
We are committed to producing confident, adaptable, and highly employable graduates.
If you’re looking for someone to fill a work placement, part-time role, or graduate opportunity, we can help you find the perfect match from our talent bank of over 20,000 students.
Our dedicated team will work with you throughout the whole recruitment process to understand your individual needs and ensure you attract the best students and graduates to your organisation.
Advertise your vacancies via Employment Zone , our free digital jobs board, used by our students and graduates to search for work placements, internships, part-time roles and graduate opportunities.
Already registered?
Login here
Swansea University LINC Network
Sign up to our Business Newsletter
Contact our Business Engagement team
Privacy Policy

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/recruit-our-talent/placement-opportunities:
Swansea University provides a gateway to a bank of over 20,000 highly talented students and graduates to fill part-time vacancies, graduate roles and work experience placements.
Whether you want to develop the future of your organisation, or have a project you need completing, we have a work experience programme to suit your needs:
We arrange placements and internships for students and graduates with wide-ranging career aspirations from all disciplines and all levels.
It'll benefit your organisation Work experience can introduce you to the latest talent who can help support your organisation on short or fixed term project work.
Offering specialist knowledge and an external viewpoint and giving the business the chance to see potential employees in action before making hiring decisions.
An ideal placement would be one which:
Our funded internships are paid in line with the National Living Wage Foundation.
Internships can vary in duration, depending on your businesses needs and requirements, however, can be for a maximum of 420 hours.
Employers are welcome to provide additional funding for internships if they wish.
n.b.
Please get in touch to discuss your funding requirements before you start advertising your placements.
Funding is only available for students currently enrolled at Swansea University or those that have completed their course within the last 15 months.
Over 5000 students graduate from Swansea University each year so whether you have graduate opportunities based in Wales, the UK or worldwide, we can help you find the right candidate for your organisation.
Furthermore, alongside their studies our students are always on the lookout for suitable part-time jobs to supplement their income and help them gain experience so if you have a vacancy you'd like to share we can help.
Find out what our Enterprising Students are getting up to, and how you can get involved.
If you have any questions or want to discuss further how our talented students and graduates can make a difference in your organisation please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/recruit-our-talent/meet-our-students:
Whether you’re part of a multi-national, an Small-Medium Enterprise or a start-up we can ensure your organisation gets in front of the students and graduates you want to access and help you shape the future talent for your industry.
Find your next graduate recruits at our annual autumn Careers Fair.
Taking place over two days and two campuses, our Careers Fair attracts over 2,000 students from all our subject areas.
Next Careers Fair will take place on:
Singleton Campus : Tuesday 14th October 2025 , 10:30 - 15:00
Bay Campus : Wednesday 15th October 2025 , 10:30 - 15:00
Email our Employer Events Coordinator, Linda, for more information.
Our Part-time Jobs Fair is usally held at the start of October and early February each year.
More information coming soon.
Deliver an employer-focused event tailored to your needs that will develop a student's understanding of your sector and promote your business.
If you'd like more information or to discuss how you can engage with our talented students and graduates please contact us.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/recruit-our-talent/employment-zone:
To access our talented students and graduates create an employer profile and advertise your vacancies on Job Teaser , our free digital jobs board.
Following feedback from employers and candidates, we've updated this platform and are now partnering with JobTeaser to offer the best support to help you recruit our talent.
Job Teaser is:
Please note, we're unable to advertise freelancing opportunities on our jobs board.
If you are looking to take on a paid intern please get in touch to discuss your funding requirements in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/develop-your-workforce:
At Swansea University we offer a range of accredited and non-accredited Professional Development courses designed to develop the skills and knowledge you require to achieve your business goals.
Delivered by experts in their fields, with input from industry, our courses are flexible, allowing professional learners to study alongside their work commitments.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/develop-your-workforce/courses:
Our training courses cover a diverse range of disciplines and are flexible with the option of part-time study and work-based learning provided.
We offer ready-made and bespoke programmes that can be built around the needs of your business, delivered by experts in their field and underpinned by world-class research and teaching excellence.
If you would like any more information about any of the courses above or would like to discuss bespoke training specific to your needs please contact us .
If you are looking for a something to specifically meet your organisation's individual requirements we are more than happy to work with you to design a bespoke programme.
Get in touch
Led by Swansea University, ION leadership programmes embed permanent and positive change in leadership practice, focusing on finding real solutions for the real issues that leaders, at all levels, face every day.
Delegates develop high quality skills that aim to raise productivity in the workplace, whilst developing profitable and sustainable enterprises that enrich the lives of their employees and have a positive effect on the economy.
The programmes are delivered by business experts, and entrepreneurs at heart, and are based on practical, experiential learning with a trusted group of peers.
The M2A builds on over 25 years of experience of delivering Engineering Doctorates and was one of the pioneering centres for the delivery of the Engineering Doctorate qualifications.
The Materials and Manufacturing Academy (M2A) commenced in 2015 with the aim of creating the future leaders of Welsh industry through industry sponsored postgraduate research.
The M2A has maximised the amount of funding using European Structural Funds to successfully leverage UKRI money with the incorporation of 2 CDTs in Functional Coatings into the operation.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/commercial-and-events-services:
We have a range of event facilities and flexible meeting spaces situated at both our Bay and Singleton Park campuses so if you are looking to host a meeting, an event or a conference we can accommodate you.
We can also help you develop commercial opportunities in areas such as facilities management, sports, retail, catering, and events so would welcome the opportunity to work with your organisation on a consultancy or partnership basis.
Drawing upon expertise from within Swansea University and our partners, we will work with you every step of the way to ensure your event or your project is a success.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/commercial-and-events-services/commercial-partnerships:
We have developed long-term partnerships with various organisations over the years to deliver large events, manage facilities, or launch community initiatives to name a few.
We can partner with your organisation on large scale projects or offer a bespoke consultancy service for your organisation.
To date we have successfully supported major initiatives including:
Our Commercail Services offer consultancy and can support your organisation with:
Find out more about our expertise
See how we have worked with others

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/commercial-and-events-services/sponsorship--engagement-opportunities:
At Swansea University, our community encourages experimentation and discovery.
Over the last 18 months we have begun to build on this premise by developing ways in which your business can become a part of our University Community.
Whether it's increasing brand awareness, engaging with the local community or driving revenue, you can enhance your business objectives through sponsorship at Swansea University.
Join us for our Centenary year and partner in any one of the following ways:
We will be updating the content of our ‘Sponsorship and Engagement Opportunities’ page frequently across our Centenary Year.
For all commercial sponsorship enquiries use the button below to get in touch.
Enquire Here

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/commercial-and-events-services/supply-to-swansea-university:
Swansea University aims to ensure the timely delivery of goods and services in an efficient, effective and ethical manner, while achieving value for money.
Therefore there are a number of ways you can tender for our business:
If we are seeking commercial partners to offer services on campus (e.g.
catering, retail) these opportunities will be advertised online through the Sell2Wales portal.
For our larger value contracts our requirements are tendered directly via eTenderWales so suppliers interested in fulfilling these tenders should respond accordingly to the ‘Invitations to Tender’ placed here.
Contracts of the highest value are advertised in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Low value purchasing decisions are the responsibility of individual departments and colleges so please get in touch and we’ll try and direct you to the most appropriate member of staff.
We always welcome approaches from potential suppliers so if you have something to offer us please contact us.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/facilities-hire:
From state-of-the-art research facilities and equipment to support you in the development of new products, systems and services to dedicated space for hosting events and conferences we have the resources on both our Singleton and Bay Campuses to accommodate your needs.
We do not currently lease space on campus as a standard commercial activity.
For projects closely linked with our research and innovation activity we may be able to offer specialist spaces so if you are interested in such a collaboration please contact us .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/collaborate/facilities:
Access purpose-built, state-of-the art facilities, equipment & on-site training and technical support that can help you gain a competitive edge and enhance your innovation capabilities, whilst reducing your expenditure on in-house Research & Development.
In addition, you can access a large cultural and arts resource, including archives, libraries, museums and exhibition spaces.
Through working with Swansea University, your organisation can:
The ASTUTE Centre of Excellence at Swansea University drives innovation in manufacturing by partnering with businesses to enhance productivity and sustainability.
Since 2010, ASTUTE has supported R&D in advanced materials, computational modelling, and manufacturing systems.
Currently funded by Innovate UK and the A4I programme: https://iuk.ktn-uk.org/programme/analysis-for-innovators/ , it connects companies with Swansea University leading expertise.
Bringing together leading researchers with older people and the creative industries to co-produce products, services and environments for an increasing older population.
Providing a range of services from blue-sky research to applied R&TD, prototyping and process development, specialist services, incubation, engagement, training and access to the UK and EU innovation grants portfolio.
Equipped with modern, fully programmable recirculating aquaculture systems, CSAR carries out applied research on a diverse range of aquatic organisms, from temperate to tropical and marine to freshwater environments
A joint venture between Swansea University and Swansea Bay University Health Board.
The principles behind the development are medical research and education with improved health gain for the population.
The CIF primary role is as a centre for facilitating clinical research, the three main strands of which are pharmaceutical based clinical research in oncology, clinical application of MRI and the development of imaging based clinical pathways.
A museum centred on our Singleton Campus dedicated to the Preservation of the Collection and Collection Management of ancient Egyptian antiquities, with learning and teaching facilities integrated as part of the centre's core functions for delivering research and participation functions to children and people of all ages and abilities.
Offering a range of affordable and flexible services to support the community of South West Wales.
Their services complement those provided by the NHS and allow people to make informed and positive lifestyle choices to improve their health and wellbeing, services include: osteopathy, audiology and cardiology.
Be a member of a vibrant network of like-minded life science businesses with or without renting a dedicated office suite.
There is office space availability at Sketty Lane, Morriston Hospital and Swansea University.
If you are an individual or organisation in the sports tech, med tech, innovation or wellbeing sectors, and are interested the space, complete this form and we will be in touch.
With expertise in multi-centre phase II – III studies JCRF have a robust portfolio addressing many of the current health challenges – some assessing new medicines and others new devices.
Their studies span across diabetes, heart disease, multiple sclerosis and many other medical conditions.
The corporate memory and archive repository of Swansea University and holds material of local, regional and national significance.
The Archives selects, preserves and makes accessible to all the records of historical value created or acquired by the University.
An open access facility that works predominantly with the steel and metals industry to deliver practical innovative solutions.
A UK based, UKAS accredited, mechanical testing laboratory, which focuses on the measurement of material properties and determining performance of metallic materials/components as well as ceramic matrix composites (CMCs).
SMaRT works alongside ISM who provide academic interpretation of mechanical test data and collaborative research projects.
Offering methodological advice and support to clinical teams, both in designing new trials and in applying for grants.
Working within trial teams to develop, initiate, conduct, manage, analyse and report funded studies.
SUSiM utilises a variety of simulation-based education methodologies to support learners and teams to immerse, reflect and develop through real world scenarios within a one programme multiple sites philosophy.
Enriching the cultural lives of individuals and communities across the region,  presenting arts experiences for audiences in our spaces and on the streets of Swansea.
Get in touch with our research centres by contacting them directly through their websites which appear in the facilities information above.
Alternatively, contact our Impact and Engagement Officers who are on-hand to help you with any enquiry:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/commercial-and-events-services/meeting-conference-event-hosting:
Whether you are putting on a major conference, a convention or an exhibition in Wales, or you’re hosting a dinner or a small meeting or reception, Swansea University has an extensive range of meeting and event spaces which are all located within a short walk of Swansea’s renowned sea front.
Our range of conference and event venues in Swansea include our flagship £32million Great Hall complex on the Bay Campus, housing three large lecture theatres, a range of versatile flat floor spaces and the 700-seat Sir Stanley Clarke Auditorium, complete with flexible staging, international-standard acoustics and state-of-the-art audio visual technology.
Our affordable delegate packages offer excellent event catering and event support services from a team of experienced event professionals; and our compact campuses provide your delegates with a range of on-site amenities including cafés and bars, supermarkets, banks, a range of sporting facilities and affordable and convenient on-site accommodation from July until September.
If you wish to find out more please or enquire about holding an event at Swansea University please contact us.
View our website and find how to host your next event at Swansea University.
Click here for our website
For projects closely linked with our research and innovation activity we may be able to offer specialist spaces so if you are interested in such a collaboration please contact us.
Sign-up to our mailing list and receive news and ideas for your next meeting or event.
Parc Dewi Sant - Meeting Rooms for Hire in Carmarthen

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/contact-us:
For further information and to discuss how we can work with your organisation, please complete the enquiry form below or call us on 01792 606060.
Our team of dedicated Event Services staff with decades of experience in event management and support are more than happy to assist you with regards to events and conferencing.
If you have an enquiry, do not hesitate to email the team: events@swansea.ac.uk
Your information is held by Research, Engagement & Innovation Services at Swansea University in line with our Data Privacy Policy Your information is held to enable us to correspond with you, answer your enquiries and to provide guidance and services.
JavaScript is required to submit this form.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/business-and-industry/linc:
Swansea University has worked with thousands of private, public and voluntary sector organisations of all shapes and sized to drive economic growth, foster prosperity, enrich the local community and Welsh culture and, contribute to the health and wellbeing of our citizens.
Swansea University: LINC is a powerful support network that enables organisations to connect with each other, find out about funding and support, and access our resources and expertise to support organisational growth.
By working with Swansea University: LINC, organisations can:
In addition, members can access Swansea University’s powerful support network, and find out about the wide range of funding and support that is available to organisations across Wales.
Swansea University was founded by Industry, for Industry, on the simple principle that "Technical skill is Bereft without Culture".
Taken from one of the earliest collections of medieval Welsh literature, it is as relevant today as it was a thousand years ago.
By becoming a member, you will receive regular updates on current research and development opportunities, events, funding announcements and more.
We have introduced our new interactive platform, designed to create a collaborative space to allow:
Our LINC platform is free to use with new users signing up everyday, sign up here .
Business Networks and Forums

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/research/keep-in-touch:
Thank you for your interest in Research at Swansea University.
Please provide your contact information and let us know how you would like to stay in touch:
By submitting your enquiry you are consenting to your data to be held by Swansea University.
Your data will be used for the purposes of dealing with your enquiry, and sending you relevant information about Swansea University.
Swansea University will not pass your details on to any third party.
If you wish to remove yourself from Swansea University's database please contact the Research enquiries team research.enquiries@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/alumni:
Welcome to our global network of over 200,000 Swansea graduates!
Whether you graduated from Swansea University, University College Swansea, or the University of Wales College Swansea, we're thrilled to have you here with us.
Being part of our alumni community means a lot to us.
We truly value the role you've played in making our University what it is today, and we're excited to stay connected with you.
Find out more about our partnership with graduate and honorary fellow, Anne Boden, founder of Starling Bank.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/press-office:
Swansea University’s award-winning Press Office can link the media to leading academics, ground-breaking research, and other news from across the University.
Phone: +44 (0) 1792 295 050
A Swansea sociologist has been honoured by the journal Current Sociology , published by the International Sociological Association, for his new research into self-optimisation, which is a term for ideas and practices aimed at continuous enhancement of the self.
Examples range from self-help books and podcasts to self-tracking devices, nutritional supplements and cosmetic surgery.
A Swansea University expert researching how to improve teaching skills among healthcare professionals has won a travel scholarship from The Worshipful Livery Company of Wales, which will allow him to share his findings internationally.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/about-us:
Swansea University has been producing world class research since 1920.
We have a long history of working with business and industry but today our research has a much wider impact, reaching across the health, wealth, culture, and well-being of a global society.
We have achieved an extraordinary level of success in recent years with our research activity exceeding that of many larger universities.
This, though, has not compromised the friendly and relaxed atmosphere that has always characterised the “Swansea experience”.
As we continue our journey as a 21 st century University, we look forward to becoming a truly global institution, focusing on the big issues, and improving lives, while continuing to provide inspirational teaching.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-university/location:
The £450m Bay Campus, described as a ‘global exemplar’, is expected to deliver an economic impact of more than £3bn over 10 years.
Our campuses can be easily reached by public transport and car.
Find out about travelling to Swansea University below.
Travelling west on the M4 leave the motorway at junction 42 and follow signs for Swansea on the A483 (Fabian Way).
On crossing the River Tawe the A483 becomes the A4067.
Continue west along this road, passing Sainsbury’s Superstore on the left-hand side of the road.
After approximately 1.5 miles there is a footbridge over the road.
The University’s main entrance lies just before the footbridge and is controlled by traffic lights.
As you approach the lights, keep to the right-hand lane and prepare to turn right into the University.
Parking on campus is limited, therefore the University recommends visitors park on the Recreation Ground on Mumbles road, which adjoins the campus via a short walk through Singleton Park.
Alternatively, there are large Park-and-Ride sites at Port Tennant and on the A483 east of Swansea, at Landore, on the A4067 north of the city.
All sites are open from 7.00 am until 7.00 pm, Monday to Saturday.
Travelling west on the M4, leave the motorway at junction 42 and follow signs for Swansea on the A483 (Fabian Way).
The Bay Campus is situated to the left-hand side of Fabian Way and the main entrance is controlled by traffic lights.
Visitor parking is limited on Bay Campus, however there is a large Park and Ride facility located at Fabian Way, which is a short distance from the Bay Campus.
The St David’s Park Campus in Carmarthen is one of our satellite Campuses.
At this site we offer Adult Nursing and a range of Post-registration and Postgraduate modules.
St David’s Park brings high-quality educational experiences to students in West Wales at an accessible location.
St David’s Park campus is equipped with practice suites, simulation rooms, OSCE room, lecture theatre and classrooms as well as meeting rooms and our learning resource centre with access to PCs and librarian support.
Directions to School of Health and Social Care, Building 3
From the Pensarn roundabout at the end of the A48, take the exit over Lesneven Bridge towards St Clears.
At the next roundabout (B&Q), take the second exit (right) towards Carmarthen town centre.
At the next roundabout, take the first exit and pass Tesco.
Continue straight on at the traffic lights.
At the mini-roundabout, take the first exit; pass the Picton Monument and continue to Johnstown traffic lights.
Turn right at the lights onto Jobswell Road.
Continue straight on – St.
David’s Park is on the left at the top of the hill (signposted).
Google Map: https://goo.gl/maps/8pRYjLQ1oLSewY6o7
Address: St David’s Park, Jobswell Road, Carmarthen, SA31 3HB

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-university/faculties:
With world-class facilities across 2 campuses, Swansea University's Faculties are set along the stunning south-west Wales coast.
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences encompasses Arts and Humanities, Law and Management
The Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Science are research led and offer courses in medicine, health, social care and life sciences
The Faculty of Science and Engineering will be an internationally recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching.
If you are an International Student you can study Undergraduate and Postgraduate pathways with us which lead onto a degree at Swansea University.
Visit our Research pages for information
Visit out Why Swansea pages
Book your place today

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-university/global-engagement:
On behalf of Swansea University, we facilitate the development, growth, delivery and oversight of quality and sustainable academic partnerships, by providing a professional, reliable and effective support service.
We have established links with reputable external organisations, universities and institutions in Wales, the UK, Europe and overseas.
We bring together institutions and organisations from around the world to create and develop innovative international programmes, collaborations, and strategic partnerships with world-class universities.
The international partnerships include those with Grenoble Alpes , University of Texas at Austin , Texas A&M University , Houston Methodist Research Institute , Paris Sorbonne, University of Cape Town, Aarhus University and Auckland University of Technology, to name a few.
Click to see a full list of Swansea's partnerships .
These global partnerships deliver impactful collaborative research, innovative programmes for students, opportunities for staff development and mobility, and enhanced student skills and employability.
The University's International Strategic Partnerships with Grenoble Alpes University and Texas - which include collaborations in research and teaching, joint degrees, staff and student exchange across all subject areas - have been highlighted as examples of best practice within the sector.
The innovative degrees include Joint PhDs, the prestigious Erasmus Mundus Master’s degrees and Validation Arrangements, through which students can qualify for degrees of Swansea University.
Two interesting models of collaboration include a ‘flying faculty’ arrangement with Chinese Universities and a Dual Degree with the University of Trent, Canada.
The portfolio of degrees offered through partnership work include, work based bachelor degrees delivered by further education colleges in Wales.
If you are interested in working with Swansea University please contact us via email or call us on +44 1792 295604.
We are here to help you.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sustainability:
We are ranked 21 st in the People and Planet University League, and play a crucial sustainable development role in the region, the UK and globally.
Our Sustainability and Climate Emergency Strategy (2021-2025) - aligned with the University's Strategic Vision and Purpose - sets out how we operationalise our Sustainability Policy , and commits us to actions across four key themes: The Climate Emergency , Our Natural Environment , Our Working Environment and Our Travel .
We also contribute to other key sustainable development goals: Wellbeing and Human Health , Wellbeing of Future Generations and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals , working collaboratively with our research community to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.
See our Sustainability Research Profiles
Browse the sections below to find out how you can be part of our climate conscious community:
From beach cleans and sustainable gardening, to crafting bird boxes and making friends, there is plenty for you to do and get involved with at Swansea University.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/travel:
As part of our Sustainability Strategy , we encourage active travel at Swansea University.
Walking or cycling to our campuses is great for your health and wellbeing, and for the environment too.
For those who are unable to walk or cycle to campus, we promote public transport as a sustainable and affordable travel option.
We do appreciate that for some students and staff, driving might be the only viable option.
If you do have to drive, you can find information about parking permits and car parking here .
Our Sustainable Travel Officer is here to answer any queries you may have.
Contact us on:
Email: travel@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/contact-us:
Tel: +44 (0)1792 205678
Minicom: +44 (0)1792 513100
We welcome calls in Welsh or English Croesewir galwadau yn Gymraeg a Saesneg
Make an undergraduate enquiry
Make a postgraduate enquiry
International students contact our International Team
Swansea University Singleton Park Swansea SA2 8PP Wales, UK
Swansea University Bay Campus Fabian Way Crymlyn Burrows Swansea SA1 8EN Wales, UK
Academic Partnerships Directorate First floor, Rooms 146-155 Talbot Building Swansea University Singleton Park Campus Swansea SA2 8PP
Telephone No : +44 1792 295604
Email the Academic Partnerships team
Office hours: 9.00-17.00 Mon-Fri
The Academic Services Directorate is responsible for a number of aspects of academic administration relating to taught and research programmes of study, student discipline and complaints, examinations, assessment and progression, student engagement and communications, degree and award congregations, academic regulations, quality assurance and enhancement, the University print room, as well as being home to the University's Welsh Translation Unit and dual campus MyUniHub service.
Contact us:
Tel: +44 (0) 1792 606000 - Croesewir galwadau yn Gymraeg a Saesneg / We welcome calls in Welsh or English
Email the Academic Services team
Academic Services is open Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5.00pm, excluding public holidays.
Contact the Library:
Tel: +44 (0)1792 606400
Email the MyUni Library team
Specific Library locations and contacts
The Estates and Campus Services Directorate is responsible for managing Swansea University’s physical estate and its facilities, as well as for delivering a range of essential services including catering, cleaning, security and travel to the University community.
Contact Estates by email
Or by phone:
Bay Campus Tel: +44 (0) 1792 606 014
Singleton Park Campus Tel: +44 (0) 1792 295 405
For job opportunities please visit our Jobs at Swansea pages
For general enquiries about jobs please email us
Human Resources
Singleton Campus 5 th Floor Faraday Tower Singleton Campus Swansea University SA2 8PP
Bay Campus Room 111 Nanhyfer Building Bay Campus Swansea University SA1 8EN
Visit our Customer Services contact pages here .
Phone: +44 (0)1792 295050
Email the Press team
For urgent media enquiries outside of normal office hours, please phone: +44 (0)7894 251874 or email the Press Team
If you’re not from the media, please contact the main University switchboard: +44 (0)1792 205678.
Croesewir galwadau yn Gymraeg a Saesneg / We welcome calls in Welsh and English.
Contact the Vice-Chancellor's office by email

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/get-active:
At Swansea University, we care about the health and wellbeing of our community, so we offer Get ACTIVE, a physical activity programme to help our students and staff get more active, have fun and meet new people.
Through Get ACTIVE , we aim to:
*Doing 150 minutes or more a week of moderate physical activity.
Get ACTIVE offers a comprehensive and inclusive programme of activities and events for students and staff at both Singleton Park and Bay Campus.
As well as a core timetable of physical activity on campus, the programme also offers tasters, pop ups, challenges and coached sessions, covering a wide range of activities from walking and jogging to volleyball, boules or badminton, as well as opportunities to get offsite and make the most of the Welsh outdoors.
You'll need to register to Get ACTIVE before you can book a session.
Registration is completely Free of Charge for Swansea University students and staff, and the online registration form will take just a few minutes to complete:
Get ACTIVE offers a weekly timetable of fun and affordable activity sessions to get you moving more on campus.
The timetable will vary depending on demand and seasons and will include activities to get you involved and help you meet new people.
The Get ACTIVE programme is exclusive to Swansea University students and staff, with sessions either delivered by one of the Get ACTIVE team or an external coach or activity provider (depending on the activity).
Semester 1
Semester 2
Semester 3
Please Note:
Make sure you complete the Get ACTIVE registration before heading to our events page to book a session.
Get ACTIVE delivers a range of pop-up and taster sessions where you can have a go at something new.
We work with faculties to offer a range of pop-ups, so keep an eye out for us.
No booking required to join-in our pop-up sessions, just Get INVOVLED.
Events & Festivals
Get ACTIVE delivers regular events throughout the year, from Freshers’ Week fun to Old School Sports Day, Beach Festivals, rounders and cricket festivals.
If you want us to run an event or festival for your society, group or friends or staff or event faculty fun events, then get in touch with us (go to the Get IN TOUCH section).
Keep an eye on our Instagram page to keep up to date with what’s on.
Get ACTIVE offers you the chance to learn new skills or develop existing ones through a programme of coached sessions:
Being active outdoors is great for your mind, body and soul.
Our Get ACTIVE programme aims to capitalise on our incredible natural environment around Swansea, Gower and wider in South Wales by using our beaches, coastal paths, country and national parks, woodlands, reservoirs and mountains.
Working with our clubs/societies and local outdoor activity providers, Get ACTIVE offers a range of outdoor sessions throughout the year including:
In 2023-24, we ran hikes up Pen-y-Fan (South Wales’ highest mountain), mountain biking and kayaking in Margam Country Park, surfing at Caswell beach, walks in the Waterfall country, Pembrey Country Park, Lliw Reservoir and many walks around the wonderful Gower Peninsula.
In 2024-25, we will run all of these again and more.
A new addition will be to run our very first Welsh 3 Peaks Challenge.
Every Spring, we recruit enthusiastic, committed and motivated students to become part of our Get ACTIVE Activators Team.
Our Activators are key to the success of what Get ACTIVE delivers.
Activator roles may be generic or sport/activity specific e.g.
volleyball, running, football, walking, and badminton.
As the Get ACTIVE programme grows, we will be widening our activity offers.
Activators will be expected to deliver between 2-4 hours of activity per week (mainly term-time) and will be running weekly timetabled activity, helping to recruit new participants through promoting the Get ACTIVE sessions and helping deliver promotional events.
Our Activators also play a vital role in helping to run our Instagram page; creating content and sharing reels and stories to promote and showcase Get ACTIVE.
To join our team of Activators you must be:
Why get involved :
For further information please contact us via getactive@swansea.ac.uk or complete our expression of interest form .
Contact the Get ACTIVE team: getactive@swansea.ac.uk .
To stay up-to-date with all updates and events, follow us on Instagram.
We want Get ACTIVE to be shaped by you.
The programme will evolve based on your needs and expectations, as we tailor our offer in line with your feedback.
Whether you're interested in joining a club but are feeling a little unsure, want to take small steps towards becoming more physically active and improving your health and wellbeing, or you just want to get outside and improve your social life, why not use our online feedback form and tell us what you're looking for?
If you want to take steps towards being more active, you can view our full programme over on the Students' Union Website .
The online form will take just a few minutes to complete, and registration is completely Free of Charge .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sport/social-leagues:
We have a range of leagues available on a weekly basis, and offer fun, competitive tournaments, festivals and events that run throughout the year.
Our leagues are open to all ability levels and offer students and staff the opportunity to enjoy some fun, affordable and friendly competition, either on or close to the University campus.
Our social leagues are a great way to meet new and existing friends, with options to join as an individual or as a group.
Explore our Social Leagues:
Our Social Leagues offer a weekly timetable for fun and friendly social compeitions.
Check out our timetable below for all our Social League sessions:
Social Leagues football sign-up form.
Monday
Football 5-a-side - 19:00-22:00 (SBSP Bay MUGAS)
Tuesday
Football 6-a-side – 17:30-20:00 (SBSP Singleton 3G)
Wednesday
Football 11-a-side - 13:00-16:30 (Fairwood/Underhill)
Football 9-a-side - 19:00-22:00 (SBSP Bay MUGAS)
Thursday
Football 8-a-side – 17:00-19:00 (SBSP Singleton 3G)
Sunday
Football 5-a-side - 12:00-15:00 (SBSP Bay MUGAS)
Rugby Union - 12:00-14:00 (SBSP Singleton Grass Pitch)
*SBSP - Swansea Bay Sports Park
Our Social Sports are run by the clubs, and offer a weekly timetable for fun and friendly social games.
To get invovled, click here to view the clubs page and sign-up.
Check out our timetable below for all our clubs Social Sports sessions:
Womens Badminton - 19:00-22:00 (SBSP Bay Sports Centre)
Open Hockey - 19:00-20:30 (SBSP Singleton Astros)
Badminton - 19:00-22:00 (SBSP Bay Sports Centre)
Cricket – 20:00-22:00 (SBSP Singleton Sports Hall)
Netball – 14:00-16:00 (SBSP Singleton Outdoor Netball)
Friday
Mens Basketball - 20:00-22:00 (SBSP Bay Sports Centre)
Saturday
Open Volleyball - 10:00-12:00 (SBSP Singleton Sports Centre)
Mens Futsal - 14:00-16:00 (SBSP Singleton Sports Centre)
If you’re unable to play, you can still get involved in our programmes and add to your CV by officiating or being involved in event management.
Contact us if you’re interested.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sport/clubs:
With over 50 sports clubs to choose from and over 5000 active sports club members, at Swansea University we offer something for everyone.
Whether its rugby or karate, dodgeball, hockey or tae kwon do, you're sure to find your dream team at Swansea.
Whatever your level, beginner, intermediate or elite, we offer club sport opportunities for all.
Being part of a club means you're never stuck for something to do or someone to do it with.
With regular training sessions, local leagues, national competitions and, of course the occasional club social, there’s never a dull moment as a Swansea University sports club member.
And although we're all about the fun, we're also setting our sights high.
The top of the BUCS leaderboard is where we aspire to be, so come and join our team and be part of the journey.
Everything you need to know about joining one of our many sports clubs, including membership fee information and the full a-z list of what's on offer, is over on the Students' Union Website .
Whether you're a student athlete, a Swansea University sports fan, or you're just looking for some high quality leisurewear, you can purchase the official sports kit from the Surridge Sport shop all year round and wear the green and white kit with pride.
From socks and hats, to warm coats and fleeces, there's plenty for everyone.
Membership is required to participate in any one of our sports clubs.
You will be prompted to make the purchase before you can join a club.
It is a one off annual fee of £35 and covers your insurance and BUCS/competition logistics.
It does not include gym membership.
Head over to the Students' Union website to find out all you need to know.
Yes, our clubs welcome everyone including beginners.
Many of our clubs will run a free taster or trial session for you to try.
From there, our club membership prices can range from £20 to £80, depending on the sport.
This will normally cover all training and competition costs for the year.
There may be additional fees due for kit or equipment.
All our clubs offer a competitive or a recreational option, depending on how much time you want to commit.
Our clubs train at least once a week, with the higher performing teams training two to three times a week.
Most competitions take place on a Wednesday afternoon or over the weekend.
Swansea Bay Sports Park (Sketty Lane) is our main venue for sport, with the majority of activity taking place there.
However a number of our sports clubs utilise Bay Campus facilities for weekly training.
Club activity runs from September through to May/June.
So even if you don’t join a club in the first semester, you can still get involved after Christmas.
We run a Refreshers Fayre in January for those students new to the university or wanting to join a club.
Yes, there are lots of opportunities even if you do not wish to play sport.
These can include coaching, officiating, sport development and volunteer opportunities, team management and first aid.
If you're interested in other ways to get involved, email our Student Sport Development Officer .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sport/high-performance:
At Swansea University, we offer performance programmes in men's rugby and swimming.
We employ a team of experienced and highly qualified professionals to manage and deliver our performance programmes, which focus on intensive training and support to help our top athletes continuously improve their performance and realise their full potential.
We nurture and develop our most talented athletes through comprehensive scholarship packages designed to help our sport scholars excel academically, as well as in their chosen sport.
Explore our High Performance Sports:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sport/sponsor-us:
Whether you are a local business or a multinational corporation, we have a wide range of partnership and sponsorship opportunities to suit your needs and objectives.
For more information about our sponsorship opportunities, please request our brochure or get in touch via commercialservices@swansea.ac.uk .
Whether it’s increasing brand awareness, engaging with the local community or driving revenue, you can enhance your business objectives through facility sponsorship at Swansea Bay Sports Park.
We have a range of options available which include digital and static advertising boards, facility brand takeover, Sport Swansea headline sponsor and more.
We will work with your individual requirements to find the most suitable product or packages that will deliver maximum impact to your intended audience:
Take a tour of our facilities here.
Support your favourite team and ensure your brand is at the heart of the action with advertising board available across all of our external facilities, including the Athletics Track, Rugby Pitches and Hockey Pitches.
This package includes:
Ensure your brand stands out and reaches our diverse and passionate supporter base as well as the local community with a brand takeover at one of our key sporting facilities.
Support Sport at Swansea University and become the Headline Sponsor of the Sport Swansea brand with exposure across Sport Swansea assets.
We have a select group of sports that make up the university’s high performance sports programme.
Each high-performance sport has a dedicated team who work closely with the coaches to give athletes every opportunity to deliver top-level performance.
Our high-performance sports also receive: sports science service, athlete lifestyle management, physiotherapy and strength and conditioning support.
Find out more about our current high performance sports .
Sport Swansea has a huge range of competitive and non-competitive sports clubs.
Students are the heart of everything we do at Sport Swansea.
Through our huge choice of clubs and other opportunities, we aim to create an atmosphere that makes it easy for students to participate in sport.
Our teams compete in BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) competitions, local competitions, sport-specific competitions or play in non-competitive intramural leagues.
Head over to the students' union webpages to find out about our extensive range of sports clubs .
One of the largest student, multi-sport events in the UK, the Welsh Varsity offers your business exciting sponsorship opportunities guaranteed to get your brand noticed.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/sport/news-and-updates:
For all your Swansea University sporting news and updates, as well as advice and guidance on getting active, click on the images below:
19 June 2025
19 May 2025
10 April 2025
8 March 2025
27 February 2025
18 February 2025
14 February 2025
3 February 2025
21 January 2025
19 December 2024
25 November 2024
7 November 2024
6 November 2024
21 October 2024
9 October 2024
19 September 2024
30 August 2024
29 August 2024
29 July 2024
25 July 2024
2 July 2024
1 July 2024
20 June 2024
13 June 2024
9 May 2024
20 March 2024
13 March 2024
8 March 2024
29 February 2024
21 February 2024
8 February 2024
11 January 2024
13 December 2023
28 November 2023
8 November 2023
2 November 2023
12 September 2023
28 June 2023
19 May 2023
19 April 2023
27 February 2023
18 February 2023
8 February 2023
17 January 2023
9 September 2022
6 September 2022

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/catering:
Welcome to the catering department at Swansea University, learn more about all the services and outlets we provide at the university.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/life-on-campus/the-great-hall:
Designed by world-renowned architect Dr Demetri Porphyrios, The Great Hall is the flagship building at the heart of Swansea University's Science and Innovation Bay Campus.
With a 700 seat auditorium offering world class acoustics and state-of-the-art AV facilities, the Great Hall provides an incredible venue in which the campus and wider community can enjoy cultural performances, events, exhibitions and more.
Book your next event at The Great Hall!
events@swansea.ac.uk 01792 295665

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cultural-institute/taliesin-create:
Located on the ground floor of the Taliesin building, Taliesin Create exists to promote art, culture, creativity and innovation.
Taliesin Create consists of two bookable spaces, the Mall Room and the Studio.
Taliesin Create also features a zone for general study, an area for students and staff to socialise and relax, easy-to-use projectors, a green screen for filming, and areas for pop-up exhibitions and displays.
Taliesin Create hosts over 60 student and staff events each month, meaning it continually evolves with everyone who uses it.
Over the past year, we’ve supported events as varied as kite making workshops for Danny Boyle’s Pages of the Sea; puppetry workshops with Smoking Apples Theatre; a programme of events for the 200 th anniversary of Frankenstein; and Q&As with the 2018 Dylan Thomas Prize’s shortlisted authors.
We’ve also hosted the Research as Art 2018 photography exhibition, short film screenings for the Wales International Film Festival, regular Makers’ Markets, and weekly dance classes in American Tribal Style (ATS) Belly Dancing and Argentine Tango.
The Mall is the glass-walled room at the front of Taliesin Create.
The room has a carpeted floor, capacity for 60 people, and can be closed off from the rest of the ground floor by two sliding glass doors.
There are a number of tables and chairs set up in the Mall.
The tables can easily be folded away if you require greater use of the floor space.
There is disabled access for wheelchairs towards the rear of the room.
The Mall has a ceiling mounted projector and retractable projection screen: The room has no PC but has an easy to use faceplate allowing a portable device (for example laptop) to be plugged in using a HDMI or VGA cable.
These cables can be loaned from Taliesin Create in advance of your event.
The projector system is controlled by a simple push button device mounted near the projection screen (On, Off, Volume, HDMI and VGA).
When selecting the ‘On’ button from the controller the projection screen will drop down and the projector will start up.
The room is fitted with an induction loop.
Campus Catering have the Mall listed on their system as a venue and can deliver catering orders here.
The Studio is Taliesin Create’s amphitheatre space, which has a vinyl floor and bleacher seating as well as a number of moveable chairs.
The Studio has capacity for 60 people and disabled access for wheelchairs towards the rear of the room (near the Egypt Centre).
Unlike the Mall, the Studio cannot be closed off from the rest of Taliesin Create so remains an open, flexible space where people can come and go, drop in and drop out; perfect for performances, workshops and activities.
To make the space even more flexible, the Studio is separated from the rest of Taliesin Create by two retractable walls with moving boards.
These boards can be used to create a wall to make events feel more contained, or pushed aside to open the space up and increase the size of the balcony area.
The Studio has a ceiling mounted projector and retractable projection screen: The room has no PC but has an easy to use faceplate allowing a portable device (for example laptop) to be plugged in using a HDMI or VGA cable.
These cables are not kept in the room but can be loaned from Taliesin Create in advance of your event.
Campus Catering have the Studio listed on their system as a venue and can deliver catering orders here.
To discuss a creative project, activity or event you’d like to hold, please contact Creativity Programme Officer Reg Noyes: r.a.noyes@swansea.ac.uk
Room bookings can be made online via LibCal: https://swansea-uk.libcal.com/booking/TaliesinCreate
Taliesin Create - Room information

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/life-on-campus/our-grounds:
Our historic Singleton Park Campus is nestled within one of Swansea’s most cherished green spaces, Singleton Park, offering open parkland, mature woodland, grassland, planted borders, and ponds - all supporting a diverse range of wildlife.
Meanwhile, our Bay Campus sits right on the beach, next to the Crymlyn Burrows Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), giving staff, students, and visitors direct access to unique coastal habitats.
Both our Singleton Park and Bay campuses have been awarded Green Flag status, recognising the high standards of management, sustainability, and accessibility across our grounds.
Our Singleton Park Campus also holds Green Heritage Site accreditation , celebrating its historical significance and well-managed landscape.
Swansea University’s foundation stone was laid on 19th July 1920 by King George V and the magnificent grounds of the Singleton Park Campus are steeped in history and heritage.
You can discover more about the site's history and heritage here.
With acres of grounds to explore at your leisure, including the Crymlyn Burrows Site of Special Scientific Interest at the Bay Campus and our listed Botanical Garden at Singleton Park , Swansea University offers an outstanding outdoor environment for our students, staff and the community to enjoy.
Our grounds are open to everyone.
Before you come and explore them, why not find out about some of the hidden gems we have nestling within our breathtaking grounds - expand the headings below .
The Abbey’s Grade II listed terrace dates from the era of Sarah Vivian, John Henry Vivian’s wife (1830s).
A talented gardener, much of her work is still in evidence today and continues to influence the restoration work conducted by the University.
One of the most noteworthy features of the Abbey terrace is the large magnolia tree.
Through the decades, it was a student tradition that if the tree had begun to flower and you were not revising for your summer examinations, then you were in trouble.
The grounds surrounding the Abbey are intrinsically linked to the University's heritage, contributing to the biodiversity of the parkland in which they are set.
This stunning open space offers views over the Abbey meadow and Swansea Bay itself and is open for the local community to visit and enjoy.
The landscaping and planting is designed to be sympathetic to how the gardens would have been laid out in the Abbey's prime, while still encompassing a vibrant welcoming campus atmosphere.
The plans for the listed Botanical Garden were first drawn up by pioneering British botanist and Dean of the Faculty of Science, Professor Florence Annie Mockeridge who retired in 1954 prior to the completion of the project.
Dr Herbert ‘Bertie’ Street succeeded Professor Mockeridge, designing the final garden layout and overseeing its creation.
The garden today consists of a number of key features:
The Reptilliary: So called as it was originally home to a small group of tortoises which lived on the island.
It was also used in a breeding programme for adders which were eventually released onto the Gower Peninsula.
The Ornamental Pool: The pool contains eels, sticklebacks and the occasional goldfish and is also home to invertebrates and dragonflies.
The Meadow: The small meadow within the gardens is listed and mown just once a year, increasing the University’s biodiverse landscape.
Woodland walk: University students have helped restore the woodland walk paths which were susceptible to flooding and now lead to the listed meadow.
They also built a series of “bug hotels” and habitat piles along the route, using up-cycled materials.
The Bee Hives: In January 2014, bee hives were introduced to the Botanical Gardens.
There are currently six hives within the site which are owned and tended by University staff.
The landscape of the Botanical Garden's grounds has been exploited to take advantage of the incredible micro-climates created by the surrounding buildings and natural terrain, allowing tender, exotic and often rare plants to be grown.
The garden is also used as a nursery to increase existing plant stock and add to existing collections, improving biodiversity and facilitating learning and wellbeing.
Students utilise the garden as a living laboratory for projects such as the study of bees, bats, newts and amphibians.
Our Bay Campus is located adjacent to a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) which we are responsible for maintaining.
Take some time out of your busy day to explore this rich, natural habitat.
There are loads of ways you can get involved with our biodiversity initiatives at the site.
Our beautiful grounds are managed by a team of grounds management professionals committed to their development and preservation, so that our diverse University community can enjoy a unique environment in which to recharge and relax in between studies and work.
The team is passionate about sustainable development and biodiversity, working together with the University's Sustainability Team to ensure environmental responsibilities are managed and impact on the environment is minimised.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/music:
Swansea University has a vibrant and growing musical scene, with a full complement of ensembles and choirs , instrumental and choral scholarships , practice facilities , and more.
Because we don't have an academic music department, these opportunities are available to all students, whatever subject they study.
Whatever your interests and level of musicianship, you'll have the chance to pursue your love of music at Swansea University.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/humanities-and-socialsciences:
Our Faculty is home to a welcoming and inclusive community that pursues scholarship, research and innovation that benefits society, and which promotes a student experience that enables our students to become highly skilled, socially aware global citizens.
We make a significant contribution to the University’s cultural and civic mission work, and are committed to promoting our Welsh language and culture.
Our cross-cutting research themes bring together multidisciplinary teams, integrating a wide spectrum of disciplines which help us to address global challenges.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/medicine-health-life-science:
Through interdisciplinary and interprofessional learning, research and innovation we will continue to be consistently rated as a top UK provider of health professional and life sciences education; we will maintain our international reputation for excellent research and innovation; and deliver real improvements in health wellbeing and wealth for Wales and the World.
We make a difference to people’s lives the world over, with our cutting-edge research and through our work with the NHS, Social Services and private sector.
Our community of students, researchers and partners draw on and benefit from the expertise of our international researchers and educators, building on our excellent real world research impact.
We offer a range of medicine, healthcare and psychology courses, take a look at our quick guides to find the right course for you.
If you want to join us to study why not join our next in person Undergraduate Open Day and explore the course options open to you.
It is undoubtedly the best way to get to know us; experience our beach front campus, meet the teaching team, and speak to our current students.
We have over 25 years’ experience of driving forward research to improve health, well-being and wealth.
We take insights from bedside to bench and back again, resulting in real world impact and better patient outcomes.
The quality of our research has again been recognised in REF2021, with 85% of our faculty research being rated as world-leading or internationally excellent overall (REF2021).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/science-and-engineering:
The Faculty of Science & Engineering is nationally and globally recognised as a centre of excellence providing an innovative, inclusive learning environment that produces lifelong learners who are prepared for the global economy.
Through our range of undergraduate and postgraduate study opportunities, our aim is for students to develop the potential to become future leaders and champions of industry , or to be equipped to meet the challenges and opportunities for a career in research .
With world-class research centres and sustained investment in our outstanding resources and facilities, we provide a superb environment in which to study or conduct research.
Upcoming Research Events Esteem Research Newsletter
Find out about our Research Institutes
11 August 2025
25 July 2025
21 July 2025
Want to talk to us about our degree programmes, research activity or using our facilities?
Here is the best way to contact us:
Tel: +44 (0)1792 295514
Email: fse-reception@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/hwa:
The Health and Wellbeing Academy offers a range of affordable and flexible services to support the community of South West Wales.
Our services complement those provided by the NHS and allow people to make informed and positive lifestyle choices to improve their health and wellbeing, services include: osteopathy, audiology and cardiology.
Research is an important element of the Academy which draws on the research strength of the School, providing world class teaching and learning opportunities aimed at maximising benefits to the wider community.
01792 518600 Email
HWA Outstanding Contribution to the Local Community
Meet the Health and Wellbeing Academy Team
HWA Privacy Notice
From the Health and Wellbeing Academy
Health and Wellbeing Academy Background

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/clearing/vacancies:
View our course vacancies below and then start your application .
Are you an EU or international student?
Visit our Clearing Vacancies for EU and international students .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/admissions/ask-us-live:
Ask Us Live
Undergraduate Enquiry Form
Postgraduate Enquiry Form

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/clearing/what-is-clearing:
Clearing is the final stage of the yearly higher education recruitment process, and is an opportunity to secure a place at the university for students who either didn’t apply during the main cycle, weren’t successful in their application or declined their offers
It is also suitable for those who are holding an offer, but have changed their minds about their course/university they have chosen, perhaps because they've done better than expected, and is important for students who may miss out on the grades required to go to their firm or insurance choices, as it empowers them to still start their university journey in the same year.
There are a number of reasons why you may choose to go through clearing:
Whatever the reason, Clearing can be an opportunity to secure a university place that is just right for you!
You can check UCAS to see if you're eligible for Clearing.
UCAS will not send anything in the post to tell you if you are eligible, so it is important that you check online.
If you are eligible for Clearing an 'Add Clearing choice' button will appear on your UCAS 'choices' screen, which you can use to accept a place on a course you have been offered through Clearing.
You’ll be eligible for Clearing if:
Follow these steps and be prepared for Clearing 2025.
Before calling the Clearing Hotline make sure you are prepared as you may be asked about your schoolwork or experience.
Some advisors will make a decision based on your grades whilst others will ask questions to assess your interest in your chosen course.
It may be helpful to prepare some notes on why you want to join the university and what interests you in the course you are applying for.
This can depend on each institution but Clearing at Swansea can end as late as October, where programmes still have spaces.
If you didn't receive or accept any offers still contact your university of choice as some take late applicants.
If you are unsure contact Swansea University's Admissions Team to discuss your options.
Take a look at our Clearing Finance Guide for information on how to secure Student Finance.
Students going through Clearing can still apply for University managed accommodation using their UCAS ID number.
Students without a UCAS ID number can apply after they've received their student number from the University (your student number will be sent to you as soon as your application is received).
Apply for University managed accommodation by 20th of August to get a guaranteed offer of accommodation.
See our Accommodation Guide for Clearing Students for further information.
If you want to come to Swansea University but are already holding a place at another university, you can decline your place in your UCAS Hub and join the Clearing process.
Discover how it works in our Guide to Declining Your Place and entering Clearing .
Our stunning waterfront campuses and friendly welcome make Swansea University the perfect destination for students from all over the world, enabling those who join us to develop skills and knowledge that will set them on successful and enriching careers.
Our figures speak for themselves.
We're ranked 29th in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025, Welsh University of the Year in the Times Good University Guide 2025 and 95% of students surveyed would recommend Swansea University (Uni Compare 2025).
Swansea has also been named the 7th Safest City in the UK (Complete University Guide, 2024) making us an ideal place to study.
Read more about our teaching excellence at Swansea University .
But don’t take our word for it, take a look at Ayo's experience as a Physics student at Swansea.
Take a look at our Frequently Asked Questions page where we've added some more information about the things students tend to ask about Clearing - from questions about student life to how the Clearing process works.
You can also live chat with the admissions team if you don't find the answer you need.
If you're looking to hear more about how our students feel about Swansea University, our friendly students are available to answer your questions.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-accommodation:
We understand that for some, applying through Clearing can be a little stressful, and so you'd want to make sure everything is in order before you move to your new home in September and start your exciting journey with us.
At Swansea University, we try and make things as easy as possible for you.
For Clearing students, we offer Guaranteed Accommodation.
Apply for University managed accommodation by 9th September to get a guaranteed offer of accommodation.
It costs nothing to apply and the sooner you apply for accommodation, the better!
View our Residences to see which site and type of room is best for you.
During Clearing we may not be able to offer you your preferred choice but we'll do our best to match you with something as similar as possible.
Apply for accommodation using your UCAS Personal ID number .
If you applied directly to us and not through UCAS, you will have been issued with a Clearing Student ID number which you can use when applying for accommodation:
Accept your accommodation, pay your advance rent payment, and manage your accommodation fees .
Prepare for moving in by checking what you need to bring, what we provide and even how to decorate your room .
Please note that our main accommodation pages may have some information that is relevant to people that applied during the main application process so don't worry if you see dates that are not be applicable to you.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/congratulations:
Your Swansea University journey starts right here, below you will find information on arrivals and enrolment, completing your accommodation application, moving in and more.
Find out more about our clubs and societies, freshers events and your Students' Union officers over on the Students' Union website.
If you are holding a conditional firm or insurance offer from us and you meet the requirements, you will gain automatic acceptance onto your programme (your status will change to ‘unconditional firm’ or ‘insurance’), check the status of your application online with UCAS .
If your place has been confirmed, there is no need to contact the University as well.
We will send information welcoming you to the University within the next few days.
If you have applied for a place in University accommodation, Residential Services will start to allocate rooms over the next few days and you should receive an email from them within a week or two.
Remember to follow the instructions in the accommodation offer to accept your offer.
If you have not already applied for University accommodation , you should apply online as soon as possible.
If you have any queries regarding accommodation, please contact the Residential Services Team direct on 01792 295101.
Find out more about the Students' Union!
View news and events from the Students' Union
As a Swansea University student, you will have full access to our Student Services team at MyUni.
The MyUni website is your Student website for information about support and wellbeing services, what to do and where to go on Campus and information from your faculties and subject areas.
The MyUniHub team are here to help you access a wide range of University support services and to help you resolve any queries you may have.
Visit the MyUni hub
Arrivals and Welcome information
Support and Wellbeing at Swansea
Find out about Freshers
Living in Swansea

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/clearing/finance-for-clearing:
Going through Clearing?
Wondering how that will affect your student finance?
Check out our helpful guide below for students in England and Wales applying for 2025 entry.
If you change your course or university through Clearing then you will need to update your online application.
To do this, sign in to your online account England or Wales go to ‘Your account’ then ‘Change your application’ and update your course and University details.
Remember to change your term-time address if this has also changed.
If you change your course after starting at another University, Swansea University will need to contact Student Finance on your behalf.
Please contact the student finance team to arrange this.
We advise students also contact our Money Advice team to check if any changes will impact their funding.
If you have not yet had funding approved, we strongly advise you do not enrol until this is confirmed as enrolling will mean you are liable to pay fees and your future funding eligibility may be affected.
If you are unsure, please contact the Money Advice team .
If you have already submitted your change of course/university to student finance but have not received your amended notification you can still enrol and receive your first maintenance loan payment.
All you need to do is:-
The easiest and quickest way is to apply through the Student Finance Wales website.
Your application can be submitted in English or Welsh.
Information and advice can also be provided over the phone in English or Welsh.
Proof of identity A requirement of your application is that you confirm your identity.
You can do this by either:
Don't worry if you miss the deadline, you still have up to 9 months after the start of the academic year to apply for student finance.
Your application can be submitted in Welsh and phone calls in Welsh are also encouraged.
You can apply via the Student Finance England website.
When submitting your application you will need your passport and National Insurance number.
Once you have submitted your application you will be given a Customer Reference Number (CRN), keep this at hand as you will need this every time you log in.
The CRN will also be sent out to you in the post.
This depends on whether you're applying from England or Wales.
England
If you're from England then you can use the student finance calculator .
This will estimate your student loan and whether you can get extra student funding.
Please have your parents or partners annual household income at hand as this will help with the results.
Wales
How much you get depends on a number of factors which you can read about on Student Finance Wales.
If you haven't applied yet, apply online as soon as possible!
Course and Institution details can be edited later if needed.
If you are unsure what funding you are entitled to, there is more information available on our student loans and grants page .
Once your loan is confirmed, don’t forget to submit your Online Terms and Conditions (OTC) via your online account with an Electronic Signature (E-Signature) or you won’t receive any payments at the start of term.
Please remember that the Maintenance Loans and any Grants are paid straight into your account but your Fee Loan will go straight to the university.
Find out more about the Money Advice team
Visit our Cost of Living pages

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/cost-of-living:
The Money Advice Team team understand that rising Costs of Living will be a concern to many of our students.
We have detailed and up to date information available to students on our Cost Of Living webpage below, and students can access a comprehensive range of budgeting resources, advice and top money saving tips, on our My Uni Pages .
If enrolled students experience hardship due to unforeseen circumstances, then they may be able to apply to our hardship funds.
There is an expectation that students will have prioritised their essential living costs before applying.
For more information, please refer to our Hardship Funds webpage .
The most important advice we can offer is don’t struggle in silence: Early communication can help prevent problems escalating, so please speak to us if you are concerned about your finances and we will work with you to explore your options.
*Swansea University accommodation costs are represented on the assumption of a standard 40 week contractual agreement.
General living costs figures are drawn from the Save The Student 2025 dataset , published September 2024 for the 24/25 academic year.
In lieu of recent survey data we have temporarily updated these figures in line with inflation to represent a more precise estimation.
Expenditure
Cost per week
Cost per academic year (52 weeks)
Rent
£176*
£9152
Gas/Elec/Water/Internet
Inc in Rent
Contents Insurance
Rent (including a Pre-paid Dining Card)
£181
£9412
Cost per year (52 weeks)
(based on a double room in a shared house)
£135
£7020
Gas/Elec/Water/Internet (Per person)
£19
£988
£1.54
£80
Bus travel
£20 (£4 per day)
*Discount available with MyTravelPass
£450 Anuual Pass
£276 with MyTravelPass
If you are aged under 22 when you start studying at Swansea University you can apply for a Travel Pass .
You can save up to a third off your ticket by showing your Travel Pass to the bus driver.
If you are not eligible for a Travel Pass, students can still apply for 10% off standard fare First Cymru tickets.
Please note that these are average figures based on the assumption of a double room in a shared, privately rented house under a contractual agreement of 52 weeks.
Bond/ Deposit will be payable to secure accommodation.
General Living Costs
Costs per Week
Cost per academic year (40 weeks)
Leisure Spending (including socialising, takeaways, holidays, events and health and wellbeing)
£52.50
£2100
TV Licence
£4.36
£174.50
Clothes/Shopping
£8
£320
Groceries/Toiletries/Household items
£36
£1440
Phone (Mobile data plan only)
£4
£160
Childcare Costs
£276.15*
£11.46
*Based on the average Swansea day nursery hourly rate of £7.89 x 35 hours spent on average attending University per week (Source: Childcare.co.uk ) .
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Please Note: This page is intended to give you an example of living costs for a student at university.
Actual living costs will vary from student to student.
All living costs are reasonable estimates but should not be relied upon.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure they have sufficient funds to meet their living costs whilst studying at university.
These figures cannot account for individual circumstances and are only intended as a general guide to help you prepare your finances before attending university.
These costs may be reduced with forward planning and careful budgeting.
Figures are drawn from average costs paid by students taken by various sources including Save The Student ( 2025 Dataset ), and the Consumer Price Index & Money Helper.
For information on what income you may be entitled to please visit our Undergraduate Funding Page .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/teaching-quality:
At Swansea University, we are proud to deliver inspirational teaching informed by world-class research and excellence in professional practice , designed to help you excel.
In fact, when asked what they associated with Swansea University, our students ranked Quality Education 2 nd (Swansea University’s 2024 UG applicant survey, based on a list of 18 factors).
Underpinned by a robust Learning and Teaching Strategy, our staff work alongside experts in educational development to deliver an engaging and inclusive learning experience for all students - something that is reflected by 28 of our subjects appearing in the UK top 20 for NSS teaching satisfaction .*
We strive to ensure that our teaching continually develops, our teachers are always inspired, and our students have access to enriching and innovative study opportunities , which is part of the reason that the Guardian, the most teaching focused UK league table, ranks Swansea 29 th out of 122 UK Institutions (Guardian University Guide, 2025).
Here are just some of the ways you will benefit from studying at Swansea, with quotes from some of our students on their learning experiences:
At Swansea University, you won't just learn in classrooms and lecture theatres.
For instance, students in the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences have access to Swansea University's Simulation and Immersive Learning Centre SUSIM - a world leading facility utilising a variety of simulation-based education methodologies.
The Faculty of Science and Engineering is a hub for innovative research, with state-of-the-art workshops, laboratories and facilities , and students studying Media related subjects in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences will learn in impressive design suites and Virtual Reality Rooms.
Our Cultural Collections teams, including the internationally renowned and nationally-recognised, Egypt Centre , History of Computing Collection , Richard Burton Archives , and South Wales Miners’ Library provide access to rich resources and object-centred learning experiences that are unique to Swansea.
We are committed to ensuring you thrive at Swansea University, whatever your background or personal circumstances.
Inclusive academic and pastoral support is available for our diverse student population.
The Swansea Academy of Inclusivity works with colleagues across Swansea University to ensure students from all backgrounds are supported.
Swansea Academy of Inclusivity will support students across their entire academic journey, from retention and progression to outcomes.
Their work ensures inclusive learning, teaching and assessment is accessible to all; all students have access to the opportunities available; and all students are supported to reach their full potential.
Our ‘Together We Changed’ campaign shines a spotlight on all the fantastic changes that have happened as a result of student feedback, on all areas of their student experience, including teaching.
The campaign exists to keep students in the loop with all the actions that have been taken based on responses to student surveys , posts on Unitu , comments at Student Opinion Panels/focus groups , and other student engagement activity.
By sharing your student views, it really does help us take the necessary steps towards enhancing your student experience.
The positive feedback our students provide on the lecturers and teaching at Swansea, feed into annual student nominated Excellence in Learning and Teaching and Student Support awards, highlighting the quality of the educational experience here.
At Swansea University, we have an academy dedicated to training academic staff to continually improve the way we teach.
Swansea Academy of Learning and Teaching (SALT) works with academic and professional staff across the University to enhance teaching, learning and assessment, supporting our high-quality student experience.
This work is supported by our Academic Quality Services department, who, using data and integrated systems and processes, deliver a sector-leading, innovative approach to quality assurance and enhancement, enabling Swansea to achieve and maintain an excellent teaching environment.
Our focus on how we teach has helped ensure that 37 of our subjects appear in the UK top 30 for Teaching (the average positivity score across questions 1 to 4 in the NSS 2025 of the institutions that appear in the Times Good University Guide providing subjects.)
At Swansea University, our researchers collaborate across subjects and industries to drive change.
From health innovation and smart manufacturing , to influencing justice and equality processes and protecting the world for future generations , students at Swansea will learn from those who are actively making a difference to our ever-changing world, and are even reforming education itself.
We are proud to be a Welsh institution, and we offer the option of learning through the medium of the Welsh language, offering Welsh-medium provision in every faculty.
We have a range of options available, from entire degrees to select modules, certain departments also offer Welsh language seminars and tutorials for predominantly English-taught modules.
Swansea University works in partnership with Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol ; our branch, Academi Hywel Teifi provides support and assistance to students wishing to study through the medium of Welsh.
94% of students are in employment, study and/or other activities, such as travelling, 15 months after leaving Swansea University (HESA 2024).
This is because, beyond the classroom, we support students as they prepare for the graduate world.
Through Swansea’s Employability Academy , we help equip students with the tools they need to thrive when they leave us.
Through innovative, bespoke career development courses and one to one consultations with our trained careers advisors, we take teaching further than what is prescribed in course syllabuses.
We truly care about the educational experience of our students during their time with us here in Swansea.
*The average positivity score across questions 1 to 4 in the NSS 2025 of the institutions that appear in the Times Good University Guide providing subjects.
Develop your study skills to achieve your goals
Helping you to thrive in your studies

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/about-us/safety-and-security/health-and-safety:
At Swansea University, we take a sensible approach to health and safety management.
Guided by our comprehensive Health and Safety Policy - Part 1 , we are committed to ensuring health and safety management is embedded into our day-to-day business operations.
Our team of dedicated health and safety professionals work with students and staff across the University to promote a health and safety culture and continuously improve health and safety-related processes and procedures to ensure our students and staff can carry out their research, work and studies safely and securely.
Detailed health and safety policy information, advice, guidance and training is available to University staff over on our staff intranet site.
Current postgraduate and undergraduate students can access all relevant health and safety information, guidance and training over on the MyUni Swansea website.
Click on the boxes below to access the platform relevant to you.
Health and Safety
Swansea University
Singleton Park Campus
Email the Team
Tel: 01792 295405

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/disclaimer-and-copyright:
Swansea University makes every possible effort to ensure that the information published on its main web server is up-to-date and accurate, but accepts no legal liability for errors or omissions, and reserves the right to make changes (including to fees, regulations and services, course content and provision), without notice.
With the resources available, monitoring all pages takes significant time and effort, however, all reasonable requests for changes will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.
Swansea University accepts no responsibility for any inaccurate advice or information which is given by sites which have been reached through links from the University's own web pages.
Swansea University exercises no editorial control over any of the peripheral web servers in the www.swansea.ac.uk domain but reserves the right to remove material from them which breaches copyright, is offensive, obscene, defamatory, inaccurate, or otherwise breaches the policy on computer usage at the University.
The University will take immediate action if problems on these peripheral web servers are brought to its attention.
All text published on the University webserver is (c) Copyright Swansea University 2011 except for text explicitly marked as belonging to another's copyright.
Individuals are allowed to download or copy such materials for personal use only.
Proposals for any other reproduction should be made to the Marketing Department, Singleton Abbey, Swansea University SA2 8PP.
All rights reserved.
Photographs and other images appearing on the University webserver have varying copyright.
They are explicitly for use only on web pages published on the University webserver.
For details on individual images please contact the Web Office.
Images must not be reproduced without permission being granted in advance.
Please contact www@swansea.ac.uk with respect to any request for the removal of any page or text from the website.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/about-us/university-governance/corporate-information/modern-slavery-act-2015/modern-slavery-and-human-trafficking-statement:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31st July 2025.
Swansea University takes a zero-tolerance approach towards modern slavery.
Swansea University is an ambitious, research-intensive institution with 24,600 students and 3,714 staff.
The University’s governing body, the Council, has general control over the University and its affairs, purposes and functions.
The Senior Leadership Team has operational responsibility for the University, consisting of the Vice-Chancellor, the Pro-Vice-Chancellors, the Registrar and Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
This body provides a forum for advising the Vice-Chancellor and other senior officers of the University on matters relating to their portfolio responsibilities.
View the University’s financial statements .
The University collaborates with other Higher Education purchasing consortia and other organisations on risk assessment and due diligence processes to share good practice and avoid duplication of effort for both the Universities and external suppliers.
The University also works with the Higher Education Procurement Association (HEPA) and institutions across the sector, being a member of HEPA's Responsible Procurement Group.
Swansea University has a global supply chain, spending £187 million annually purchasing a range of goods, services and works.
Over 94% of the University’s suppliers are based in the UK, however there is an understanding and appreciation that the wider supply chain may be spread globally and so the risk of Modern Slavery increases.
The University will continue to focus on monitoring high risk category areas and suppliers to ensure the strategic supply chains are free from Modern Slavery.
The high-risk sectors for Modern Slavery include office supplies, laboratory consumables, ICT equipment and some estates (facilities management) services.
As most of Swansea University spend and contractual arrangements for these sectors are through national frameworks or local suppliers the residual risk of Modern Slavery violations in these areas is low.
Swansea University’s upcoming Provision of Security Services contract has included obligations that require the contractor to have and to maintain in place throughout the duration of the Contract its own policies with regards to the avoidance of slavery and human trafficking, setting expectations from the outset and ensuring this responsibility in included as a contractual obligation.
The University is a signatory to the Welsh Government Code of Practice on Ethical Employment in Supply Chains, which supports the eradication of unlawful and unethical employment practices to ensure workers at every stage of the supply chain are treated fairly.
During the year to July 2024 the University acted responsibly to ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Swansea University is committed to working towards ensuring there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business.
Considering the obligation to report on measures to ensure all parts of our business and supply chain are slavery free, we will continue to review our workplace policies and procedures to assess their effectiveness in identifying and tackling modern slavery issues.
The publication of this statement is also a requirement of the Welsh Government Ethical Employment in Supply Chains Code of Practice, which the University committed to becoming a signatory to alongside all Universities in Wales in July 2017.
Swansea University is working towards achievement of the commitments of the Code of Practice, which includes encouraging our suppliers to adopt the Code.
Swansea University undertakes to consider due diligence processes in our own business and that of our supply chain.
We are putting systems in place to identify, assess and monitor potential risk areas in our supply chains in order that we continue to mitigate those risks.
Swansea University is a member of the Higher Education Purchasing Consortium Wales (HEPCW).
HEPCW works effectively alongside its counterpart UK Universities Purchasing Consortia.
The joint contracting programme provides a comprehensive and mature collaborative portfolio, which includes some of the high-risk categories such as office supplies, laboratory consumables, ICT equipment and some estates (facilities management) services.
Swansea University is working collaboratively with HEPCW and within the HE Purchasing Consortia to identify the suppliers in these high-risk categories, in relation to slavery and human trafficking, and has signed up to the Welsh Government’s Transparency in Supply Chains (TISC) Register.
The Universities tendering process ensures all suppliers understand their obligations as a University supplier and provide a commitment to tackle Modern Slavery within their supply chains.
Swansea University also carries out due diligence checks on all new supplier’s compliance with the Modern Slavery Act, ensuring that all relevant commercial organisations (as defined in section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015) are compliant with the reporting requirements.
All suppliers (where they are defined as a commercial organisation in section 54 part 2(b) of the Act) are required to declare they are compliant with the annual reporting requirements contained within the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and provide direction to their own MSA Statement.
Working with the wider Welsh Higher Education Purchasing Consortium, the University has engaged NETPositive Futures to deliver an interactive database of current suppliers to assess their conformance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The system will:
Many of our suppliers in these higher-risk categories have committed to the Base Code of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and the UK Universities Purchasing Consortia are working to persuade the remaining suppliers in these categories to join them.
The ETI Base Code is founded on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and is an internationally recognised code of labour practice, requiring that:
Swansea University was the first in Wales to achieve Fairtrade status.
The University's catering service has a strong commitment to sustainability, Fairtrade, and to local purchasing.
Fairtrade is about better prices, decent working conditions, local sustainability and fair terms of trade for farmers and workers in the developing world.
In addition, Swansea University was the first Welsh organisation to affiliate to Electronics Watch.
Electronics Watch is an independent monitoring organisation that helps public sector buyers work together to ensure respect for labour rights and safety standards in factories that make the ICT hardware they buy.
By operating on an affiliations basis, Electronics Watch allows public buyers to share the cost of monitoring suppliers with the whole network of affiliates and coordinate industry engagement.
Swansea University is working in affiliation with Electronics Watch to therefore develop transparency through its supply chain to lower tier suppliers, to mitigate the risk of unethical employment practices, for example conflict minerals supplied to electronics manufacturers.
The real living wage is independently calculated based on what employees and their families need to live and is higher than the national living wage set by the UK Government.
Updated annually, accredited employers pay the real living wage rate on a voluntary basis.
Swansea University voluntarily implemented the real living wage for all its salaried employees in April 2019, benefitting more than 1,000 of its lowest paid employees.
Since then, it has gained its real living wage accreditation from the Living Wage Foundation (LWF) by paying the real living wage to all directly employed staff and also those who have been subcontracted.
Swansea’s accreditation from the LWF, which came into effect on 1 June 2020, allows the University to promote and encourage policies and practices which are an important part of helping its 4,000 staff to lead fulfilling and rewarding working lives.
Recently Swansea University has awarded three large-value contracts for Soft Facilities Management, Hard Facilities Management and Catering all of which include the provision for real living wage to be paid to all employees.
Accredited real living wage employers report that becoming accredited has helped relations between staff and their managers, has led to an increase in motivation and retention rates, and has helped boost the reputation of their organisation.
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in Swansea University supply chains and the organisation as a whole, we will continue to raise awareness of modern slavery.
The Procurement and Sustainability teams work closely to develop internal awareness training, utilising relevant resources, and to strengthen internal policies and procedures in line with ISO standards.
This awareness raising is aimed at relevant levels and roles within the University.
By identifying staff involved in the buying process, training is provided to aid awareness, and to help in identifying risks in the supply chain that they are part of.
Swansea University has expanded its training modules offered in the area of Procurement,  Modern Slavery is now covered under these modules, enabling more Swansea University staff to have a greater understanding of the requirement for all suppliers to be compliant.
Swansea University has identified the Modern Slavery Act 2015 within our ISO14001 (2015) Environmental Management System and Legal Register, which will:
The University has in place a Whistle-Blowing (Public Interest Disclosure) policy and procedures to enable staff, students and other members of the University to raise concerns which are in the public interest relating to allegations of fraud, malpractice, impropriety, unethical behaviour or improper conduct.
The policy and procedures ensure that concerns are dealt with robustly and fairly, and that members raising such concerns are not subject to any form of victimisation.
The policy was revised in November 2021 and now includes within its scope the provision for university staff to report concerns of Modern Slavery Act violations within the University’s supply chain.
The Sustainable & Ethical Procurement Policy is integral to our procurement activities and was developed in collaboration between the Procurement and Sustainability teams.
From 1 November 2015 , specified public authorities have a duty to notify the Home Office of any individual encountered in England and Wales who they believe is a suspected victim of slavery or human trafficking.
Whilst the University is not listed as a relevant public authority in this respect other organisations, including NGOs, are also encouraged to put forward notifications where they encounter a potential victim of modern slavery who does not want to enter the national referral mechanism (NRM).
If an individual is perceived to be at an immediate risk of significant harm call ‘999’.
There are factsheets and a poster that explain what you need to do if you think someone has been a victim of Modern Slavery:
During 2024/25 we will continue to develop measures to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business or supply chains.
These measures include:
Swansea University is committed to further developing understanding and effectiveness in this area, with an aim of achieving greater transparency within our supply chains and acting responsibility towards people working within them.
Swansea University will continue to assess key risk areas within our spend portfolio and develop strategies to mitigate any potential risk.
This Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement was approved by Professor Paul Boyle, Vice Chancellor, on 13th November 2024.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-university/accessibility/swansea-ac-uk:
This accessibility statement applies to https://swansea.ac.uk
This website has been developed by Swansea University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use the website, feel welcome and find the experience rewarding.
For example, that means you should be able to
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
The website has been evaluated by our internal specialist and they certify that swansea.ac.uk is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard.
We know some parts of swansea.ac.uk aren't as accessible as they should be:
If you need information on swansea.ac.uk in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille you can contact our Transcription Centre:
Email: braille@swansea.ac.uk Twitter: @SUTranscription
Swansea University Transcription Centre Amy Dillwyn Building, Swansea University, Singleton Park, Swansea SA2 8PP, United Kingdom
How to find the transcription center: SUTC-Accessible-Guide
We'll consider your request and get back to you in 7 days.
We're always looking to improve the accessibility of the website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we're not meeting accessibility requirements:
Email: webteam@swansea.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
If you're not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS)
The university aims to provide professional information and guidance services for disabled students, students with specific needs and/or medical conditions.
We can provide support if you would like to visit us or phone us.
Please contact the disability service:
Telephone: +44 (0)1792 60 6617 Email: wellbeingdisability@swansea.ac.uk
Swansea University is committed to making all its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
swansea.ac.uk is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA/A standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
Swansea University is committed to sustaining Level AA accessibility.
The following information explains any areas of the website that to our knowledge are not conformant and what we're doing to make that happen.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The website has some pages that have poor descriptions of images that do not give suitable information.
The website uses a third-party product called virtual tours, which gives a visual 3D tour of the campus and accommodation room walkthroughs.
No alternative text is provided for any of the images used in this part of the website.
Some images have been found that use verbose image descriptions, which whilst attempting to help, may worsen the experience with assistive technology.
All of these issues fail success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
The website has podcasts without any transcription to support a range of users who want to access this content in an alternative way.
This fails success criterion 1.2.1 (Audio only & Video only alternatives).
Some videos are embedded on the website from the Vimeo platform and do not provide captions.
This fails 2.2 success criterion 1.2.2 (Captions).
The website also features embedded videos from YouTube that do use captions, but do not provide audio descriptions for content that is purely visual such as students engaging in sports and other activities.
In some cases, instructions are presented visually on screen without any alternative way to understand them.
This fails success criterion 1.2.3 (Audio Description or Media Alternative).
A number of pages have headings that have been misused or are missing.
This will impact users of assistive technology and their experience of the page.
This includes jobs pages and numerous pages generated by content editors and course pages on mobile.
These issues fail success criterion 1.3.1 (Information and Relationships).
Course pages use numerous tables that have table headings, they do not use scope attributes.
The scope attribute tells the browser and screen reader that everything under the column is related to the header at the top.
Allowing users to make sense of the table when using assistive technology.
These issues fail success criterion 1.
3 .1 ( Information and Relationships ).
The website uses some third-party embedded code which uses a variety of button color schemes, some of which have insufficient contrast.
This fails success criterion 1.4.3 (Contrast Minimum).
The website uses some third-party Cookie Bot consent form that when zoomed to 400% in mobile view does not allow content of tabs to be viewed.
This fails success criterion 1.4.10 (Reflow).
Third-party forms are also used that cannot be over-ridden to improve text spacing.
This fails success criterion 1.4.12 (Text Spacing).
Third-party contact forms and a Cookie Bot consent form have focus rings that have insufficient contrast.
This fails success criterion 2.4.7 (Focus Visible).
Errors in Third-party forms are identified by color alone and not announced without focus being placed on them.
This fails success criterion 3.3.1 (Error Identification).
Errors in Third-party forms are generic and do not state the field or type of error to be addressed.
This fails success criterion 3.3.3 (Error Suggestion).
The prospectus page has a sign-up form triggered after some interactions (moving through 2 pages) with the flipbook.
This fails success criterion 3.2.1 (On Focus).
The momentum research news page has a third-party sign-up form embedded with an iframe, which is incorrectly named and will impact screen reader users navigating and understanding the page.
This fails success criterion 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
The third-party Virtual Tours website triggers an automatic rotation of room tours, which can only be temporarily paused before rotation restarts.
This fails success criterion 2.2.2 (Pause, Stop, Hide).
Virtual Tours also does not have a skip to main, meaning keyboard users must move through all links to reach the main content.
This fails success criterion 2.4.1 (Skip to Main).
Virtual Tours does not have a unique page title, meaning all pages are referred to as "Virtual Tour".
This fails success criterion 2.4.2 (Page Title).
Virtual Tours has a tab order that does not follow the visual order of the page and has hidden tabs due to content and links still being within the page but hidden from view.
This fails success criterion 2.4.3 (Focus Order).
Virtual Tours uses links that have no discernable link purpose or any text other than “Void” when tested with assistive technology.
This fails success criterion 2.4.4 (Link Purpose).
If Virtual Tours is embedded on other pages, which has been observed; it generates an additional H1 tag.
This fails success criterion 2.4.4 (Headings and Labels).
Virtual Tours uses focus rings that offer insufficient contrast.
In some cases (course pages and job adverts), headings have been used for style and links to other pages, rather than sections of the current page.
The third-party embedded flipbook features a YouTube video that affects the focus order of the Undergraduate prospectus page.
The flipbook also has a button that is not available to keyboard only users, this fails under success criterion 2.1 (Keyboard).
The course A-Z does not support keyboard only users interacting with the letter "T" to jump to the courses under "T" within the A-Z, this fails under success criterion 2.1 (Keyboard).
An Instagram carousel displaying 3 cards does not support keyboard-only users moving three slides, and once in the embedded content, keyboard users must tab through all stories to reach web content below.
This fails under success criterion 2.1 (Keyboard).
The cookie consent banner has a number of issues including: No visible focus on the toggle option for necessary cookies when using the keyboard navigation.
The fails success citerion 2.4.7 (Focus Visible).
When zoomed to 400% or used on a small screen (320x256) the content within the cookie notice such as 'content', 'details' and 'about' are unavailable.
The cookie count which states how many cookies are used in areas such as 'necessary' do not have sufficient contrast making them difficult to see and fail success criterion 1.4.3 (Contrast Minimum).
The website has several links labelled with the same text, going to different pages and information, due to the university delivering several education options: undergraduate, postgraduate taught, postgraduate research.
This fails success criterion 2.4.4 (Link Purpose).
The vacancies page has content that is both English and Welsh.
This is not marked up in applicable language attribute for parts of the page.
This fails success criterion 3.1.2 (Language of Page) and 3.1.1 (Language of Parts).
A number of pages were submitted to WS3 external validator and reported some minor issues to be addressed.
This fails success criterion 4.4.1 (Parsing).
Over the last year we have addressed a number of accessibility issues, undertaken training with an external agency in accessibility testing and auditing.
However, we know we need to do more!
The above criterion failures will be addressed through the following:
An assessment has been made taking into account the size and resources available to the organization, any content that is judged a disproportionate burden are stated in this section.
No issues or not applicable.
An assessment has been made taking into account the size and resources available to the organization, any content that is judged out of scope of the regulations are stated in this section.
A sample selection of PDF's have been manually accessibility tested and automated tests ran by an external platform reported 850 PDFs with minor accessibility issues.
We will work with content editors to ensure they have the training and resources to address any errors found.
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Our Accessibility Roadmap shows how and when we plan to improve accessibility on swansea.ac.uk.
This statement was prepared on 24/02/2025.
This statement was last reviewed on 10/02/2025.
The website swansea.ac.uk was last tested on 27/02/2025.
The test was carried out by our internal usability and accessibility specialist that works externally to the web team that develops this site.
We used a consistent process and approach to deciding on a sample of pages to test.
This is available in How we tested the website
The full accessibility report is available on request.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/swyddi-yn-abertawe:
Yn chwilio am swydd newydd?
Eisiau newid swydd?
Oes diddordeb gennych yn yr hyn y gall Prifysgol Abertawe ei gynnig ichi?
Rydym yn Brifysgol groesawgar gyda chymuned gynnes.
Rydym yn gwerthfawrogi pobl am eu sgiliau, ni waeth eu cefndir ac rydym yn falch o fod yn un o’r cyflogwyr gorau ym Mynegai Cydraddoldeb flynyddol Stonewall.
Rydym yn gwybod bod gan bobl ymrwymiadau y tu hwnt i’w swydd, felly rydym yn cynnig amgylchedd gweithio sy’n galluogi staff i daro’r cydbwysedd iawn o ran gwaith/bywyd.
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o fuddion gwych, oll wedi’u cefnogi gan ein hadran AD arobryn.
Bywyd y campws
Hanes a threftadaeth
Dyfarniadau a Safleoedd y Brifysgol

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/current-vacancies:
Swansea University is a diverse and welcoming workplace, valuing people for their skills regardless of their background.
Applications are welcome in Welsh and will not be treated less favourably than those submitted in English.
An exciting opportunity to join a Future Leaders Fellowship funded project studying gas-surface reactions.
Salary: £34,132 to £45,413 per annum
Closing Date: 07-09-2025
Job Number: SU01158
The Gambling Research, Education and Treatment (GREAT) Centre at Swansea University is seeking a GREAT Tutor in Behavioural Psychology.
Salary: £34,132 to £38,249 per annum
Closing Date: 31-08-2025
Job Number: SU00998
Talented graduate required with strong quantitative background to develop data analysis & modelling skills & experience applied to health economics
Job Number: SU01150
The Secure Research Platform (SeRP) Team are recruiting an Assistant Data Manager to support operations.
Job Number: SU01148
Critical Thinking Lecturer (Part Time)
Salary: £36 to £42 per annum
Closing Date: 01-09-2025
Job Number: SD03225
Research Officer in Antihydrogen Physics to be based at CERN, Switzerland
Salary: £39,105 to £45,163 per annum
Closing Date: 04-09-2025
Job Number: SU01151
The School of Psychology is recruiting a Teaching Fellow in Psychology, with a focus on research methods, wellbeing and climate psychology.
Closing Date: 03-09-2025
Job Number: SU01159
We require two SeRP project officers to assist with the operation of SeRP research platforms and project management.
Salary: £39,355 to £45,413 per annum
Job Number: SU01172
Recruiting a Clinical Learning Facilitator in Clinical Engineering to support delivery of work-based elements of the Clinical Engineering BSc degrees
Job Number: SU01187
Law Lecturer (part time) & Academic Lead for Foundation Law
Salary: £42.00 - £45.00 per hour
Closing Date: 08-09-2025
Job Number: SD03223
We are seeking an enthusiastic and highly motivated individual to join the NP BioHUb team.
Salary: £29,959 to £33,482 per annum
Closing Date: 10-09-2025
Job Number: SU01183
Swansea University are looking for a Finance Assistant
Salary: £23,881 to £25,733 per annum
Job Number: SU01141
Applications invited for a Research Assistant to support the MAGENTA research project exploring the impact of heat exposure on pregnancy outcomes.
Closing Date: 11-09-2025
Job Number: SU01182
Delivering outstanding coaching across student sport, from grassroots participation to high performance.
Closing Date: 09-09-2025
Job Number: SU01173

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/working-at-swansea-university:
We recognise that people have commitments outside their job and we provide a highly desirable working environment that allows our employees to achieve the right work/life balance for them.
We want to attract and retain talented and highly-skilled staff so we make sure that our salary scales remain competitive within higher education and commercial sectors.
Salary bands for each role are stated when advertised, with staff starting at the first point of the salary scale within that band and annual increments being paid each year.
The University is committed to equality of opportunity relating to pay, salary and career progression for all staff within a framework which is fair, transparent and consistent.
Visit our page on Pensions at Swansea University for more information.
The University recognises that having flexible working arrangements benefits both you and the institution.
All staff have the right to apply for flexible working arrangements and applications will be considered with the business needs in mind.
There are many different types of flexible working patterns, including (but not limited to) the following:
The University believes that it is important for employees to have a good work/life balance and so we offer a generous annual leave entitlement of 31 days per year, plus statutory holidays, for all staff.
The annual leave year runs from 1st January to 31st December.
The University adopts a number of approaches as a means of promoting and mainstreaming equality and diversity in all its activities.
See our equal opportunities pages for further information.
Maternity Leave: We provide generous maternity leave and pay for those who have completed at least 52 weeks of continuous service by the estimated date of childbirth.
Paternity Leave: If you meet the eligibility criteria, you are entitled to take a maximum of two weeks off; at full pay.
Shared Parental Leave: We also offer shared parental leave which allows you and your partner to share 52 weeks’ leave for the first year.
You may also be entitled to enhanced, shared parental pay for some or all of the leave you wish to take.
Adoption Leave: We offer enhanced adoption leave and pay for staff who have 26 weeks’ service with the University.
We recognise the challenges of balancing work and family life and we have a Students’ Union Day Nursery situated at the Singleton campus which provides high quality childcare for children aged three months to eight years and offers competitive rates.
We provide quality learning and development opportunities for academic and professional services staff.
We have a range of health and wellbeing services on campus including a medical centre, dental surgery, sports centre, staff counselling service and osteopathic clinic.
In addition, our Health and Wellbeing Academy offers services that complement those provided by the NHS and allow people to make informed and positive lifestyle choices to improve their health and wellbeing
Our My Lifestyle online portal offers significant benefits to staff.
We continually update the offers and work with national and local partners to provide the best savings.
Some of these include:
We offer an attractive staff bursary package to encourage staff to gain further qualifications.
The University offers a childcare voucher scheme.
Staff who joined the scheme before the Government’s deadline (4th October 2018) can salary sacrifice each month to go towards childcare costs.
Although we can no longer accept new applicants to this system, you may be able to receive childcare support via the Government Tax-Free Childcare scheme (TFC).
Please click on the following links for more information: https://www.childcarechoices.gov.uk / https://www.gov.uk/help-with-childcare-costs/tax-free-childcare

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/equality-and-diversity:
Swansea University aims to provide a working and learning environment, which is free from discrimination and enables staff and students to fulfill their personal potential.
We welcome and celebrate the diversity our staff and students bring to the University, encouraging us to think differently and act differently.
Find out more about what we do, including our latest reports and contact details.
If you would like to find out more about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at Swansea University, please contact our friendly and approachable team.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/information-for-applicants:
You can access a list of all vacancies available at Swansea University via our Jobs page .
If you would like to apply for one of the jobs advertised, please select ‘ Apply for job ’ at the end of the relevant job advert.
This will take you to our privacy notice page, which we recommend you read before continuing.
Need help writing your CV and Cover Letter for one of our open vacancies?
Guidance is available:
CVs and Covering Letters for Applicants
If you are applying for an academic vacancy, you may find it helpful to review our Academic Career Pathway (ACP) information.
Our recruitment process aims to evaluate applications against the ACP’s and the person specification criteria in the job description (attached to the job advert) will detail the type of evidence you should provide on your application.
If you are applying for a professional or support vacancy, it may be helpful to review our Professional Services Values and Leadership Expectations .
Our recruitment process aims to evaluate applications against the values and other job-related criteria in the job description.
This is attached to the job advertisement and will detail the type of evidence you should provide on your application.
The panel who review your application will be seeking evidence that you meet the criteria against each point in the person/job specifications and we would strongly advise using specific examples for each point.
You may also find it helpful to structure your examples using the STAR technique; this is a simple way to help you answer questions in the application form and at interview, using evidence and real examples to show us your skills.
STAR stands for S ituation, T ask, A ction and R esult.
How do I use STAR?
S- Situation
You can set the scene and let us know the background and context to your answer.
Try to be specific in your description.
T – Task
Describe the task you were responsible for in the situation and what you needed to do to complete or resolve it.
Keep focused on the part you were responsible for and be concise.
Include any challenges you faced.
A – Action
This is your opportunity to tell us exactly what you did to achieve a successful outcome.
We are looking for the part you played.
Using your specific example, show us the skills you used at each step eg planning, initiative, communicating, problem solving, leadership etc, but make sure this is relevant to the question and the criteria in the job description.
R - Result
Share the outcome of the situation, and your specific contribution.
You can also tell us what you learned or if you would do things differently next time.
The University must carry out and record a Welsh language skills assessment for each new and replacement role.
This supports the University's commitment to normalising the use of the Welsh language and is a legal requirement under the Welsh Language Standards .
Each post will be allocated on of the following levels:
Level 0 – No Welsh required
Level 1 – ‘a little’ e.g.
pronounce Welsh words, place names, department names.
Able to answer the phone in Welsh (good morning / afternoon).
Able to use of learn very basic every-day words and phrases (thank you, please, excuse me).
Level 1 can be reached by completing a one-hour training course.
Level 2 – ‘fairly well’ e.g.
able to understand a fair range of job-related correspondence, including when standard language is used.
Able to keep up a simple conversation on a work related topic, but may need to revert to English to discuss complex or technical information.
Able to write reasonably accurate reactive (non-specialised) correspondence in Welsh
Level 3 – ‘fluently’ e.g.
able to conduct a fluent conversation in Welsh on work-related matter.
Able to write original Welsh material with confidence
For Level 1 posts, this level can be achieved once you start your post by completing a one-hour training course covering Welsh language basics and general Welsh language awareness.
Level 2 and 3 posts will usually be assessed during the interview, with the possible addition of a written task as appropriate.
Internal courses are available free of charge for fluent Welsh speakers who would like to improve their confidence in using Welsh at work.
Please note, under the Welsh Language Standards, you are entitled to an interview through the medium of Welsh.
Elements of the interview may still be in English if you are required to communicate bilingually in the role.
Shortlisting normally begins soon after the closing date.
If you are unsuccessful at the shortlisting stage, we will send you an email as soon as the shortlisting process has been completed.
Regrettably, due to the sheer volume of applications we receive, we are currently unable to provide individual feedback.
If you are successful at the shortlisting stage, we will contact you with interview details.
Please tell us if you need any assistance or other special requirements to be able to attend the interview and a member of our HR team will be happy to help.
We will let you know the outcome of your interview as soon as possible or give you a timeframe in which you can expect a response.
You are welcome to request feedback from the HR team after your interview.
If you have been successful, a member of the interview panel will contact you to discuss your offer.
If you choose to accept the position, the HR team will send you an offer of employment and will support you through the pre-joining process.
Our application system has been designed to be as intuitive as possible but if you need any help, or have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us by email (details below) before the closing date.
Similarly, if you are experiencing technical problems, please Email Human Resources

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/new-staff:
Founded in 1920, the University stands in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula.
Based across two locations, the Singleton Park and Bay Campuses, the University offers an extensive range of continuing education programmes.
As Wales' second city, Swansea enjoys a complete range of social, cultural and sporting amenities and excellent transport links; London is 192 miles away, under three hours by train, and Cardiff, the capital of Wales, is less than an hour away.
You can find out more about the history , vision and values of the university on our website.
Below you will find useful links to information for new staff, such as what you need to do when you begin your job at the university, as well as details on where to go for different services on the two campuses.
We also provide helpful information in the current staff and managers sections of our intranet, which you will have access to upon starting your role.
Our Data Privacy, Terms and Conditions page provides further information for new starters.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/performance-enabling:
At Swansea, we are committed to a culture of Performance Enabling, which supports employees to achieve their potential, succeed in their roles and thereby delivers the University’s key strategic themes.
Performance Enabling is a range of related approaches that help to:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/uk-visa-immigration:
Swansea University is proud to be a global institution and considers this integral to the University continuing to achieving its ambitions.
If your application is successful, the HR team will liaise with you to confirm your eligibility to work before joining us.
If you require a visa, the HR team will support you through this process.
All UK employers are required to check and confirm an individual’s right to work in the UK before they start work, to ensure compliance with UK Immigration legislation and the terms of the University’s sponsorship licence.
The University must confirm an individual’s right to work in the UK, regardless of their nationality.
This include UK and EEA nationals.
The University must:
Visa holders will need to provide the necessary online Share Code .
You will need to be able to provide original copies of one or more acceptable documents , as detailed in the Home Office guidance
The University must check all other colleague's document(s) validity in the presence of the holder.
Where this is not possible, you should send the original documents to your HR contact via recorded delivery and the HR contact will arrange to verify these via Skype or similar.
The HR contact will then either return the original documents via recorded delivery or retain them securely until you attend the University.
In addition to providing Student Visa Holders their eligibility to work before commencing employment with the University, Student Visa Holders will also be required to sign a declaration confirming they understand the terms of their visa and the planned work will not breach their visa.
If you do not have currently have the right to work in the UK, you may still be able to apply for a visa to allow you to do so.
Detailed information about working in the UK can be found at the UK Visas and Immigration website .
If you require a visa, the HR team will provide advice on the process and support you through it.
Yes, Swansea University offers Global Talent Visas, of which there are four routes of application.
You can find out more about the Global Talent Visa routes here .
Overseas Tier 2 and Tier 5 Visa  Holders Guide

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/jobs-at-swansea/new-staff/relocating-to-swansea:
Swansea, Wales’s first ‘Human Rights City’, is a thriving city of celebration.
Over the years, it has become an increasingly diverse and inclusive place to live and work in.
It boasts of people and culture from around the world at the heart of the city centre embraced through its food, festivities, cultural and community life.
Swansea offers many places for our international community to feel at home.
It succeeds in offering children a flying start in life through its educational establishments as well as recreational provisions.
It encourages people to learn successfully, providing opportunities for everyone to benefit from a good place to live and work.
Only a stone’s throw away, the Victorian resort of Mumbles, also known as the ‘Gateway to Gower’, offers a fantastic array of attractions, including a pier, traditional boutiques, craft shops and ice-cream parlours.
The Gower Peninsula – designated Britain’s first ‘Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty’– extends west of Mumbles in a succession of stunning coastal and rural sceneries.
To the east, the ‘Waterfall Country’ at Afan and the Vale of Neath is a haven for walkers and bikers alike.
A journey west, takes you to Britain’s only coastal national park: Pembrokeshire.
Swansea is also privileged to be less than an hour’s drive from the Brecon Beacons National Park.
There are a number of websites and social media groups with information about events and activities in the area.
A good starting place to find out more might be:
Swansea Bay website
Enjoy Gower website
City and County of Swansea website
We are also privileged to be just a short distance from:
The Brecon Beacons National Park
Britain’s only coastal National Park: Pembrokeshire
The popular cycling/walking trails of the Afan Valley including Afan Forest Park
In addition to local estate agents' individual websites, you can also search for property on a number of national sites, including:
Zoopla
Rightmove
OnTheMarket
We will try to assist where possible, with relocation arrangements.
To find out more details about our relocation expenses policy, please enquire when applying.
These Swansea Council website pages lists all local state schools
SchoolGuide.co.uk , and other national websites, list all schools including independent/private schools
Estyn is the independent body, which monitors, inspects, and provides guidance and Recommendations to schools in Wales.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/the-university/history:
The University's foundation stone was laid by King George V on 19 July 1920 and 89 students (including eight female students) enrolled that same year.
By September 1939, there were 65 staff and 485 students.
In 1947 there were just two permanent buildings on campus: Singleton Abbey and the library.
The Principal, J S Fulton, recognised the need to expand the estate and had a vision of a self-contained community, with residential, social and academic facilities on a single site.
His vision was to become the first university campus in the UK.
By 1960 a large-scale development programme was underway that would see the construction of new halls of residence, the Maths and Science Tower, and College House (later renamed Fulton House).
The 1960s also saw the development of the "finite element method" by Professor Olek Zienkiewicz.
His technique revolutionised the design and engineering of manufactured products, and Swansea was starting to stake its claim as an institution that demanded to be taken seriously.
Work began on the student village at Hendrefoelan in 1971, the South Wales Miners' Library was established in 1973 and the Taliesin Arts Centre opened on campus in 1984.
The Regional Schools of Nursing transferred to Swansea in 1992, and the College of Medicine opened in 2001.
Technium Digital was completed in 2005 and, barely two years later, the University opened its Institute of Life Science , which commercialises the results of research undertaken in the Swansea University Medical School .
Work commenced on a second Institute of Life Science in 2009.
In 2012 we began an ambitious campus expansion and development project, including the opening of our Bay Campus in 2015; which is home to the College of Engineering and the School of Management .
In 2018 we opened the doors to two further projects, The College ; Swansea University's joint venture with Navitas (The International College Wales Swansea, ICWS) and the Computational Foundry ; the home of the College of Science's departments of Computer Science and Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio:
Fel myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, byddwch yn elwa o'n cymuned aml-ddiwylliannol dau gampws sy'n cynnig y gorau o'r ddau fyd - profiad Cymreig a Chymraeg mewn prifysgol ag iddi gysylltiadau amlddiwylliannol a rhyngwladol gyda chyfleoedd i ennill sgiliau sy'n para am oes.
Mae ein lleoliad unigryw yn golygu nad ydych byth yn bell o'r ddinas na'r traeth, felly cymerwch olwg.
Pwy bynnag yr ydych a beth bynnag yw'ch uchelgais, mae yma groeso i chi yn Abertawe.
Prosbectws Israddedig
Prosbectws Ôl-raddedig
Cysylltu â ni

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig:
Mae ein campysau glan y môr trawiadol a chroeso cyfeillgar yn gwneud Prifysgol Abertawe yn gyrchfan berffaith i fyfyrwyr o bob cwr o'r byd.
Darparu addysg ymarferol a deniadol sy'n eich paratoi ar gyfer y byd go iawn.
Fe welwch gyfuniad o ymchwil blaengar , ystod o gyrsiau amrywiol a bywyd campws sy'n ddeinamig ac yn groesawgar.
Mae ein llety ar y campws yn cynnig cartref oddi cartref i chi, lle gallwch gael tawelwch meddwl o wybod eich bod yn rhan o gymuned ddiogel .
Mae llety prifysgol yn golygu y byddwch yn agos at ein holl gyfleusterau campws anhygoel, traethau arobryn, cyfleusterau chwaraeon , lleoedd bwyta a llyfrgelloedd.
Darganfod mwy am ein hopsiynau llety .
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn cynnig mwy na gradd; mae'n gyfle i feithrin sgiliau, cysylltiadau, a phrofiadau a fydd yn siapio eich dyfodol.
Archwiliwch ein cyrsiau a dewch o hyd i'ch lle yn Abertawe.
Derbyn e-byst gan gynnwys gwybodaeth am ddiwrnod agored, cylchlythyrau a mwy.
Dewch o hyd i ddyddiadau Diwrnod Agored israddedig ac ôl-raddedig Prifysgol Abertawe yma.
Siaradwch â'n myfyrwyr am eu profiad ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe
Gwybodaeth am gymorth ariannol ar gyfer eich gradd
Ymunwch â chymuned Abertawe, dewch o hyd i'ch llety ar y campws.
Chwaraeon, Clybiau a Chymdeithasau, diwylliant, adloniant, mae Abertawe'n cynnig y cyfan.
Gallaf ddweud yn llwyr mai dyma'r penderfyniad gorau i mi ei wneud erioed – o'r alwad ffôn gychwynnol honno, roedd Abertawe'n credu ynof fel person ac fel myfyriwr.
Ces i amser gwych yn y brifysgol a ches i gymaint o gymorth drwy gydol fy amser yma.
Mae'r lleoliad yn hardd a'r cyfleusterau'n anhygoel a dwi mor hapus fy mod i'n astudio yma.
Prifysgol wych.
Darllenwch ein canllaw cynhwysfawr
Sut i lenwi'ch cais UCAS
Llenwch ein Ffurflen Ymholiad Israddedig

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig/cyrsiau:
Dewch o hyd i'ch cartref myfyriwr

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/llety:
Pryderu am golli allan?
Mae byw yn llety'r brifysgol yn eich rhoi wrth wraidd bywyd campws, gan ei gwneud hi'n hawdd ymuno â digwyddiadau, cwrdd â phobl newydd a chreu atgofion bythgofiadwy.
Cadwch mewn cysylltiad, aros yn gymdeithasol a pheidio â cholli dim - oherwydd bod y profiadau gorau'n digwydd pan fyddwch chi yn y lle cywir!
Mae dechrau yn y brifysgol yn gyffrous, ac rydym yma i wneud eich symudiad yn un hwylus.
Mae ein llety diogel a chroesawgar yn cynnig y lle perffaith i ymlacio ac ymgartrefu.
Rydym yn cynnig opsiynau ar gyfer myfyrwyr yn eu blwyddyn gyntaf, ôl-raddedig a chyfnewid.
Dylech wneud cais cyn gynted â phosib - bydd cynigion yn cael eu hanfon ar ôl i chi gadarnhau eich lle.
Dewiswch yr opsiwn sy'n eich disgrifio chi orau a dechreuwch y broses o ddod o hyd i'r cartref myfyrwyr.
Os ydych eisoes wedi gwneud eich penderfyniad, gallwch gael gwybodaeth am sut i wneud cais am lety neu ddysgu mwy am gyrraedd a beth i ddod gyda chi .
Gyda mynediad uniongyrchol i'r parciau, traethau a chyfleusterau chwaraeon gwych, wrth astudio ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe bydd gennych ystod o opsiynau llety ar draws y ddau gampws, yn ogystal ag oddi ar y campws ac mewn llety yn y sector preifat .
Bydd gennym rywbeth at ddant pawb.
Darllenwch ymlaen i weld pam gall llety'r brifysgol fod yn ddelfrydol i chi.
Rydym yn ymrwymedig i alluogi mynediad i'r holl fyfyrwyr, felly rydym yn cynnig nifer o ystafelloedd wedi'u haddasu a hygyrch , nodwch ar eich cais os oes angen ystafell hygyrch arnoch a byddwn yn eich cefnogi gyda hyn drwy’r broses ddyraniadau.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig ystod o ardaloedd llety dynodedig i fyfyrwyr sydd â dewisiadau neu ofynion penodol, gan gynnwys llety ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n siarad Cymraeg , llety tawelach, ardaloedd myfyrwyr o'r un rhyw, ardaloedd myfyrwyr aeddfed, preswylfeydd dim alcohol a phreswylfeydd i fyfyrwyr sy'n astudio pynciau nad yw eu cyrsiau o'r hyd arferol Byddwn bob amser yn ceisio diwallu anghenion myfyrwyr â'r dewisiadau hyn lle bo'n bosib.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn nodi eich anghenion ar eich cais neu trafodwch opsiynau gyda’n tîm llety wrth wneud cais.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/clirio:
Gall clirio fod yn gyfnod cyffrous yn llawn cyfleoedd newydd.
Clirio yw'ch cyfle i ddod o hyd i'r ffit perffaith ar gyfer eich taith academaidd, p'un ai nad ydych chi'n cael y graddau rydych chi'n gobeithio amdanyn nhw neu os ydych chi wedi newid eich meddwl am eich cwrs.
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydyn ni yma i'ch helpu chi bob cam o'r ffordd.
Mae ein Llinell Gymorth Clirio ar agor o ddydd Llun i ddydd Gwener o 09:00-17:00 ag eithrio Gŵyl y Banc (Dydd Llun 25 Awst).
Gwnewch gais heddiw a byddwch hefyd yn cael cynnig gwarantedig o lety a reolir gan y Brifysgol .
Dewch o hyd i'ch cwrs perffaith heddiw.
Ar ôl i chi wneud cais, dewch i'n gweld ni yn un o'n Diwrnodau Agored Clirio ar y campws neu ymunwch â ni am sesiwn Holi ac Ateb dros weminar i ddarganfod mwy am fywyd fel myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Gwarantu Llety
Gwnewch gais am lety wedi ei reoli gan y Brifysgol cyn Awst yr 19eg i gael cynnig llety wedi ei warantu.
Yn syml, ydych.
Mae yna brifysgol i bawb a hyd yn oed os nad ydych yn cael y graddau sydd eu hangen arnoch, gallwch fynd drwy'r broses glirio i ystyried dewisiadau amgen neu hyd yn oed opsiynau newydd.
Yn Abertawe, mae ein tîm derbyn wrth law i ateb unrhyw gwestiynau sydd gennych, rydym hefyd yn cynnig cyrsiau sylfaen yn ogystal â chymorth academaidd ar gyfer pan fyddwch yn ymuno.
Darllenwch fwy am glirio
Peidiwch â chynhyrfu, dydych chi ddim ar eich pen eich hun.
Mae clirio yn ffordd wych o siarad naill ai â’ch prifysgol ddewisol ac archwilio’r opsiynau sydd yno neu gallwch siarad â phrifysgolion eraill a allai fod â lleoedd ar y cwrs yr hoffech ei astudio.
Yn Abertawe gallwn fod yn hyblyg o amgylch rhai cynigion.
Ffoniwch ni i drafod eich opsiynau
Mae modd i chi ddefnyddio'r opsiwn hunan-ryddhau yn UCAS Hwb (drwy wrthod eich cynnig) os ydych chi wedi derbyn cais gyda phrifysgol arall ond yn newid eich meddwl ac eisiau dod i astudio yn Abertawe.
Ystyriwch y penderfyniad yma'n ofalus gan eich bod yn gallu colli eich lle yn y prifysgol gwreiddiol os ydych chi'n hunan-ryddhau ac yna'n newid eich meddwl.
Darllenwch ein canllaw ar wrthod eich lle am ragor o wybodaeth.
Un o’r pryderon mwyaf yw’r gost o fynd i’r brifysgol, bydd y rhan fwyaf o fyfyrwyr Cymru yn talu am eu ffioedd dysgu a’u costau byw trwy wneud cais am gymorth ariannol trwy wefan Cyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru.
Peidiwch ag anghofio y gallech hefyd fod â hawl i ysgoloriaeth neu fwrsariaeth - ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe gallech dderbyn hyd at £3,000!
Mae ysgoloriaethau penodol ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy’n dewis astudio drwy’r Gymraeg ac mae gan y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol ysgoloriaethau y gallwch ymgeisio amdanynt hefyd.
Yn ogystal, mae llawer o swyddi myfyrwyr ar gael ar y campws a fydd yn cyd-fynd â'ch amserlen, ynghyd â chymorth cyflogadwyedd.
Archwiliwch opsiynau cyllid myfyrwyr yma
Wrth gwrs!
Byddwn yn cynnal nifer o Ddiwrnodau Agored Clirio rhwng 15  - 18 Awst , lle bydd modd i chi ymweld â ni a chael blas ar fywyd myfyriwr Prifysgol Abertawe.
Bydd cyfle i fynd ar daith o amgylch y campws a sgwrsio gydag aelodau staff eich adran academaidd.
Ewch i'n tudalen digwyddiadau Clirio i gael gwybod mwy.
Mae Abertawe'n ddinas arfordirol fywiog lle gall myfyrwyr fanteisio'n llawn ar fywyd y ddinas wrth fwynhau’r traeth hefyd.
Fel prifysgol gyda dau gampws, mae myfyrwyr yn dod yn rhan o'r gymuned yn gyflym lle maent yn cael y profiad cartrefol o gartref oddi cartref.
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o opsiynau llety myfyrwyr sy'n addas ar gyfer gwahanol ffyrdd o fyw, yn ogystal â dros 150 o wahanol glybiau chwaraeon a chymdeithasau i ymuno â nhw, felly mae rhywbeth at ddant pawb!
Darganfyddwch pam mae pobl yn caru Prifysgol Abertawe.
O gyd-letywyr a chyd-fyfyrwyr i dimau chwaraeon a chymdeithasau, mae digon o gyfleoedd i chi gwrdd â phobl o'r un anian a gwneud ffrindiau.
Mae llu o ddigwyddiadau, gweithgareddau cymdeithasol, a nosweithiau allan lle gallwch chi feithrin cyfeillgarwch a chwrdd â phobl newydd.
Darganfyddwch fywyd myfyriwr yma .
Mae mynd i’r brifysgol yn amser cyffrous ond mae’n newid mawr ac mae’n bwysig gwneud yn siŵr bod systemau cymorth cywir yn eu lle yn y brifysgol rydych chi am fynd iddi.
Yn Abertawe mae gennym amrywiaeth o wasanaethau cymorth yn ymwneud â llwyddiant academaidd, cyllid, cyflogadwyedd, lles a mwy.
Rydym yn darparu gwybodaeth, cyngor, arweiniad a chefnogaeth i alluogi pob myfyriwr i ddatblygu a chyflawni ei lawn botensial.
Darganfyddwch ein holl wasanaethau cymorth yma .
Am restr lawn o Gwestiynau Cyffredin am fywyd prifysgol a'r broses Glirio ewch i'n tudalen we Cwestiynau Cyffredin Clirio .
Darganfyddwch ddinas Abertawe, yr ydym yn gobeithio y byddwch yn ei dewis i fod yn gartref newydd i chi dros yr ychydig flynyddoedd nesaf.
O'r Mwmbwls i'r Chwarter Morwrol, fe welwch ddinas sydd â digonedd o swyn a chymeriad.
Fe glywch chi hyn drwy’r amser, ond nid yw’n or-ddweud dweud bod mynd i’r brifysgol yn newid bywyd.
Dyma’ch amser chi i wneud atgofion anhygoel a ffrindiau gydol oes.
Mae Elen yn un o'n cyn-fyfyrwyr sydd wedi mwynhau ei hamser yn Abertawe.
Gwrandewch ar ei phrofiad a pam y dewisodd Abertawe.
Gweler mwy o straeon gan ein myfyrwyr i ddarganfod sut beth yw profiad y myfyriwr mewn gwirionedd.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/rhieni-a-gwarcheidwaid:
Fel rhiant, gwarcheidwad neu rywun sydd â dyletswyddau gofalu, byddwch chi'n un o'r ffynonellau pwysicaf a mwyaf dibynadwy o wybodaeth a chyngor i'ch plentyn.
Mae penderfynu mynd i'r Brifysgol yn gam mawr yn ei daith tuag at fod yn annibynnol ac er bod hwn yn amser cyffrous, rydym yn deall y gall fod yn heriol hefyd.
Bydd yr wybodaeth ganlynol yn eich helpu i ddeall y broses yn well fel y gallwch gynllunio ymlaen llaw a chefnogi'ch plentyn i wneud y penderfyniad iawn.
Byddem yn argymell eich bod yn dechrau ymchwilio i brifysgolion adeg y gwanwyn, a fydd yn rhoi digon o amser i chi gyfyngu ar eich dewisiadau a mynd i unrhyw ddigwyddiadau megis arddangosiadau neu ddiwrnodau agored, cyn cyflwyno cais drwy UCAS.
Mae gennym ganllaw defnyddiol ar sut i gwblhau eich cais UCAS , sy’n cynnwys gwybodaeth am ddyddiadau allweddol, geirdaon a sut i gyflwyno cais, yn ogystal â chanllaw ar sut i ysgrifennu eich datganiad personol ar gyfer UCAS .
Gwanwyn / Haf : Ymchwiliwch i'r cwrs
Haf / Hydref : Mynychu confensiynau a Diwrnodau Agored UCAS
Medi - Ionawr : Gwnewch gais
Dydd Mercher olaf Ionawr : dyddiad cau ar gyfer ceisiadau UCAS
Er nad yw'r broses ymgeisio ar gyfer myfyrwyr rhyngwladol yn dilyn amserlen benodol o ddyddiadau, fel y mae ar gyfer ein myfyrwyr cartref, mae'n rhaid cadw at nifer o derfynau amser cyn y gellir derbyn myfyriwr yn llwyddiannus a chofrestru ar un o'n cyrsiau, gan gynnwys cyflwyno cais, talu blaendal y cwrs, a chael CAS.
Ewch i'n tudalen Cadarnhad Derbyn i Astudio am ragor o wybodaeth.
Ymchwiliwch i'r cwrs, ysgoloriaethau a bywyd yn y Deyrnas Unedig
Ymgysylltwch â'n hasiantau a’n myfyrwyr rhyngwladol presennol
Gwneud Cais
Derbyn cynigion gan brifysgolion
Cais am lety
Talu'r blaendal, cyflwyno cais am CAS a FISA
Cynllunio taith eich plentyn i Abertawe a chofrestru ar gwrs
I rieni a myfyrwyr, rydym yn gwybod y gall y gost o fynd i’r brifysgol fod yn un o'r prif bryderon.
I'ch helpu i ddeall y gost gyffredinol o fynd i’r brifysgol, rydym wedi casglu gwybodaeth am bopeth sy'n ymwneud â chyllid, gan gynnwys y costau sy'n gysylltiedig â chwrs eich plentyn, ac unrhyw gymorth ariannol sydd ar gael iddynt gan gynnwys benthyciadau, bwrsariaethau ac ysgoloriaethau.
Mae gennym hyd yn oed dudalen costau byw yn Abertawe , i egluro'r costau byw cyffredinol yn ein dinas.
Rydym yn gwybod y gall y syniad o'ch plentyn yn byw oddi cartref fod yn frawychus, ond mae gan Brifysgol Abertawe ddigon o opsiynau i wneud iddo deimlo'n gartrefol!
Gall ddod o hyd i’r llety cywir wneud gwahaniaeth go iawn o ran ymgartrefu, dyna pam mae’n bwysig eich bod chi’n ystyried y ffactorau llety pwysicaf ar gyfer eich plentyn.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n cynnig amrywiaeth o dai i fyfyrwyr ar draws pedwar lleoliad, gan gynnwys ardaloedd dynodedig megis tawel, un rhyw, di-alcohol, aeddfed a chyfrwng Cymraeg.
Mae tîm diogelwch 24 awr ar y campws yn ogystal â rhwydwaith cymorth dynodedig sy'n gallu cynnig cymorth a chyngor ar bob adeg.
Mae iechyd a lles ein myfyrwyr yn hollbwysig i ni a dyna pam mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n cynnig nifer o wasanaethau i gynorthwyo'ch plentyn drwy gydol ei amser yn y Brifysgol.
Yn ogystal â'r gwasanaethau hyn, mae'r Tîm Cymorth i Fyfyrwyr yno i wneud yn siŵr bod gan holl fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Abertawe gyfleoedd cyfartal.
Mae'r tîm yn cynnig gwasanaethau i fyfyrwyr sy'n profi anawsterau, ynghyd â phroblemau hirdymor mwy cymhleth.
Mae'r rhain yn cynnwys namau synhwyrol neu gorfforol, cyflyrau meddygol hirdymor, anawsterau dysgu penodol, cyflyrau sbectrwm awtistig a chyflyrau iechyd meddwl.
I lawer o'n myfyrwyr, mynd i’r brifysgol yw'r tro cyntaf iddynt fyw oddi cartref.Gall y newid hwn arwain at gymysgedd o emosiynau, ond mae sawl ffordd y gallwch chi helpu i wneud y newid hwn yn esmwyth i'ch plentyn.
Mae ein canllaw isod ar gefnogi eich plentyn o'r ysgol i'r brifysgol, yn cynnwys nifer o awgrymiadau gwych ar sut i reoli'r newid, a gallwch gofrestru ar gyfer ein cylchlythyr (gyda mwy o awgrymiadau gwych a nodiadau atgoffa defnyddiol trwy gydol y broses cyflwyno cais), a fydd yn rhoi mynediad i chi at ein Canllaw i Rieni sydd ar gael am ddim.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig cyngor ar sut i fynd i’r afael â’r broses os yw eich plentyn yn cyflwyno cais i'r brifysgol drwy Glirio.
Bydd ffïoedd dysgu'n dibynnu ar a yw eich plentyn yn fyfyriwr yn y DU neu'n fyfyriwr rhyngwladol.
Yn y DU, mae llawer o gymorth ariannol ar gael i helpu'ch plentyn i sicrhau ei le ym myd Addysg Uwch.
Ewch yn ôl i'n hadran Ffïoedd a Chyllid i ddysgu mwy.
Ewch yn ôl i'n hadran Llety'r Brifysgol i archwilio'r ystod eang o opsiynau llety sydd ar gael.
Mae ein hadran Gwasanaethau Cymorth i Fyfyrwyr yn amlinellu'r nifer enfawr o wasanaethau sydd ar gael i unrhyw fyfyriwr sy'n dioddef anawsterau personol.
Cyfeiriwch eich plentyn at ein gwasanaethau BywydCampws os yw’n cysylltu â chi, mae ein timau ar gael i gefnogi eich plentyn drwy gynnig arweiniad, cyngor a chymorth mewn amgylchedd cyfeillgar a chyfforddus.
Gall ymweld wyneb yn wyneb, cysylltu dros y ffôn neu drwy e-bost.
Mae’r Tîm Cymorth i Fyfyrwyr yn cynnig gwasanaethau i fyfyrwyr sy'n profi anawsterau emosiynol a phersonol, ynghyd â phroblemau hirdymor mwy cymhleth.
Mae'n cynnig arbenigedd o ran ymdrin â namau synhwyrol neu gorfforol, cyflyrau meddygol hirdymor, anawsterau dysgu penodol, cyflyrau sbectrwm awtistig a chyflyrau iechyd meddwl.
Mae mynd i Ddiwrnod Agored gyda'ch plentyn yn ffordd wych o weld sut brofiad yw bywyd myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Edrychwch ar ein tudalennau diwrnodau agored israddedig, i weld ein digwyddiadau sydd ar ddod ac i gadw eich lle.
Mae ein Cyngor Clirio i Rieni a Gwarcheidwaid yn rhoi i chi’r holl wybodaeth sydd ei hangen arnoch i helpu eich plentyn, os bydd yn cyflwyno cais drwy Glirio.
Am restr lawn o Gwestiynau Cyffredin, ewch i'n tudalen we Cwestiynau Cyffredin Rhieni a Gwarcheidwaid .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/diwrnodau-agored:
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at eich croesawu i'r campws ar ein Diwrnod Agored lle gallwch gwrdd â'ch darlithwyr, archwilio Abertawe a sgwrsio gyda myfyrwyr presennol.
Os ydych chi'n gobeithio ymuno â ni ym Medi drwy'r broses Glirio byddwn yn cynnal nifer o ddiwrnodau agored rhwng 15 - 18 Awst ac ar 29 Awst .
Dewch i'n gweld a darganfyddwch sut beth yw bywyd fel myfyriwr Prifysgol Abertawe.
Bydd cyfle i fynd ar daith o'r campws a sgwrsio â staff yng nghyfadran eich dewis o gwrs.
Mae'r digwyddiadau hyn yn cael eu cadw ar gyfer myfyrwyr Clirio sy'n ymuno â ni ym Medi 2025.
Os ydych yn gwneud cais prifysgol ar gyfer Medi 2026, ymunwch â ni yn un o'n diwrnodau agored yn yr Hydref neu'r Gwanwyn.
Oes - gofynnwn i chi archebu lle o flaen llaw a dod â'ch tocyn gyda chi.
Bydd y Diwrnod Agored yn agor am 08:30 ac yn gorffen tua 16:00 ond gallwch drefnu’r diwrnod yn ôl eich gofynion chi.
Bydd Diwrnodau Agored y Gwanwyn ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe'n cynnig cynnwys a darpariaeth sy'n debyg i'r hyn a gynigir gan brifysgolion eraill a allai ddefnyddio'r termau 'Diwrnod i Ymgeiswyr' neu 'Diwrnod i Ddeiliaid Cynnig'.
Na, nid oes angen tocyn ar eich teulu a ffrindiau.
Am restr lawn o Gwestiynau Cyffredin, ewch i'n tudalen gwe Cwestiynau Cyffredin.
Yn ogystal â'n diwrnodau agored, mae yna hefyd nifer o ddigwyddiadau ar gyfer meysydd diddordeb penodol.
Gobeithiwn eich gweld chi yno!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig/gwneud-cais:
Chwiliwch am eich cwrs israddedig gyda'n chwilotydd A - Z
P'un a ydych chi'n paratoi i wneud cais , eisoes wedi gwneud cais , wedi cael cynnig neu wedi derbyn eich cynnig eisoes, rydym ni yma i helpu.
Mae gwneud cais am Brifysgol yn brofiad cyffrous, ond mae'n siŵr y bydd gennych chi gwestiynau ar hyd y ffordd.
Mae gan UCAS lawer o wybodaeth gyffredinol am wneud cais am gwrs.
Dysgwch gan fyfyrwyr eraill sydd wedi cyrraedd Prifysgol Abertawe, ac os na allwch ddod o hyd i bopeth sydd ei angen arnoch yma, cysylltwch gyda un o'n tîm.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at eich croesawu chi!
Dewch o hyd i'ch cwrs fan hyn
Llety
Polisïau, gweithdrefnau a Chôd Ymarfer

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig/ysgoloriaethau:
Mae'r dudalen hon yn cynnwys manylion ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau sydd ar gael i fyfyrwyr Israddedig sy'n astudio ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Defnyddiwch y dolenni isod er mwyn cael mwy o wybodaeth am ysgoloriaethau penodol.
Mae ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau ar gael i fyfyrwyr sy'n dewis astudio rhan o'u cwrs trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg lle bo modd.
Mae hefyd gan y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol ysgoloriaethau cyfrwng Cymraeg y gallwch wneud cais amdanynt.
Rydym yn croesawu ceisiadau yn y Gymraeg a ni fydd cais a gyflwynir yn y Gymraeg yn cael ei drin yn llai ffafriol na’r Saesneg.
Costau bob dydd
Cyflwynwch ymholiad am gwrs israddedig gan ddefnyddio ein ffurflen
Defnyddiwch ein A-Y a chwiliwch am eich cwrs

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig/cysylltu-a-derbyniadau:
Os oes gennych chi ymholiad israddedig cysylltwch â ni drwy’r ffyrdd canlynol:
Ewch i’n tudalennau ‘Ymgeisio’ israddedig am ragor o wybodaeth am y broses o wneud cais.
Gallwch ddod o hyd iddyn nhw yma
Darllenwch rai ohonynt yma

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig/prosbectws-israddedig:
Fformat testun cyfoethog 2026: Prosbectws Israddedig 2026 Prifysgol Abertawe
Fformat testun cyfoethog 2025: Prosbectws Israddedig 2025 Prifysgol Abertawe
Gall Canolfan Drawsgrifio Prifysgol Abertawe greu fersiynau Braille a phrint bras o’r prosbectws yn ôl yr angen.
Gallem gynnig y gwasanaeth hwnnw ar gais darpar fyfyrwyr (ac yn rhad ac am ddim).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/cofrestrwch-am-diweddariadau-ebost:
Darganfyddwch beth sy'n digwydd yn Abertawe trwy gofrestru i gael diweddariadau e-bost.
Pan fyddwch yn cofrestru, byddwch yn derbyn gwybodaeth ddefnyddiol, gan gynnwys manylion am Ddiwrnodau Agored, cyngor ar wneud cais, mewnwelediad i fywyd myfyriwr a llawer mwy!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig:
Croeso i Astudiaethau Ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe!
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn cynnig astudiaeth ôl-raddedig arobryn mewn lleoliad arfordirol godidog.
O raddau meistr i astudiaeth PhD, rydym yn cynnig rhaglenni ôl-raddedig mewn amrywiaeth eang o feysydd pwnc.
Rydym yn parhau i gael ein cydnabod am effaith ein hymchwil sy'n gwneud gwahaniaethau gwirioneddol, cadarnhaol i fywydau pobl ar draws y byd.
Mae ein holl gyrsiau ôl-raddedig yn cael eu llywio gan y datblygiadau diweddaraf mewn ymchwil ac arloesi.
Darganfyddwch sut mae ymchwil Abertawe yn newid bywydau ar draws y byd heddiw.
Archwiliwch ein hamrywiaeth o gyrsiau ôl-raddedig a addysgir.
Archwiliwch ein hystod o gyrsiau ymchwil ôl-raddedig.
Dysgwch fwy am y cymorth ariannol sydd ar gael i chi yn abertawe.
Archebu neu lawrlwytho copi o'n prosbectws 2025.
Ymunwch â ni ar gyfer un o'n digwyddiadau ôl-raddedig
Clywch gan ein myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig am fywyd yn Abertawe.
Roedd gan Brifysgol Abertawe'r holl offer oedd eu hangen arnaf i lwyddo'n academaidd ac mae mor agos at barciau a thraethau gwych – Doeddwn i ddim eisiau astudio yn unman arall.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Mae Abertawe'n darparu digon o gefnogaeth gan ddarlithwyr, goruchwylwyr a staff y llyfrgell, gan sicrhau eich bod yn teimlo bod gennych gefnogaeth.
Fy nghyngor i israddedigion sy'n ystyried aros ar gyfer eu hastudiaethau ôl-raddedig yw mynychu diwrnod agored ôl-raddedig i ddysgu mwy am y cyrsiau a'r cyfleoedd sydd ar gael

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/addysgir:
Dewch o hyd i ysgoloriaethau sydd ar gael

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/ymchwil:
Chwilio’n uniongyrchol am academyddion sy’n gweithio yn eich maes chi.
Gweld ein hysgoloriaethau ymchwil
Dewch o hyd i fwy o wybodaeth am sut i wneud cais

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/diwrnodagored:
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth am gyrsiau ôl-raddedig, cyllid a'n digwyddiadau nesaf, rhowch eich manylion isod:
Cofrestrwch eich diddordeb yn ein Diwrnod Agored nesaf

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/sut-i-wneud-cais:
P'un a ydych yn paratoi i wneud cais ar gyfer astudio ôl-raddedig , eisoes wedi gwneud cais am gwrs ôl-raddedig , wedi cael eich cynnig ar gyfer gradd ôl-raddedig neu eisoes wedi derbyn eich cynnig ar gyfer astudio ôl-raddedig , rydym yma i'ch helpu.
Os na allwch gael hyd i bopeth sydd ei angen arnoch yma, anfonwch e-bost i'r tîm derbyniadau .
Dysgwch beth all byw yn Abertawe ei olygu i chi.
Edrychwn ymlaen at eich croesawu i'n cymuned ôl-raddedig!
Cyrsiau ôl-raddedig a Addysgir
Llety i fyfyrwyr ôl-raddedig

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/sut-i-wneud-cais/llwybr-carlam:
Gobeithiwn eich bod wedi mwynhau eich amser yma ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe a byddem wrth ein bodd pe baech yn aros gyda ni ychydig yn hirach.
Mae ein cyrsiau meistr yn ffordd wych o wella eich rhagolygon proffesiynol a'ch arbenigedd.
Diddordeb astudio am feistr?
Wel, mae newyddion gwych gennym ni!
Rydym yn gyffrous i gynnig opsiwn ymgeisio llwybr carlam i chi i astudio un o'n graddau meistr gan ddechrau ym mis Medi 2025.
Gwnewch gais gan ddefnyddio'r cyfarwyddiadau isod, a byddwch yn derbyn penderfyniad o fewn 48 awr!
Chwiliwch i weld a yw un o'r rhaglenni meistr sydd ar gael yn addas i chi a'ch diddordebau.
Sgroliwch i lawr i weld ein rhestr o gyrsiau sydd ar gael ar Lwybr Carlam.
O'r dudalen cwrs berthnasol, cliciwch ar y botwm Ymgeisio a dilynwch y cyfarwyddiadau i gyrraedd tudalen cyflwyno cais Porth Dysgwyr Prifysgol Abertawe.
Dylai fod gennych gyfrif Porth Dysgwyr i gwblhau cais:
Llenwch y ffurflen gais.
Fel myfyriwr presennol Prifysgol Abertawe
Os ydych eisoes wedi cyflwyno cais am Lwybr Carlam o fis Medi 2025, nid oes angen i chi gyflwyno cais arall drwy ein porth newydd.
Byddai hyn ond yn angenrheidiol os ydych yn penderfynu gwneud cais am gyrsiau ychwanegol.
Ydych chi wedi dechrau eich cais am radd Meistr neu'n meddwl am gyflwyno cais am radd Meistr?
Ewch i'n Sesiynau Ceisiadau Llyfrgell yn ystod yr amseroedd canlynol i gwblhau eich cais gyda chyngor arbenigol gan y staff Derbyn.
Dewch i un o'n digwyddiadau agored ôl-raddedig i ddarganfod mwy am ein cyrsiau, opsiynau ariannu a'n cymuned ôl-raddedig gyfeillgar.
Cofrestrwch nawr
Pwnc gradd israddedig gofynnol
MA Llenyddiaeth Saesneg
MA Seiberdroseddu a Therfysgaeth
Daearyddiaeth, Gwyddor yr Amgylchedd, Bioleg, Biowyddorau, Botaneg, Cemeg, Cyfrifiadureg, Ecoleg, Mathemateg, Eigioneg, Ffiseg
MSc Cyfrifiadureg
Mathemateg
MSc Iechyd Cyhoeddus a Hybu Iechyd
Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol, Iechyd Poblogaethau a'r Gwyddorau Meddygol, Meddygaeth (i Raddedigion), Nyrsio, Fferylliaeth
MSc Rheoli Gofal Iechyd
Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol, Daearyddiaeth Ddynol, Meddygaeth (i Raddedigion), Nyrsio, Fferylliaeth, Iechyd Poblogaethau a'r Gwyddorau Meddygol, Seicoleg, Polisi Cymdeithasol, Cymdeithaseg, Gwyddor Chwaraeon, Geneteg, Geneteg Feddygol, Microbioleg & Imiwnoleg
Gwyddorau Meddygol Cymhwysol, Biocemeg, Geneteg, Ffarmacoleg Feddygol, Iechyd Poblogaethau a'r Gwyddorau Meddygol, Gwyddorau Biolegol, Bioleg, Meddygaeth (i Raddedigion), Nyrsio, Fferylliaeth
"Roeddwn wrth fy modd pan wnes i ddod o hyd i MSc mewn Nanofeddygaeth a gynigir gan Ysgol Feddygol Prifysgol Abertawe ac yn hapusach fyth pan gefais fy nerbyn.
Yn ystod fy nghwrs, cefais brofiad dysgu hynod werthfawr yn ogystal â boddhad o ddatblygu fy ngwybodaeth a sgiliau ymchwil.
Roedd y tiwtoriaid wir yn gymwynasgar, a byddaf bob amser yn cofio’n hoffus ein holl drafodaethau academaidd yn ogystal â’n sgyrsiau cyfeillgar."

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/ysgoloriaethau:
Rydym yn deall bod cost eich astudiaethau yn un o’r ffactorau pwysicaf wrth benderfynu ar radd ôl-radd .
Dyna pam roedd gennym dros £12 miliwn ar gael ar gyfer ysgoloriaethau ôl-raddedig y llynedd.
Archwiliwch eich opsiynau heddiw:
Mae Postgrad Solutions yn cynnig pum bwrsariaeth gwerth £2,000 yr un.
Dysga fwy a gwiria dy gymhwysedd ar eu gwefan .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n brifysgol a arweinir gan ymchwil sydd wedi bod yn gwneud gwahaniaeth ers 1920.
Mae ein cymuned amrywiol a chroesawgar yn ffynnu ar archwilio a darganfod, a cheir cydbwysedd o addysgu ac ymchwil rhagorol, ynghyd ag ansawdd bywyd gwych.
O ganlyniad i’n hymrwymiad i ymchwil a buddion ar gyfer y byd go iawn, dyfarnwyd bod 86% o ymchwil gyffredinol y brifysgol yn arwain y ffordd yn fyd-eang neu'n ardderchog yn rhyngwladol yn y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil diweddaraf (REF 2021).
Prifysgol Abertawe yw Prifysgol y Flwyddyn yng Nghymru yn ôl The Times Good University Guide 2025.
Y gyfran o raddedigion mewn cyflogaeth, yn ymgymryd ag astudiaethau pellach a/neu weithgareddau eraill yw 94% (HESA 2024).
Mae myfyrwyr sy'n astudio yma yn mwynhau, yn cael eu hysbrydoli ac yn cyflawni - sydd oll yn rhoi cyfle gwell iddynt sicrhau rhagolygon cyflogaeth rhagorol.
Mae ein campysau glan môr trawiadol yn ein gwneud ni'n lleoliad dymunol ar gyfer myfyrwyr a staff o bedwar ban byd, ac mae ein cymuned amlddiwylliannol yn cynnig safbwynt byd-eang, gan alluogi'r rhai sy'n ymuno â ni i ddatblygu'r sgiliau a'r wybodaeth a fydd yn eu rhoi ar ben ffordd tuag at yrfaoedd llwyddiannus a gwerthfawr.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/cysylltu-a-derbyniadau:
Os oes gennych chi ymholiad ôl-raddedig cysylltwch â ni drwy’r ffyrdd canlynol:
Ewch i’n tudalennau ‘Ymgeisio’ ôl-raddedig am ragor o wybodaeth am y broses o wneud cais.
A-Y o'n cyrsiau
A-Y o'n rhaglenni

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/prosbectws-olraddedig:
Gallwn gynnig y gwasanaeth hwnnw ar gais darpar fyfyrwyr (yn rhad ac am ddim).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/bywyd-myfyriwr:
P'un ai eich bod yn wyllt am chwaraeon, yn dwlu ar ddiwylliant neu'n anturiaethwr awyr agored, bydd digon o bethau i'ch cadw'n brysur rhwng darlithoedd.
120 o gymdeithasau , 50 o glybiau chwaraeon a 12 mis o ddigwyddiadau na ddylech eu colli.
Os ydych eisiau drws i fyd y cyfryngau, dechrau hobi newydd neu leisio'ch barn ar rywbeth sy'n bwysig i chi, mae ffordd i bawb ymuno.
Defnyddiwch ein ffurflen ymholiadau
Dysgwch sut i wneud cais yma

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/pam-astudio:
Rydych chi wedi darllen y cyfan am yr ymchwil addysgu arobryn a safon fyd-eang sy’n digwydd ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, dyma gyfle i chi ddarganfod mwy am ddinas Abertawe yn ei holl ogoniant.
O'r Mwmbwls i'r Ardal Forol, darganfyddwch ddinas llawn swyn a chymeriad.
Mae'n gyflym ac yn hawdd cyrraedd lle mae angen i chi fod yn enwedig gyda'r Unibus a'n Cynllun Llogi Beiciau Prifysgol Abertawe poblogaidd.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod chi'n edrych ar restr 10 peth gorau Undeb y Myfyrwyr i'w gwneud yn Abertawe i gael y cyflwyniad orau i'r ddinas.
Gyda dim ond tua 300,000 o drigolion, nid Abertawe yw'r ddinas fwyaf yng Nghymru, ond mae ganddi bersonoliaeth fawr!
O'i dechreuadau diymhongar yn y diwydiant copr, mae'r ddinas borthladd fechan hon wedi ffynnu i fod yn ganolfan amlddiwylliannol fywiog sy'n cynnwys amwynderau metropolitan yng nghanol tirweddau naturiol syfrdanol.
P'un a ydych yn hoffi crwydro'r awyr agored, mwynhau ychydig o ddiwylliant, neu unrhyw beth yn y canol, mae gan Abertawe rywbeth bach at ddant pawb.
Ond fyddech chi ddim yn deall hynny ...Nid nes eich bod chi wedi bod yma.
Pa bynnag ffordd y byddwch chi’n cyrraedd, bydd croeso cynnes yma i chi.
Mae Elen yn un o'r myfyrwyr niferus Cymraeg sydd wedi dewis astudio gyda ni.
Gwrandewch ar ei phrofiad a pham y dewisodd Abertawe.
Mae gan Abertawe sîn gerddoriaeth egnïol sy'n parhau i dyfu.
Mae gan y ddinas amrywiaeth o leoliadau ac mae'n gartref i wyliau a digwyddiadau cerddorol trwy gydol y flwyddyn, gan gynnwys Dawns Haf Undeb y Myfyrwyr (yn bendant ddim yn un i'w golli!) ac mae Menter Iaith Abertawe a Tŷ Tawe yn cynnal gigs Cymraeg.
Ychwanegiad mwyaf newydd Abertawe yw arena 3,500 o gapasiti yng nghanol y ddinas sy'n cynnig adloniant i bawb.
Mae Abertawe'n ganolfan fywiog ar gyfer celf a diwylliant.
Crwydrwch galeri'r Glynn Vivian neu ymweld â Chanolfan Celfyddydau Taliesin.
Gallwch ymweld â chartref Dylan Thomas, ac ymweld â Siop Tŷ Tawe i bori drwy’r silff lyfrau am y nofelau Cymraeg diweddaraf.
Dilynwch Wayne a Robyn ar eu taith fwyd wrth iddyn nhw gael blas ar Abertawe!
Bydd eich Undeb Myfyrwyr yn sicrhau eich bod yn cael y gorau o fywyd y campws!
Ar gampws Singleton, yn JC's gallwch chi wylio gemau sgrin fawr, cymryd rhan yn y cwis dafarn wythnosol neu fentro ar lwyfan yn y noson meic agored ar nos Fawrth.
Os ydych chi ar Gampws y Bae, byddwch chi’n gwylio bob gêm yn Nhafarn Tawe, a gallwch ymuno yn y cwis dafarn nos Sul a’r dewis eang o nosweithiau thema.
Eisiau gwybodaeth am fywyd myfyrwyr ?
Siaradwch ag un o'n llysgenhadon myfyrwyr cyfeillgar:
Cymerwch ran!
Dewch i gwrdd â ffrindiau newydd a rhoi cynnig ar bethau newydd gyda bron i 50 o glybiau chwaraeon a thros 150 o gymdeithasau yn cael eu cynnig gan gynnwys y Gymdeithas Gymraeg, Aelwyd yr Elyrch, Rygbi Tawe, a'r Gymdeithas Feddygol Gymraeg.
Daliwch don ar un o’r 3 traeth baner las, cwtshwch lan wrth ymyl y tân traeth clyd, neu archwiliwch fryniau a dyffrynnoedd dirifedi’r Bannau Brycheiniog.
Os ydych chi'n un ar gyfer antur, mae un rownd bob cornel yn Abertawe!
Dilynwch anturiaethau ein myfyrwyr wrth iddynt arddangos eu hoff fannau awyr agored yn Abertawe yn eu blogiau a flogiau.
Dewch o hyd i’ch llety perffaith
Ymunwch â’n cymuned chwaraeon
Dewch i weld popeth!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ein-storiau-myfyrwyr:
Mae llu o fyfyrwyr fel chi ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Darllenwch eu straeon isod i gael blas ar brofiad myfyriwr.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/bywyd-y-campws:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn pontio dau gampws arobryn ar naill ben glannau Abertawe.
Lleolir Campws Parc Singleton mewn parcdir aeddfed a gerddi botanegol, sydd â golygfa traeth Bae Abertawe.
Adeiladwyd Campws y Bae ar y traeth ar ochr ddwyreiniol Abertawe.
Mae ein campws deuol amlddiwylliannol yn cynnig cyfleoedd o bob math i fyfyrwyr, staff a'r gymuned, o fewn awyrgylch cyfeillgar ac anffurfiol sy'n nodweddiadol o "brofiad Abertawe".

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/chwaraeon:
Yma ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydym yn credu ym mhŵer chwaraeon i wella bywydau ac adeiladu cymunedau.
Rydym yn hyrwyddo chwaraeon i bawb gyda'r nod o gynnig amrywiaeth eang o gyfleoedd i'n myfyrwyr a'n staff gymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon a gweithgareddau corfforol a fydd yn eu helpu i berfformio ar eu gorau.
P'un a yw chwaraeon a gweithgarwch corfforol yn bethau newydd i chi neu eich bod yn athletwr elît, bydd y cyfleoedd cywir ar gael i chi yma yn Abertawe.
Mae ein rhaglen Bod yn ACTIF yn cynnig gweithgareddau ar lefel dechreuwr i'ch rhoi ar ben ffordd os nad ydych yn barod i ymuno ag un o'n 56 o glybiau chwaraeon.
Fodd bynnag, os ydych chi am ychydig o gystadleuaeth hwyl a chyfeillgar, gallwch chi ystyried ein Cynghreiriau Cymdeithasol .
Os ydych am gystadlu ar lefel uwch, rydym yn cynnig clybiau chwaraeon cystadleuol a hamdden, a rhaglenni perfformiad uchel o'r radd flaenaf mewn rhai chwaraeon allweddol.
Gwelwch ein Fframwaith Strategol Chwaraeon
Darganfod mwy yma
Dysgu mwy yma

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cynaliadwyedd/cymerwch-ran:
Yma ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, mae bywyd prifysgol yn fwy nag astudio'n unig.
Dyna pam mae'r Tîm Cynaliadwyedd yn gweithio'n galed i gynnig llawer o gyfleoedd gwahanol i GYMRYD RHAN gyda'n gwaith cynaliadwyedd.
Drwy ddod a chymryd rhan yn ein digwyddiadau a'n gweithgareddau, byddwch yn helpu i wella ein hamgylchedd a'n credadwyaeth gymdeithasol, yn ogystal â chael cyfle i gwrdd â phobl newydd, gwella eich cyflogadwyedd a chodi eich ymwybyddiaeth o faterion mwyaf dybryd heddiw.
Hoffech chi ennill gwobrau am ofalu am eich llesiant, am wneud dewisiadau cynaliadwy ac am helpu i fynd i’r afael â’r argyfwng hinsawdd?
Fel prifysgol, rydym wedi ymrwymo i leihau ein heffaith ar yr amgylchedd ac rydym eisiau gwobrwyo’r staff a’r myfyrwyr hynny sy’n ein helpu i gyflawni ein nod.
Dyna pam rydym wedi ail-lansio ein rhaglen SWell ar gyfer ein staff a’n myfyrwyr er mwyn esgor ar effaith fwy fyth a gwireddu’r ymrwymiadau yn ein Strategaeth Cynaliadwyedd ac Argyfwng Hinsawdd .
Gwefan ac ap yw SWell lle gallwch ennill ‘Pwyntiau Gwyrdd’ trwy gofnodi’r pethau cadarnhaol a wnewch; boed hynny o ran cynorthwyo bywyd gwyllt, dewis cludiant isel ei garbon neu ofalu am eich lles meddyliol.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn cofrestru er mwyn cynorthwyo eich Cyfadran neu eich PSU i gystadlu ag adrannau eraill, a gweithiwch fel tîm i gyrraedd y brig.
Mwyaf yn y byd o bwyntiau gwyrdd a enillwch, mwyaf tebygol fyddwch chi o ennill gwobr!
Gwyliwch fideo byr sy'n egluro mwy am sut mae SWell yn gweithio yma.
Bob mis, byddwn yn rhoi 20 o dalebau sy’n werth £10 yr un i’r rhai a fydd wedi perfformio orau.
Bydd modd dewis o blith y talebau canlynol: Just ONE TREE , National Book Tokens , M&S , y Parc Chwaraeon , yr Odeon , Undeb y Myfyrwyr a Root .
Hefyd, ar ddiwedd y flwyddyn academaidd bydd y timau buddugol o blith ein staff a’n myfyrwyr yn cael rhodd o £500 i’w rhoi i elusen.
Gellir dewis o blith Platfform , Yr Ymddiriedolaethau Natur , Goleudy , Discovery a Fareshare .
Cofrestrwch here trwy ddefnyddio eich cyfeiriad e-bost prifysgol er mwyn dechrau creu effaith gadarnhaol neu lawrlwythwch ap SWell ar iOS ac Android.
Rydym yn trefnu digwyddiadau a gweithgareddau amrywiol trwy gydol y flwyddyn i fyfyrwyr a staff gymryd rhan ynddynt.
Mae'r rhain yn amrywio o sesiynau glanhau’r traeth, sesiynau cadwraeth wythnosol i wirfoddolwyr, reidiau beic dan arweiniad, gweithdai, teithiau cerdded natur a thyfu bwyd ar y campws, ac enwi ychydig yn unig!
Gall myfyrwyr a staff ddarganfod beth sy'n digwydd trwy ymweld â'n tudalen Eventbrite i gael mwy o wybodaeth ac i archebu digwyddiadau.
Gall myfyrwyr a staff hefyd ymuno â'n grŵp Gwirfoddolwyr Cadwraeth Twyni Crymlyn ar WhatsApp.
Gallwch gyflwyno cais i ymuno drwy e-bostio Sustainability@abertawe.ac.uk
Chwilio am awyr iach, ymarfer corff ysgafn, a chyfle i wneud gwahaniaeth gwirioneddol?
Ymunwch â’n glanhau traeth misol a helpwch ni i gadw Twyni Crymlyn yn arbennig!
Mae'r warchodfa natur unigryw hon, wrth ymyl Campws y Bae, o bwysigrwydd cenedlaethol oherwydd ei bywyd gwyllt amrywiol.
Yn anffodus, mae sbwriel yn cael ei olchi i’r lan gyda phob llanw, ac heb ein cymorth ni, bydd yn aros yno am byth.
Nid yw glanhau traethau yn ymwneud â thacluswch yn unig—mae’n ffordd wych o werthfawrogi’r amgylchedd prydferth hwn, ymlacio yn yr awyr iach, a gadael yr ardal mewn gwell cyflwr nag oedd hi pan gyrhaeddoch.
Mae Tyfu Tawe, ein prosiect garddio i fyfyrwyr a staff, wedi codi gwelyau ar y ddau gampws ar gyfer tyfu llysiau a pherlysiau.
Yn ogystal ag addysgu sgiliau garddio a chynnig y cyfle i gwrdd â phobl o'r un bryd, rhoddir y cynnyrch sy'n cael ei dyfu i ddigwyddiadau tymhorol yr Oergell Gymunedol.
Cynhelir sesiynau sefydlu hygyrch yn ystod amser cinio bob mis drwy'r flwyddyn ac maent ar agor i bawb, gan gwrdd am 1pm ar ail ddydd Mawrth pob mis ar Gampws Parc Singleton rhwng llety Horton a llety Penmaen, ac ar ail ddydd Iau'r mis yn y gwelyau uchel ger Y Twyni ar Gampws y Bae.
Oes gennych chi fenter gynaliadwyedd neu hoffech chi gynnal digwyddiad sy'n hyrwyddo cynaliadwyedd, di-garbon, amrywiaeth fiolegol neu ymddygiadau sy'n gyfrifol yn amgylcheddol?
Gall cymdeithasau myfyrwyr ac aelodau staff gyflwyno cais i'r Tîm Cynaliadwyedd am Gronfeydd Grantiau Gwyrdd am hyd at £250 ar gyfer prosiectau sy'n ymwneud â chynaliadwyedd.
Os ydych chi'n fyfyriwr sy'n chwilio am swydd i raddedigion?
Eisiau lleoliad gwaith?
Neu angen swydd ran-amser?
Ymwelwch â thudalennau My Uni yma lle mae cyfleoedd i weld swyddi gwyrdd ac i ddilyn gyrfa foddhaus yn y sector diwydiant gwyrdd.
Mae digonedd o Gymdeithasau Myfyrwyr sy'n canolbwyntio ar Gynaliadwyedd y gallwch ddod yn rhan ohonynt: Y Gymdeithas Cadwraeth ac Ecoleg Gweithredu dros Ofal Iechyd Cynaliadwy Abertawe (SWASH) Y Gymdeithas Arddio Y Gymdeithas Goed Y Gymdeithas Lysiau Y Gymdeithas Geowyddoniaeth Cymdeithas yr Economi Gylchol

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/sefydliad-diwylliannol:
Hyrwyddo’r celfyddydau a diwylliant i bawb, meithrin partneriaethau, gwella profiad myfyrwyr.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/bywyd-myfyriwr/undeb:
Mae'r UM yn sefydliad sy’n cael ei arwain gan fyfyrwyr, sy'n golygu ein bod ni yma i gynrychioli ein haelodau.
Fel myfyriwr Prifysgol Abertawe, rwyt ti'n aelod o UM yn awtomatig, felly rwyt ti'n rhan o'n cymuned wych, fawr, amrywiol!
Trwy ni, gallet ti ymuno â chymdeithasau a chlybiau chwaraeon, cael mynediad at gefnogaeth am ddim yn ein Canolfan Cyngor, mwynhau bwyd a diodydd rhad yn ein bariau, a dod i holl ddigwyddiadau gorau'r flwyddyn.
Mae gennym ni chwe Swyddog Llawn-amser etholedig, ac maen nhw’n fyfyrwyr sy'n cael eu hethol gan eu cyd-fyfyrwyr bob blwyddyn i gynrychioli myfyrwyr o ran popeth sy'n gysylltiedig â'r Brifysgol.
Maen nhw'n sicrhau bod y Brifysgol yn ymwybodol o faterion sy'n bwysig i ti, yn cynnal ymgyrchoedd i ddathlu ein cymuned o fyfyrwyr, a brwydro dy gornel.
Felly os oes gennyt ti unrhyw gwestiynau ar eu cyfer, cysyllta â nhw.
Yn y bôn, ein cenhadaeth yw rhoi'r profiad gorau posibl i ti tra dy fod ti'n fyfyriwr yma, a rhoi'r holl gyfleoedd posib i ti lwyddo yn yr hyn a ddaw ar ôl i ti ein gadael.
Mae fy rôl fel Llywydd Undeb y Myfyrwyr yn cwmpasu cyfrifoldebau amrywiol.
Yn bennaf, fi sy'n cymryd yr awenau mewn gweithdrefnau democrataidd a fi yw'r prif gyswllt rhwng yr UM a'r Brifysgol, gan sicrhau cynrychiolaeth deg i'r holl fyfyrwyr.
Rwyf hefyd yn goruchwylio'r tîm o swyddogion amser llawn a rhan-amser ac yn cadeirio Pwyllgor Gwaith UM, sydd ag awdurdod i wneud penderfyniadau sylweddol o fewn yr Undeb.
Yn ogystal, rwyf hefyd yn cadeirio Bwrdd yr Ymddiriedolwyr sy'n cynnwys 9 Ymddiriedolwr, sydd â'r pwerau gwneud penderfyniadau terfynol o fewn Undeb y Myfyrwyr.
Fy rôl flaenorol ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe oedd gweithio fel Arweinydd Myfyrwyr, gan gyflwyno oedolion ifanc i addysg uwch a'u helpu i ddatblygu eu hunain i gyflawni eu nodau a thyfu'n gyfannol.
Os hoffech gysylltu â mi, neu unrhyw un o'r Tîm Swyddogion Llawn Amser, anfonwch e-bost atom fto@swansea-union.co.uk .
Mae Swyddogion Llawn Amser yn Undeb y Myfyrwyr yn cynrychioli myfyrwyr o ran popeth am fywyd Prifysgol.
Bob blwyddyn fel myfyriwr yn Abertawe byddwch yn cael cyfle i sefyll am un o'r swyddi Swyddog Llawn Amser.
Mae pleidlais ddemocrataidd yn digwydd bob mis Mawrth ac mae'r Swyddogion Llawn Amser yn cychwyn eu rolau yn yr Haf yn barod i fynd i'r afael â'r flwyddyn academaidd newydd ym mis Medi.
Mae'n syml.
Os cewch eich ethol ac nad ydych eto wedi cwblhau eich gradd, gallwch gymryd blwyddyn o'ch astudiaethau i wneud y gwaith.
Os cewch eich ethol a'ch bod yn eich blwyddyn olaf o astudio ar y pryd, gallwch aros yn Abertawe am flwyddyn arall i wneud y gwaith!
Y tîm Swyddogion Llawn Amser yw'r llais i fyfyrwyr sy'n mynd â'ch adborth yn ôl i'r Brifysgol a sicrhau bod rhywbeth yn cael ei wneud yn ei gylch.
Cadwch lygad ar Facebook Undeb y Myfyrwyr am wybodaeth am yr etholiadau sydd ar ddod a sut y gallwch chi gymryd rhan.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/pythefnos-y-glas:
Mae Gŵyl y Glas yn gyfle i wneud ffrindiau, archwilio'ch dinas newydd a setlo mewn i fywyd prifysgol.
Pan fyddwch yn cyrraedd Abertawe am y tro cyntaf, mae'n bosibl na fyddwch yn adnabod neb.
Peidiwch â phoeni – rydych yn mynd i gwrdd â llwyth o bobl newydd.
Cewch gyfle i gofrestru ar gyfer clwb chwaraeon neu gymdeithas – dyma'r ffordd orau o gwrdd â phobl o'r un meddylfryd â chi.
Ein cyngor ni fyddai i chi ymuno â chynifer o glybiau ag y gallwch i ddechrau!
Os ydych yn byw mewn neuadd breswyl, dewch i adnabod eich cyd-letywyr.
Cofiwch y byddwch yn cwrdd â hyd yn oed yn fwy o bobl gyda'r un diddordebau â chi pan fyddwch yn dechrau eich cwrs.
Paratowch at ddechrau'r tymor drwy ddarllen ein canllaw defnyddiol ar MyUni

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/adran-gwasanaethau-cymorth-i-fyfyrwyr:
I lawer o bobl, mae'r brifysgol yn lle i wneud ffrindiau am fywyd, i ennill cyfoeth o brofiad, i gael addysg wych ac i ddatblygu sgiliau ar gyfer cyflogaeth.
Gallai fod yn frawychus i ddechrau ond mae llawer o gymorth a chefnogaeth ar gael i chi.
Y peth pwysicaf yw gofyn am wybodaeth, cyngor neu gefnogaeth pryd bynnag y mae eu hangen arnoch.
Mae angen cymorth ar bawb o bryd i'w gilydd ac mae tîm o arbenigwyr ar gael gennym i'ch helpu chi weithio drwy unrhyw anawsterau.
Rydyn ni'n anelu at ddarparu gwasanaethau integredig, proffesiynol, sy'n canolbwyntio ar fyfyrwyr ac sy'n cynnig gwybodaeth, cyngor, arweiniad a chefnogaeth i alluogi pob myfyriwr i ddatblygu a chyflawni ei botensial/photensial llawn.
Gwasanaethu pob myfyriwr drwy gynnig rhagoriaeth yn y cymorth a'r hyffordiant a ddarparwn.
Byddwn ni’n ymdrechu i sicrhau bod pob myfyriwr yn cael y cyfle i wireddu ei lawn botensial a byddwn yn cyfrannu at bob agwedd ar fywyd, o’r cyfnod cyn gwneud cais i’r cyfnod ar ôl graddio, yn unol â chenhadaeth y Brifysgol.
Byddwn ni’n cyflawni ein cenhadaeth drwy feithrin profiad myfyrwyr sy’n broffesiynol, yn gydweithredol, yn ofalgar ac yn unigryw.
Bydd aelodau staff Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn ymdrechu i gynnig gwasanaethau safonol a chydweithredol sy’n canolbwyntio ar y myfyriwr ac wedi eu hintegreiddio â’r gymuned ehangach.
Cyflawnir hyn drwy ein hymrwymiad i gydraddoldeb, amrywiaeth a chynaliadwyedd a drwy fod yn ymatebol i newid, gan fuddsoddi yn sgiliau a gwybodaeth ein staff a’u defnyddio.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/llyfrgelloedd:
Mae Llyfrgelloedd Prifysgol Abertawe yn darparu gwasanaethau gwybodaeth o ansawdd uchel i staff a myfyrwyr, yn ogystal ag i'r cyhoedd, ac rydym yn datblygu'r gwasanaethau hyn yn gyson i gefnogi gweithgareddau dysgu, addysgu, ymchwil a chorfforaethol y Brifysgol.
Mae'r Gwasanaethau Llyfrgelloedd a Chasgliadau yn cynnig amgylchedd cyfforddus, eang i astudio ac ymchwilio ynddo, ac mae ein staff cyfeillgar a phroffesiynol yn darparu ystod gynyddol o gymorth, hyfforddiant a gwasanaethau pwnc i sicrhau bod holl ddefnyddwyr y Llyfrgell yn gwneud y defnydd gorau o'r adnoddau sydd ar gael.
I gadw lle yn y llyfrgell, boed hynny ar gyfer astudio mewn grŵp, astudio'n unigol neu i archebu cyfrifiadur, edrychwch ar ein hargaeledd a chadw lle yma.
Mae popeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod am fenthyca adnoddau yma.
P'un a ydych chi eisiau llyfrau, cyfnodolion, ffilmiau neu hyd yn oed gliniadur dros dro tra byddwch chi'n astudio yn y llyfrgell.
Dyma wybodaeth am fenthyca ac adnewyddu ar gyfer ymwelwyr nad ydynt yn fyfyrwyr.
Dyma wybodaeth am ein gwahanol wefannau yn ogystal â’n polisïau a’n gweithdrefnau.
Mae ein blog yn cynnwys awgrymiadau llyfrgell defnyddiol.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/bywydcampws:
Rydym yn deall bod angen i ni eich cefnogi mewn amrywiaeth o ffyrdd er mwyn i chi allu mwynhau eich amser yn y Brifysgol i'r eithaf.
Rydym yn cynnig gwasanaethau cyngor a chymorth diduedd am ddim i fyfyrwyr, heb feirniadu, mewn amgylchedd cartrefol, cyfeillgar a chyfrinachol.
Dewch i'n gweld i gael cymorth arbenigol gan ein wasanaethau Ffydd, Cymunedol, Rhyngwladol, Ariannol, Cyfranogiad a Llesiant.
Myfyrwyr sydd wedi'u hysbrydoli a'u cefnogi i ymrwymo'n llawn i brofiad trawsnewidiol yn y Brifysgol, profiad sy'n llunio eu dealltwriaeth gynyddol o'u hunain, eu cymuned a'u cyfraniadau at gymdeithas fyd-eang.
Ein cenhadaeth yw addysgu myfyrwyr, cysylltu â'r gymuned a chyfoethogi'r profiad ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Rydym yn gwneud hyn drwy ddarparu cyfres o wasanaethau cyngor, arweiniad a chymorth sy'n cynorthwyo myfyrwyr ac yn eu galluogi i gyflawni eu potensial addysgol llawn; drwy cael gwared ar rwystrau i ddysgu, cryfhau parodrwydd i ddysgu a chynnal cymuned iach a diogel ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Mae BywydCampws yn gweithredu ar sail set ddiffiniedig o Werthoedd Craidd a disgwylir i'n staff allu arddangos ymrwymiad i'r gwerthoedd hyn o adeg gwneud cais am swydd ac wrth gyflawni dyletswyddau beunyddiol eu rolau.
Ein Gwerthoedd:
Rydym yn Broffesiynol
Rydym yn ymfalchïo mewn defnyddio ein gwybodaeth, ein sgiliau, ein creadigrwydd, ein gonestrwydd a'n doethineb i ddarparu gwasanaethau arloesol, effeithiol ac effeithlon ynghyd ag atebion o safon ardderchog.
Rydym yn Cydweithio
Rydym yn ymfalchïo mewn amgylchedd gweithio rhagweithiol a chydweithredol o gydraddoldeb, ymddiriedaeth, parch, cydweithio a her, i ddarparu gwasanaethau sy'n ceisio rhagori ar anghenion a disgwyliadau cwsmeriaid.
Rydym yn Ofalgar
Rydym yn derbyn cyfrifoldeb am wrando ar ein myfyrwyr, ein cydweithwyr, partneriaid allanol a'r cyhoedd, eu deall ac ymateb yn hyblyg iddynt, fel bod pob cysylltiad rhyngddynt a ni yn brofiad personol a chadarnhaol.
Datganiad Preifatrwydd BywydCampws

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cyflogadwyedd:
Yma yn Abertawe, rydym yn gwneud pethau’n wahanol gan sicrhau o’r eiliad y bydd dy daith yn dechrau gyda ni, y bydd gennyt yr holl gyngor ar yrfaoedd a chyfleoedd cyflogaeth mewn un man.
Rydym yn sicrhau bod eich dysgu a'ch datblygiad gyrfa'n datblygu ar yr un pryd.
Cewch gyfle i ymgysylltu â byd diwydiant, ymgymryd â phrofiad gwaith, mynd i ffeiriau gyrfaoedd a llawer mwy er mwyn sicrhau eich bod yn barod am y byd gwaith pan fyddwch yn ein gadael ni.
I gysylltu â thîm Gyrfaoedd a chyflogadwyedd ynghylch ymholiadau cyffredinol, e-bostiwch careers@abertawe.ac.uk .
I gael manylion cyswllt ein tîm llawn, ewch i'n tudalen cyswllt Gyrfaoedd a chyflogadwyedd .
Rydym wedi'i hachredu gan Gymdeithas Gwasanaethau Cynghori ar Yrfaoedd (AGCAS) , corff proffesiynol y DU ar gyfer ymarferwyr gyrfaoedd a chyflogadwyedd proffesiynol sy’n gweithio gyda myfyrwyr a graddedigion addysg uwch.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/llwyddiant-academaidd:
Mae'r Ganolfan ar gyfer llwyddiant academaidd yma i'ch cefnogi wrth ddatblygu eich sgiliau astudio academaidd a chyflawni eich nodau.
Ydych chi ' n mynd i brifysgol am y tro cyntaf neu ' n cymryd y cam nesaf ar eich taith academaidd?
Gallwn eich helpu i bontio ' r bwlch rhwng ble rydych chi a ble mae angen i chi fod.
Gallwch gynyddu eich potensial i'r eithaf a datblygu eich hyder trwy ystod o gyrsiau, gweithdai a thiwtorialau un-ar-un.
Mae pob un o'n staff yn gymwys iawn a chanddynt flynyddoedd o brofiad gan roi cyngor a chymorth cyfeillgar a phroffesiynol.
Mae ein derbynfa ar agor o Ddydd Llun - Ddydd Gwener (10am-4pm)
Ganolfan ar gyfer Llwyddiant Academaidd derbyniad Bloc y Stablau Prifysgol Abertawe Parc Singleton Abertawe Cymru SA2 8PP
ebost: academicsuccess@abertawe.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/academi-hywel-teifi:
Mae Academi Hywel Teifi yn sefydliad arbennig iawn a sefydlwyd gan Brifysgol Abertawe yn 2010 er cof am gyn-Athro Cymraeg y brifysgol ac un o fawrion y genedl, Yr Athro Hywel Teifi Edwards.
Mae'r Academi yn sefydliad unigryw ac y gorff sydd yn fwy na swm ei rhannau sef tair uned benodol:
Yn ogystal â grymuso statws a defnydd y Gymraeg, gweledigaeth yr Academi yw cefnogi myfyrwyr o bob oedran a chefndiroedd addysgiadol, diwylliannol a sosio-economaidd i ddysgu’r Gymraeg neu ddatblygu eu sgiliau yn yr iaith.
Mae’n gweithio hefyd i hybu cyfleoedd a buddiannau astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, ynghyd â chyflwyno a dathlu ei diwylliant.
Mae darparu addysg yn yr iaith Gymraeg yn greiddiol i waith a strategaeth Prifysgol Abertawe oherwydd rôl arweiniol y sefydliad yn y Gymru gyfoes, ei chyfrifoldeb yn rhanbarthol a chenedlaethol, a’i chyfrifoldeb statudol.
Dysgwch fwy amdanom ni
Mae gwaith yr Academi wedi'i rannu'n dair thema - Dysgu , Datblygu a Dathlu .
Cliciwch ar yr opsiynau isod i ddysgu mwy.
Darganfyddwch fwy am gyrsiau Israddedig ac Ôl-raddedig sydd â darpariaeth Gymraeg, Cangen Prifysgol Abertawe o'r Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Cenedlaethol a'r cyfleoedd sydd ar gael i fyfyrwyr sy'n siarad Cymraeg.
Darganfyddwch fwy am ystod o weithgareddau diwylliannol a chelfyddydol Academi Hywel Teifi, yn ogystal â chyrsiau dysgu gydol oes yn y gymuned a chyfres reolaidd o ddarlithoedd a seminarau cyhoeddus.
Hefyd dysgwch am ein prosiectau arloesol er budd y Gymraeg.
Mae Academi Hywel Teifi yn cyflwyno amrywiaeth o weithgareddau a digwyddiadau diwylliannol i gyfoethogi diwylliant Cymru a'r iaith Gymraeg gan drefnu presenoldeb cyfrwng Cymraeg y Brifysgol mewn digwyddiadau cenedlaethol .
Mwy o newyddion
Academi Hywel Teifi Adeilad Talbot Prifysgol Abertawe Abertawe SA2 8PP
Ffôn: +44 (0)1792 602070 Ebost: academihywelteifi@abertawe.ac.uk
Staff Academi Hywel Teifi
Newyddion, digwyddiadau ac ymchwil
Cyhoeddiadau Arwain

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-cymorth-i-fyfyrwyr:
Rydym yn cynnig cyngor, arweiniad ac opsiynau cymorth i fyfyrwyr sy'n wynebu heriau yn ystod eu hamser yn y brifysgol.
Mae ein gwasanaethau ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n profi anawsterau emosiynol a phersonol yn ogystal â materion mwy cymhleth gan gynnwys nam ar y synhwyrau neu gorfforol, cyflyrau meddygol hir dymor, anawsterau dysgu penodol, cyflyrau ar y sbectrwm awtistig a chyflyrau iechyd meddwl; i sicrhau bod holl fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Abertawe'n cael cyfleoedd dysgu cyfartal.
Costau cymorth
Rhagor o wybodaeth
Cysylltwch â ni

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/rhyngwladol:
Mae gan Brifysgol Abertawe gyrhaeddiad rhyngwladol gyda staff, myfyrwyr, partneriaethau a chysylltiadau ymchwil sy'n ymestyn ar draws y byd.
Mae ein campysau yn fywiog ac amrywiol gyda staff a myfyrwyr o dros 130 o wledydd gan greu cymuned gyfeillgar.
Sut i ddod o hyd i ni
Cysylltwch â ni - Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/gwnewch-ymchwil-gyda-ni:
Mae ein cymuned amrywiol a chroesawgar yn ffynnu ar archwilio a darganfod, a cheir cydbwysedd o addysgu rhagorol ac ymchwil, ynghyd ag ansawdd bywyd gwych.
Oherwydd ein hymrwymiad i ymchwil sy'n cynnig manteision ymarferol i'r byd, rydym wedi cyflawni ein huchelgais o fod yn un o'r 30 o Brifysgolion Gorau am Ymchwil, gan saethu i fyny tabl Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2014 o brifysgolion y DU, i'r 26ain safle o’r 52ain safle yn 2008.
Sefydlwyd Prifysgol Abertawe ar sail egwyddorion arloesi a chydweithio.
Drwy weithio gyda ni, gall eich sefydliad elwa o arbenigedd ymchwil a datblygu sy'n arwain y ffordd yn fyd-eang, graddedigion a myfyrwyr dawnus, hyfforddiant a datblygiad sgiliau proffesiynol, cyfleusterau a chyfarpar o'r radd flaenaf a nifer o gyfleoedd masnachol eraill.
Ein Hamgylchedd Ymchwil

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/gwnewch-ymchwil-gyda-ni/ymchwilolraddedig:
Mae Abertawe'n gartref i gymuned ymchwil ffyniannus sy'n cyfuno ymchwil sy'n arwain y ffordd yn fyd-eang ag ethos croesawgar, cynhwysol a chydweithredol, a ffocws ar ymchwil sy'n fuddiol yn y byd go iawn.
Mae ein swyddfa ymchwil ôl-raddedig yn cydlynu gweithgareddau rhyngddisgyblaethol a chymorth i ymchwilwyr ôl-raddedig ledled y Brifysgol.
Rydym yn gweithio i sicrhau eich bod yn cael y profiad gorau posibl fel myfyrwyr, drwy roi mynediad at gyfleoedd ariannu a datblygu, darparu hyfforddiant ac adnoddau i'ch cefnogi i feithrin eich sgiliau proffesiynol ac ymchwil, a chefnogi digwyddiadau a gweithgareddau dan arweiniad myfyrwyr.
Darganfyddwch fanteision astudio am radd ymchwil a dod o hyd i'r rhaglen gywir i chi.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/ymchwil/gwneud-cais:
Gellir cyflwyno cais am y rhan fwyaf o'n rhaglenni ymchwil ôl-raddedig ar-lein drwy ein Porth Ceisiadau 'Porth Dysgwyr' .
Sylwer bod proses wahanol ar gyfer cyflwyno cais am ein cyrsiau ysgoloriaeth a ariennir yn llawn gan Brifysgol Abertawe:
https://www.swansea.ac.uk/cy/ol-raddedig/ysgoloriaethau/ysgoloriaethau-ymchwil-/
Cysylltwch â'r Swyddfa Derbyn drwy e-bost os oes gennych broblemau wrth ddefnyddio system cyflwyno cais ar-lein y Porth Ceisiadau 'Porth Dysgwyr'.
SYLWER: Ymgeiswyr ar gyfer PhD/EngD/ProfD/EdD - i gefnogi ein hymrwymiad i ddarparu amgylchedd sy'n rhydd o wahaniaethu a dathlu amrywiaeth ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe mae'n ofynnol i chi lenwi Ffurflen Monitro Cydraddoldeb, Amrywiaeth a Chynhwysiant yn ogystal â ffurflen gais eich rhaglen.
Cliciwch ar y ddolen ganlynol i lenwi eich Ffurflen Monitro Cydraddoldeb, Amrywiaeth a Chynhwysiant:
• Ffurflen Monitro Cydraddoldeb, Amrywiaeth a Chynhwysiant (ffurflen ar-lein) Sylwer bod cwblhau'r Ffurflen Monitro Cydraddoldeb, Amrywiaeth a Chynhwysiant yn orfodol; efallai na fydd eich cais yn cael ei ystyried/brosesu os nad yw'r wybodaeth hon wedi'i chyflwyno.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/gwnewch-ymchwil-gyda-ni/ymchwilolraddedig/hyfforddiant:
Rydym yn cynnig rhaglen datblygu ymchwilwyr gynhwysfawr ar gyfer ymchwilwyr ôl-raddedig, gan eu cefnogi i ddatblygu'r sgiliau, yr wybodaeth a'r nodweddion i ragori yn eu hymchwil a'u gyrfaoedd yn y dyfodol, boed yn academia neu'r tu hwnt.
Ein hymagwedd ni at ddatblygu ymchwil ôl-raddedig
Nid yw datblygu a hyfforddi yn dechrau ac yn dod i ben ar ôl cwblhau gweithdy na darllen adnodd penodol.
Rydym ni'n annog ein myfyrwyr ymchwil i ystyried eu gradd gyfan fel rhaglen barhaus a chyfannol o ddatblygu lle byddant yn dysgu sut i fod yn ymchwilwyr yn eu meysydd dewisol, gan ddatblygu'r sgiliau mae eu hangen i gwblhau eu prosiect ymchwil ac ysgrifennu eu traethawd doethurol, yn ogystal â datblygu amrywiaeth o nodweddion proffesiynol a phersonol trosglwyddadwy a fydd yn cael eu defnyddio yn yr hyn maent yn dewis ei wneud nesaf.
Mae gwneud hyn yn golygu manteisio ar yr holl gyfleoedd sydd ar gael, boed yn weithdai a digwyddiadau ffurfiol neu adfyfyrio anffurfiol a dysgu sy'n deillio o sgwrsio yn y labordy neu dros goffi, a phopeth rhwng y ddau begwn hyn.
Gweld ac archebu gweithdai ar-lein i ddatblygu'r wybodaeth, y sgiliau a'r priodweddau y mae eu hangen arnoch i ragori yn eich gradd ymchwil a'ch gyrfa yn y dyfodol.
Gallwch weld y cyrsiau fesul thema a dysgu sut gall y Fframwaith eich helpu yn ystod eich gradd ymchwil.
Mae'r Swyddfa Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig yn darparu hyfforddiant i staff sy'n goruchwylio myfyrwyr ymchwil.
Bydd pob goruchwyliwr newydd, neu oruchwylwyr sy'n newydd i Brifysgol Abertawe, yn cwblhau'r cwrs "Goruchwylio Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe".
Yn y cwrs hwn, byddwch yn cael y cyfle i gwrdd â goruchwylwyr eraill a thrafod astudiaethau achos a phrosesau ymchwil ôl-raddedig gyda nhw, derbyn trosolwg o reoliadau a gweithdrefnau hanfodol, a dysgu â phwy i gysylltu ar draws y sefydliad am gymorth gydag agweddau gwahanol ar oruchwylio.
Mewngofnowch i ABW i gael rhagor o wybodaeth ac i gadw eich lle.
Mae PAWS (Cymorth Ysgrifennu Academaidd Cymheiriaid) yn cynnig amser a lle i fyfyrwyr PhD a staff ar Gampws Singleton ar gyfer amser a chymorth ysgrifennu pwrpasol gan eu cymheiriaid i wella eu sgiliau ysgrifennu/annog allbwn ysgrifennu.
Rydym yn cwrdd yn Nhŵr Vivian, ystafell 813, ddwywaith yr wythnos (Dydd Llun a Dydd Gwener) o 10am i 12pm i ganolbwyntio ar ysgrifennu.
Gall hyn amrywio o erthyglau, cynigion grant i benodau, ond mae hefyd yn cynnwys darllen, adolygu a golygu, ynghyd ag amlinellu darn o ysgrifennu.
Gallwch weithio ar eich gliniadur, ar ddarn o bapur neu ar waith a argraffwyd, gan ddibynnu ar y dasg a'ch ffordd chi o weithio.
Mae croeso i chi ymuno â ni pan fydd yn gyfleus i chi, a does dim rhaid i chi ddod am ddwy awr os mai ond un awr sydd genych yn rhydd.
Ceir rhagor o wybodaeth ar ein gwefan
Dilynwch ni ar Twitter hefyd (@SwanseaPaws) a thanysgrifio i'n rhestr e-bostio i gael y diweddaraf a negeseuon atgoffa am ddigwyddiadau .
Os oes gennych gwestiynau, gallwch e-bostio Jen Gatzemeier
Edrychwn ymlaen at gwrdd â chi a'ch croesawu i'n grŵp.
E-bostiwch y Tîm Datblygu Sgiliau Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig
Ffoniwch y Tîm Datblygu Sgiliau Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/archwiliwch-ein-hymchwil:
Wrth nodi, datblygu a chyfuno meysydd ymchwil sy’n dod i’r amlwg, rydym yn torri tir newydd ac yn creu lle i syniadau dyfu, gan ddiffinio a chyflymu meysydd ymchwil sy’n newid bywydau.
Mae ein hymchwilwyr deinamig, cefnogol ac uchelgeisiol yn gweithio ar y cyd ar draws pynciau, diwydiannau a meysydd gwahanol yn y byd academaidd i fod yn gatalydd ar gyfer newid a gweithio tuag at fynd i’r afael â  ar gyfer byd gwell.
Croeso i’n cyfres o bodlediadau ‘ Archwilio Problemau Byd-eang ’, lle bydd ein hacademyddion yn trafod sut mae eu hymchwil arloesol yn helpu i ymdrin ag amrywiaeth o heriau rhyngwladol.
Mae'r pynciau’n cynnwys arloesedd ym maes iechyd, newid yn yr hinsawdd.
Mae sawl ffordd y gallwch chi wrando ar, neu hyd yn oed wylio, ein cyfres podlediadau gan ddefnyddio'ch cyflenwr podlediadau dewisol.
Cronfa yw storfa'r Brifysgol.
Mae'n cynnwys erthyglau cyfnodolion, llyfrau, penodau llyfrau, traethodau ymchwil, papurau cynhadledd a gweithdai, data, adroddiadau, papurau gwaith a mwy.
Dysgwch fwy am yr ymchwil sy'n cael ei wneud ym mhob un o'r cyfadrannau sy'n ymwneud ag Arloesi mewn Iechyd

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ein-huchafbwyntiau:
Rydym ni’n cydnabod yr heriau mae unigolion a chymdeithasau yn eu hwynebu wrth weithio a byw mewn byd sydd o hyd yn newid.
Mae ein hymchwil ryngddisgyblaethol, a arweinir gan academyddion arloesol sy’n defnyddio cyfleusterau sydd ar flaen y gad, yn helpu pobl i addasu i newid a gwella eu bywydau.
Mae ein hymchwilwyr deinamig, cefnogol ac uchelgeisiol yn gweithio ar y cyd ar draws pynciau, diwydiannau a meysydd gwahanol yn y byd academaidd i fod yn gatalydd ar gyfer newid a gweithio tuag at fynd i’r afael â Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy’r Cenhedloedd Unedig ar gyfer byd gwell.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i  yn y rhanbarth, y DU ac yn fyd-eang ac rydym yn y deg uchaf yng Nghynghrair Prifysgol ' People and Planet '.
Mae ein hymchwil ym maes iechyd yn galluogi arloesi dyfeisiau, gwasanaethau a diagnosisau i hyrwyddo iechyd a lles da mewn cymunedau ac unigolion yn fyd-eang.
Mae ein canolfannau ymchwil o'r radd flaenaf fel y Ganolfan Nano-iechyd ac adnoddau gan gynnwys cronfa ddata SAIL yn hyrwyddo cydweithredu rhwng llywodraethau, diwydiant a'r byd academaidd i fynd i'r afael ac atal afiechydon, gwrthdroi stigma, a lleihau pwysau.
Rydym yn cydnabod yr heriau byd-eang yr ydym i gyd yn eu hwynebu.
Mae ein hymchwil yn dod o hyd i ffyrdd o warchod ac amddiffyn y byd ar gyfer cenedlaethau'r dyfodol.
O redeg prosiect adfer morwellt mwya'r DU, i hedfan yn uchel gyda chondorau yn yr Ariannin gyda SLAM (Lab Abertawe ar gyfer Symud Anifeiliaid), a chreu adeiladau sy'n harneisio ac yn storio ei egni ei hun.
Rydym yn gweithio i frwydro yn erbyn effeithiau'r argyfwng hinsawdd ar gyfer y dyfodol.
Rydyn ni'n gweithio gyda chymunedau lleol a byd-eang i warchod hanes, dylanwadu ar bolisi ac annog diwylliannau agored a meithrin.
Mae ein canolfannau ymchwil fel Canolfan y Celfyddydau a'r Dyniaethau Digidol a'r Ganolfan Ymchwil Iaith yn ein galluogi i ddeall y gorffennol i ddylanwadu ar y dyfodol.
Maent yn ein galluogi i gyflawni ein huchelgais i greu byd cyfartal, diogel a chynaliadwy trwy ddeall a chydweithio.
Rydym yn deall gwerth amrywiaeth ar draws gweithluoedd, cymunedau a bywyd.
Ein cred yw y dylid cael cydraddoldeb a chyfiawnder i bawb.
Trwy ein canolfannau ymchwil rydym wedi gallu dylanwadu ar bolisïau, wynebu heriau cyfoes, a gwneud gwahaniaeth i gymdeithasau ar draws y byd go iawn a digidol.
Mae ein hymchwil yn gosod pobl wrth wraidd gwelliannau technolegol.
Rydyn ni’n creu amgylcheddau digidol mwy diogel sy’n integreiddio ac yn gwella ffyrdd o fyw bodau dynol.
Gan weithio’n rhyngwladol ac yn rhai o’n canolfannau ymchwil arloesol megis Canolfan Ymchwil i Farchnadoedd Newydd (EMaRC), Canolfan Nanoiechyd, a CHERISH-DE, mae ein hacademyddion yn gosod bodau dynol wrth wraidd ein hymchwil, ein hallbynnau, a’n hargymhellion ar gyfer dyfodol mwy cynhwysol a mwy diogel.
Gan weithio gyda phartneriaid ac arbenigwyr yn eu maes, gall ein hymchwilwyr symleiddio a gwella cynhyrchiant i leihau gwastraff a lleihau gwariant o fewn gweithgynhyrchu.
Yn gartref i Ganolfan Peirianneg Gyfrifiadurol Zienkiewicz a chyfleusterau o'r radd flaenaf fel labordy Peirianneg Arfordirol, ffliw tonnau 30m, a thwnnel gwynt, rydym wedi buddsoddi miliynau o bunnoedd i gynnal ymchwil ystyrlon i aerodynameg arbrofol, dynameg hylif cyfrifiadol, a mwy.
Mae ein hymchwil i ddur wedi arwain at ddatblygu dur ysgafnach, gwyrddach, doethach a phroses gynhyrchu lanach, gan helpu i frwydro yn erbyn newid yn yr hinsawdd.
Mae ein campws gwerth miliynau o bunnoedd, sy'n gartref i brosiectau fel SPECIFIC, ac yn agos at bartneriaid y diwydiant Tata Steel, wedi ein galluogi i weithio ar draws disgyblaethau i greu a datblygu atebion posibl i'r argyfwng hinsawdd.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/archwiliwch-ein-hymchwil/ymchwil-yn-y-cyfadrannau:
Darganfyddwch am y gwaith ymchwil sy'n digwydd ym mhob un o'r cyfadrannau:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/podlediadau:
Croeso i’n cyfres o bodlediadau ‘Archwilio Problemau Byd-eang’, lle bydd ein hacademyddion yn trafod sut mae eu hymchwil arloesol yn helpu i ymdrin ag amrywiaeth o heriau rhyngwladol.
Mae pynciau’n cynnwys arloesedd ym maes iechyd, newid yn yr hinsawdd, ynni glân a thechnolegau digidol sy’n canolbwyntio ar bobl.
Cliciwch ar y botymau isod i archwilio bob tymor ac yna gwrandewch a thanysgrifiwch i'r gyfres gan ddefnyddio'ch darparwr podlediadau dewisol.
Ewch i'n tudalen cymorth podlediad i ddysgu rhagor am sut i wrando.
Rhai pynciau sy’n procio’r meddwl (amrediad amrywiol hyd yn oed ar draws y ddwy bennod rydw i wedi gwrando arnyn nhw hyd yn hyn) gan ystod o siaradwyr sy’n dda i’w gweld, rwy’n gobeithio y bydd hyn yn parhau.
Dechrau cyfres hir a llwyddiannus gan Brifysgol Abertawe gobeithio!
A allwn ymddiried mewn gwleidyddion?
Sut rydym yn sicrhau diogelwch bwyd byd-eang?
Pwy sy'n gymwys i gystadlu mewn chwaraeon elît?
Dyma'r cwestiynau sy'n cael eu hateb gan academyddion o Brifysgol Abertawe yng nghyfres nesaf y podlediad ymchwil Archwilio Problemau Byd-eang.
Penodau newydd yn cael eu rhyddhau bob pythefnos
6 May 2024 Tymor 3, Pennod 1
Yn y bennod hon, mae Dr Luca Trenta yn trafod defnydd gwladwriaethau o weithredu cudd, gyda ffocws ar ymwneud Llywodraeth yr UD â llofruddiaethau a noddir gan y wladwriaeth.
Gan rychwantu'r cyfnod o'r Rhyfel Oer hyd heddiw, mae Dr Trenta yn archwilio dimensiynau cywrain y gweithrediadau cudd hyn.
20 Mai 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 2
3 Mehefin 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 3
Mae Joanne Davies yn trafod sut mae addysgwyr hyfforddedig iawn a thechnolegau efelychu, modelau technoleg uchel a'r cyfleuster mwyaf o ran technoleg waliau ymdrochol yn y byd yn hyrwyddo addysg gofal iechyd.
17 Mehefin 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 4
Mae Dr Gabriela Jiga-Boy yn trafod cysyniad ymddiriedaeth.
O ganlyniad i'r perygl sy'n deillio o dwyllwybodaeth yn ystod argyfyngau cymdeithasol (megis y pandemig neu newid yn yr hinsawdd), mae'n ymddangos bod ymddiriedaeth mewn ffeithiau a gwyddoniaeth yn bwysicach nawr nag erioed.
A yw'r cyhoedd yn ymddiried mewn gwleidyddion ac arbenigwyr gwyddonol?
Ar y llaw arall, i ba raddau y mae aelodau'r cyhoedd yn teimlo bod y rhai hynny sydd mewn grym yn ymddiried ynddynt hwythau?
1 Gorffennaf 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 5
Mae Dr Farooq Shah yn trafod yr effaith niweidiol y mae plâu pryfed yn ei chael ar ddiogelwch bwyd a'r angen dybryd i ddatblygu ddewisiadau amgen i blaladdwyr cemegol, sy'n peri perygl i iechyd pobl ac anifeiliaid yn ogystal â'r amgylchedd.
15 Gorffennaf 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 6
Mae Dr Ashra Khanom yn trafod ei hymchwil sy'n ceisio mynd i'r afael ag anghenion pobl sy'n ceisio noddfa yn y DU, gan gynnwys sut maen nhw'n cael mynediad at wasanaethau gofal iechyd.
29 Gorffennaf 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 7
Yn y bennod hon, mae Dr Shane Heffernan yn trafod materion cymhleth o ran meini prawf cymhwysedd ar gyfer athletwyr trawsryweddol a DSD/rhyngryw a'i waith ymchwil ar ddulliau maethroddol amgen i reoli osteoarthritis ac effaith deietau planhigion ar iechyd a pherfformiad.
12 Awst 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 8
Mae Dr Gulzat Botoeva yn mynd â gwrandawyr ar daith i dirwedd economaidd-gymdeithasol gymhleth cloddio am aur ar raddfa fach yn rhanbarth Naryn yn Kyrgyzstan.
Mae Dr Botoeva yn trafod cyfraniad cymunedau lleol mewn protestiadau yn erbyn ac o blaid cwmnïau mwyngloddio swyddogol.
23 Medi 2024 Tymor 4, Pennod 9
Mae Dr Rhian Meara , Uwch-ddarlithydd Daearyddiaeth, yn trafod echdoriad llosgfynydd Eldfell ym 1973 ar Ynys Heimaey, Gwlad yr Iâ.
Mae'r echdoriad ei hun yn enwog oherwydd achubwyd y dref fach drwy chwistrellu dŵr oer y môr ar y lafâu wrth iddynt nesáu.
Dewch i gwrdd â chyflwynydd y gyfres 'Exploring Global Problems', Sam Blaxland.
Mae Sam yn Gymrawd Anrhydeddus Prifysgol Abertawe, ar ôl bod yn fyfyriwr PhD, yn Gymrawd Ôl-ddoethurol, yn Diwtor ac yn Ddarlithydd Hanes Fodern rhwng 2013 a 2022.
Mae bellach yn gweithio i UCL.
Tra bu yn Abertawe, ysgrifennodd lyfr ar hanes y Brifysgol i nodi ei chanmlwyddiant yn 2020.
Bu hefyd yn addysgu ar amrywiaeth o gyrsiau israddedig ac ôl-raddedig.
Ganwyd a magwyd Sam yn Sir Benfro.
Mae'n gyfrannwr rheolaidd i gyfryngau darlledu Prydain a Chymru ac yn ddiweddar mae wedi ymddangos ar sianel Newyddion y BBC a rhaglen Breakfast BBC1, ymysg eraill, i drafod hanes gwleidyddiaeth fodern a materion cyfoes.
Y tu allan i'r gwaith, mae'n rhedwr brwd (o redeg mewn Parkruns ar fore dydd Sadwrn i farathonau), ac mae'n dwlu ar bapurau newyddion copi caled, hen ffasiwn.
Mae hefyd yn mwynhau coginio, dysgu am win (a'i yfed).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/darganfyddwch-ein-hymchwil:
Fel sefydliad blaenllaw a arweinir gan ymchwil, gallwn eich helpu i ddatrys problemau a datblygu a phrofi cynnyrch a gwasanaethau newydd i roi mantais gystadleuol i chi.
Mae ein prif gryfderau ymchwil yn cynnwys arloesi ym maes gweithgynhyrchu, deunyddiau, adeiladau carbon isel, modelu a dylunio, dyfeisiau meddygol a nanodechnoleg, meddalwedd a TGCh
Os oes gennych chi drwyn am stori, yna gall Swyddfa’r Wasg Prifysgol Abertawe gael cyswllt i chi gyda’n hacademyddion, ymchwil arloesol, a straeon eraill o bob cwr o’r Brifysgol.
Ffoniwch: +44 (0) 1792 295050
Ebostiwch Swyddfa'r Wasg
Gwasanaeth y tu hwnt i oriau swyddfa
+44 (0)7894 251 874

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil-arloesi:
Mae ein prif gryfderau ymchwil yn cynnwys arloesi ym maes gweithgynhyrchu, deunyddiau, adeiladau carbon isel, modelu a dylunio, dyfeisiau meddygol a nanodechnoleg, meddalwedd a TGCh.
Ewch i'n tudalennau gwe ymchwil i gael gwybodaeth am ein hymchwil sy'n arwain y ffordd yn fyd-eang .
Ymuno â’n rhwydwaith cydweithredol
Cofrestru ar gyfer ein eGylchlythyr
Cysylltwch â’n tîm ymgysylltu â busnesau

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ein-hamgylchedd-ymchwil-:
Cafodd cryfder ein hamgylchedd ymchwil ei asesu yn Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2021 (REF), pan gawsom ein rhoi yn y 26ain safle am ansawdd ein hymchwil.
Mae 91% o’n hamgylchedd ymchwil yn cael ei ystyried o safon sy’n arwain y byd ac yn rhagorol yn rhyngwladol (a chynnydd o 6 pwynt % ers REF 2014).
Mae hyn yn atgyfnerthu'r ffaith bod Prifysgol Abertawe yn amgylchedd rhagorol i fyfyrwyr neu academyddion gynnal ymchwil, a honno'n ymchwil sy'n gwneud gwahaniaeth gwirioneddol yn y byd.
Yn achos 10 Uned Asesu, ystyriwyd bod 100% o'r amgylchedd yn arwain y byd neu'n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol , gan gynnwys Busnes a Rheolaeth, Ieithoedd Modern, a Gwaith Cymdeithasol a Pholisi Cymdeithasol.
Darganfod mwy am ein canlyniadau REF 2021 .
Yn Abertawe, rydym yn cydnabod nad yw heriau mawr heddiw yn parchu'r ffiniau artiffisial rhwng disgyblaethau traddodiadol.
Mae ein hamgylchedd ymchwil yn adlewyrchu hyn, gan gyfuno arloesi a chyfleusterau rhagorol i ddarparu cartref lle gall ymchwil rhyngddisgyblaethol ffynnu.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/uniondeb-ymchwil-moeseg-a-llywodraethu:
Croeso i dudalennau Uniondeb Ymchwil Prifysgol Abertawe.
Rydym yn falch iawn o'n henw da am ymchwil ragorol, ac o ansawdd, ymroddiad a phroffesiynoliaeth ein cymuned ymchwil.
Deallwn fod rhaid i uniondeb fod yn nodwedd hanfodol o bob agwedd ar ymchwil ac, fel Prifysgol yr ymddiriedir ynddi i ymgymryd ag ymchwil, mae'n rhaid i ni ddangos yn glir ac yn gyson bod ein cymuned ymchwil yn haeddu'r ffydd a roddir ynddi.
Felly, mae'r Brifysgol yn sicrhau bod pawb sy’n ymwneud ag ymchwil yn cael eu hyfforddi i'r safonau uchaf o ran uniondeb ymchwil a'u bod yn ymddwyn ac yn ymgymryd â'u hymchwil mewn modd sy'n parchu urddas, hawliau a lles cyfranogwyr ac sy'n lleihau cymaint â phosib risgiau i gyfranogwyr, ymchwilwyr a thrydydd partïon, ac i'r Brifysgol ei hun.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ref2014:
Yn asesiad 2021, cafodd 86% o ymchwil gyffredinol y Brifysgol ei hystyried o safon sy'n arwain y byd neu sy'n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol – cynnydd o 80% oddi ar yr ymarfer REF blaenorol yn 2014.
Rydym yn parhau i gael ein cydnabod am effaith ein hymchwil, sy'n gwneud gwahaniaeth real, cadarnhaol i fywydau pobl ar hyd a lled y byd.
Mae 86% o’n hymchwil, a gafodd ei beirniadu gan banel o arbenigwyr REF, yn cael effaith eithriadol a sylweddol iawn o ran cyrhaeddiad ac arwyddocâd, ar lefel leol, ranbarthol a byd-eang.
Cyfadran y Dyniaethau a'r Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol
Cyfadran Gwyddoniaeth a Pheirianneg
Cyfadran Meddygaeth, Iechyd a Gwyddor Bywyd
Enghreifftiau o Astudiaethau Achos
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn ymgysylltu'n llawn â'r Fframwaith Ymchwil Ardderchog (REF) ac yn darparu gwybodaeth berthnasol, gyfoes am y broses REF i gydweithwyr a rhanddeiliaid allanol.
REF 2014 yw olynydd RAE 2008 ac mae'n asesu ymchwil ar draws Intuitions Addysg Uwch (SAUau) yn y DU.
Trwy REF, mae cyrff cyllido'r DU yn datblygu ac yn cynnal sector ymchwil ddeinamig sy'n gystadleuol yn rhyngwladol sy'n gwneud cyfraniad mawr at ffyniant economaidd, lles cenedlaethol ac ehangu a lledaenu gwybodaeth.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ein-hamgylchedd-ymchwil-/staff-ymchwil:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n ymrwymedig i ddatblygu'n doniau ymchwil.
Rydym yn cynnig ystod o gyfleoedd datblygu gyrfaol ac yn eich annog i archwilio'n gwasanaethau hyfforddiant a'n hadnoddau i'ch helpu i wneud y gorau o'ch amser yn Abertawe.
Rydym yn ymrwymo'n llwyr i'r Concordat Datblygu Ymchwilwyr sy'n amlinellu cyfrifoldebau'n sefydliad, cyrff ariannu, arweinwyr ymchwil ac ymchwilwyr.
Mae'n cynnwys cyfeiriad at ymchwilwyr yn derbyn cyfleoedd, cymorth strwythuredig, anogaeth ac amser i ymgymryd â 10 niwrnod o ddatblygiad proffesiynol bob blwyddyn.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/sefydliad-astudiaethau-uwch-morgan:
Cafodd Sefydliad Astudiaethau Uwch Morgan – SAUM – ei lansio gan Brif Weinidog Cymru ar Chwefror 26ain 2021.
Ni yw’r Sefydliad Astudiaethau Uwch cyntaf yng Nghymru sy’n canolbwyntio ar ymchwil trawsnewidiol rhyngddisgyblaethol.
Mae SAUM yn datblygu cymuned ffyniannus ar raddfa fawr – mudiad sy’n gosod y nod o ymateb ar fyrder i gyfleoedd a heriau mwyaf tyngedfennol y byd.
Mae’n tynnu pobl ynghyd o bob disgyblaeth i ddarganfod ac arloesi gyda phrosesau, deunyddiau, technolegau, polisïau ac arferion a fydd yn creu byd sy’n fwy cynaliadwy, cyfiawn, llesol, llawen a gobeithiol.
Bydd SAUM yn helpu i yrru’r Brifysgol yn ei blaen, gan wasanaethu’r ddinas, y rhanbarth, Cymru a’r byd gydag ymchwil a menter o’r radd flaenaf.
Mae hefyd yn rhyw fath o wersyll cychwynnol lle daw grwpiau ynghyd i gael eu hyfforddi, eu cymell a’u hannog i godi eu golygon at y copaon uchaf o ran deallusrwydd ac effaith, gan ein gwneud ni’n barod i ddenu’r cyllid allanol sylweddol sydd ei angen er mwyn bod yn gyfrwng effeithiol i greu newid.
Mae SAUM wedi’i enwi ar ôl y diweddar Rhodri Morgan, cyn Brif Weinidog Cymru a Changhellor Prifysgol Abertawe y mae ei angerdd dros Gymru a’i lle yn y byd yn parhau i’n hysbrydoli.
Eisteddfod Genedlaethol yr Urdd
Professor Matt Jones
Uwch Swyddog Prosiect - Heidi Rees h.j.rees@swansea.ac.uk
Swyddog Cyllid - Jenna Hopkins j.k.hopkins@swansea.ac.uk
Chris Marshall yw Pennaeth Polisi a Strategaeth y Brifysgol.
Mae ganddo ddealltwriaeth gadarn o'r Brifysgol, ar ôl treulio 16 mlynedd yn hyrwyddo ei diwylliant, ei hanes a'i threftadaeth, datblygu ei chryfderau ymchwil, a helpu i osod ei chyfeiriad strategol.
Mae ganddo wybodaeth dda am dirwedd ariannu'r DU ac mae wedi helpu cydweithwyr i ennill dros £100m mewn cyllid ymchwil ers 2012, gan gynnwys ar gyfer seilwaith, rhaglenni meithrin capasiti a mentrau rhyngddisgyblaethol.
Mae wedi cefnogi’r gwaith o ddatblygu a chyflwyno rhaglenni gradd arloesol, ac wedi arwain y gwaith o gyflwyno Uwchgynhadledd Heriau Byd-eang Hillary Rodham Clinton a gynhaliwyd am dri diwrnod ym mis Tachwedd 2021.
Mae Lella Nouri yn Uwch Ddarlithydd Troseddeg ac yn Gyfarwyddwr Rhaglen MA mewn Seiberdrosedd a Therfysgaeth ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Mae Lella hefyd yn rhan o Ganolfan Deallusrwydd Bygythiadau Seiber (CYTREC) Prifysgol Abertawe.
Mae gwaith Lella yn rhyngddisgyblaethol gyda ffocws ar gydweithio ar draws y Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol a Chyfrifiadurol.
Mae gan Lella gysylltiadau cryf â rhanddeiliaid lleol gan gynnwys heddlu Gwrthderfysgaeth, cynghorau lleol, llywodraethau yn ogystal â grwpiau cymunedol sydd â diddordeb.
Am ragor o wybodaeth am Dr Nouri neu i gysylltu, ewch i'w phroffil staff Prifysgol.
Mae Kelly James yn Swyddog Datblygu Ymchwil sy'n cefnogi cydweithwyr yn bennaf yn y Gyfadran Meddygaeth, Iechyd a Gwyddorau Bywyd gydag ymchwil a datblygu ceisiadau, a hi yw arweinydd sefydliadol Y Cyngor Ymchwil Biotechnoleg a Gwyddorau Biolegol (BBSRC).
Mae Kelly yn angerddol am ymchwil draws-ddisgyblaethol ac yn dod o gefndir ymchwil amlddisgyblaethol, ar ôl ennill ei Doethuriaeth ar y rhyngwyneb Ffiseg-Gwyddor Bywyd.
Mae Karl yn Athro yn Ysgol Feddygol Prifysgol Abertawe ac yn Gyfarwyddwr y Ganolfan NanoIechyd.
Mae ei ddiddordebau'n canolbwyntio ar agweddau trosiadol ar beirianneg fiofeddygol.
Mae Karl yn dod â phrofiad mewn ymchwil ryngddisgyblaethol, gan weithio ar y rhyngwyneb Peirianneg a Gwyddorau Bywyd, ac mae wedi sefydlu cydweithrediadau â chlinigwyr ym Mwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Bae Abertawe.
Mae Kimberly A.
Dienes yn Ddarlithydd mewn Seicoleg Glinigol ac Iechyd ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Mae hi'n ymchwilio i sensitifrwydd straen biolegol a seicolegol a sut y gall straen arwain at ganlyniadau clinigol ac iechyd negyddol.
Mae hi'n cydweithio'n genedlaethol ac yn rhyngwladol ar brosiectau ymchwil gan gynnwys pynciau fel: risg ar gyfer iselder (Prifysgol Rochester, UDA), llwyth alostatig, ansicrwydd yn y gweithle, a chyfathrebu perthynol (Prifysgol Manceinion), effaith ymgysylltu ym myd natur ar les (Down to Earth), nam ar y golwg, sglerosis ymledol a barn y cyhoedd am bandemig y coronafeirws (Prifysgol Abertawe).
Mae wedi derbyn cyllid gan y Cyngor Ymchwil Feddygol ac Iechyd Cyhoeddus Cymru ac wedi cyhoeddi nifer o erthyglau.
Mae hi'n aelod o Is-grŵp Cyfathrebu am Risg a Mewnwelediadau Ymddygiadol (RCBI) Grŵp Cynghori Technegol (TAG) Llywodraeth Cymru ar gyfer COVID-19.
Rwy'n Swyddog Ymchwil Ôl-ddoethurol ar gyfer UnMute , prosiect ymchwil rhyngddisgyblaethol sy’n cael ei ariannu gan yr EPSRC ac sy'n creu cyfleoedd rhyngweithio iaith lafar newydd gyda chymunedau o siaradwyr ieithoedd lleiafrifol nad ydynt ar hyn o bryd yn ‘cael eu clywed’ yn ddigidol.
Rwy'n gweithio yn y Ffowndri Gyfrifiadol hardd ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe gyda chydweithwyr anhygoel.
Rwyf hefyd yn arwain ar y rhaglen labletau rhyngwladol sy’n cael ei ariannu gan MASI ac sy'n arloesi ffyrdd o gyd-greu gyda chymunedau ymylol mewn byd sydd wedi'i siapio'n ddwfn gan y pandemig coronafeirws parhaus.
Drwy fy ngyrfa, rwy'n defnyddio’r sgiliau a'r ymwybyddiaeth a ddatblygais yn ystod fy Noethuriaeth yn y Ganolfan TGCh ar gyfer Datblygu ym Mhrifysgol Cape Town: dylunio, datblygu a gwerthuso technolegau newydd sy'n rhoi gwell mynediad, ymwybyddiaeth a rheolaeth i bobl bob dydd dros y pethau sy'n bwysig iddyn nhw.
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth a'r rhan fwyaf o fy nghyhoeddiadau ar gael ar fy ngwefan .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/cenhadaeth-ddinesig:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi gweithio gyda miloedd o sefydliadau preifat a sefydliadau o’r sector cyhoeddus a’r sector gwirfoddol, a’r rheiny o bob math a maint, i ysgogi twf economaidd, meithrin ffyniant, cyfoethogi’r gymuned leol a diwylliant Cymru a chyfrannu at iechyd a lles ein dinasyddion.
Fel Prifysgol a arweinir gan ymchwil sydd wedi’i lleoli mewn un o’r rhanbarthau mwyaf difreintiedig yng ngogledd Ewrop (Gorllewin Cymru a’r Cymoedd), mae datblygiad economaidd a chymdeithasol rhanbarthol yn brif flaenoriaeth sy’n ein cymell i weithio ar dros 30 o brosiectau cydweithredol academaidd/diwydiannol a ariennir gan yr UE ac sy’n cael ei harwain gan alw.
Mae’r prosiectau hyn, sy’n werth dros £130 miliwn, yn cyflwyno manteision economaidd a chymdeithasol i Gymru ar hyn o bryd, gan ysgogi buddsoddi mewnol, creu swyddi newydd, cynyddu sgiliau’r gweithlu a chefnogi’r gwaith o sefydlu ac ehangu sefydliadau newydd.
Mae’r prosiectau canlynol ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe wedi derbyn arian sy’n cefnogi pobl i achub ar gyfleoedd gwaith, ymchwil ac arloesi, ynni adnewyddadwy ac effeithlonrwydd ynni ac i fusnesau fod yn fwy cystadleuol.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwyl-wyddoniaeth-abertawe:
Croeso i Ŵyl Wyddoniaeth Abertawe, yr ŵyl fwyaf o'i bath yng Nghymru!
Daeth dros 6,000 o bobl i'r ŵyl yn 2024, a ddechreuodd gyda digwyddiad gwych a gynhaliwyd cyn dechrau'r penwythnos yng nghanolfan Taliesin ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, gan gynnwys 'The Magical Mr West’ a'i berfformiad cyfareddol, Crafty Fools.
Roedd pinacl y penwythnos yn cynnwys y cyflwynydd teledu adnabyddus, Andy Day, gyda'i sioe gyffrous, Andy’s Dino Rap.
Drwy gydol y penwythnos, gwnaeth pawb fwynhau 40 o stondinau arddangos a sioeau AM DDIM, a oedd i gyd yn arddangos ymchwil Prifysgol Abertawe sy'n torri tir newydd.
Archwiliodd ymwelwyr ynni hydrogen, cwrddon nhw â chŵn a chathod robotig, dysgon nhw am y broses o fymïo yn yr Hen Aifft a dysgon nhw sut i werthfawrogi cynrhon, hyd yn oed!
Roedd uchafbwyntiau'r penwythnos yn cynnwys gweithdy rap gwyddoniaeth gyda'r cyflwynydd Jon Chase, sgyrsiau difyr â'r seren TikTok Big Manny, y fforiwr nodedig Ray Mears a'r cyflwynydd teledu bywyd gwyllt, Megan McCubbin.
Bob blwyddyn, mae'r ŵyl yn dangos y gall gwyddoniaeth fod yn ddifyr i bobl o bob oedran, p'un a ydych chi'n gwneud, yn archwilio neu'n darganfod.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cydweithredwch-a-ni:
Rydym yn gweithio gyda phartneriaid o bob math ar draws pob sector o bwys i gyflawni amrywiaeth o nodau sefydliadol.
Ni waeth am eich her, gall ein hamrywiaeth eang o arbenigedd a’n meddylfryd arloesol gyflwyno ymagwedd newydd i’ch cynnyrch, eich proses a datblygiad eich gwasanaeth.
Darllenwch fwy am ein harbenigedd, ein cyfleusterau, ein partneriaethau a'n cyfleoedd ariannu .
Cysylltwch â'n tîm ymgysylltu â busnes, a fydd yn barod i helpu
Cysylltwch â ni nawr
Cysylltwch â ni a sefydliadau eraill ledled y rhanbarth
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth ar gael yma
Mae menter a busnes yn ganolog i arloesi yn Ysgol Gyfun Swansea.
Fel sefydliad sy'n canolbwyntio ar ymchwil, ein gweledigaeth yw bod yn brifysgol fyd-eang arweiniol sydd wedi'i chydnabyddio am rymuso unigolion i greu newid positif yn y byd drwy fenter, arloesi, partneriaeth, cyfnewid gwybodaeth, a chymdeithas sy'n ymgysylltu'n drawsnewidiol.
Rydym yn ceisio creu etifeddiaeth barhaol o effaith a gwerth ychwanegol sy'n oblygu bywydau unigolion a chymunedau, yn awr ac yn y dyfodol.
Mae Strategaeth Menter Ysgol Gyfun Swansea 2023-28 yn arwain twf ei gweithgareddau menterol a masnachol, ac yn galluogi newidiadau i'w strwythurau gweithredol gyda chysylltiad cryf â’r argymhellion a roddwyd yn Adolygiad Annibynnol o Gwmnïau Spinout Prifysgolion (a gyhoeddwyd Tachwedd 2023).
Mae ein prifysgol yn perfformio'n llawer gwell na'r disgwyl o ran gweithgaredd menterol, gan ei lleoli 9fed yn y DU ar adroddiad 2024 Spotlight on Spinouts gan Beauhurst, gan greu dros 60 o spinouts ers dechrau 2011.
Mae’r cwmnïau hyn wedi codi £51.9m o gyfalaf drwy 65 o gylchrediadau ariannu gwahanol.
Mewn ymateb i’r Adolygiad Annibynnol o Gwmnïau Spinout Prifysgolion (2023), ac yn dilyn canfyddiadau adolygiad allanol a gomisiynwyd gan ni yn ein portffolio spinout a strwythur llywodraethu, mae Swansea ar hyn o bryd yn diweddaru ei bolisïau a'i brosesau gyda'r nod o fabwysiadu argymhellion yr adolygiad yn sylweddol.
Er bod eisoes yn cyd-fynd â therfynau'r fargen o’r adolygiad spinout a chanllaw USIT, mae ein diweddariad yn ceisio cyflawni mwy o effeithlonrwydd a gwell amserlenni trwy gyfarwyddyd gwell yn ogystal â mwy o dryloywder a agoredrwydd mewn prosesau.
Ein nod yw mabwysiadu telerau safonol drwy ddull fframwaith, gan roi cyfarwyddyd ar sefyllfaoedd lle mae pethau’n gallu gwahaniaethu.
Yn unol â chanllaw USIT, rydym bob amser yn ystyried pob cyfle ar ei fanteision unigol ac fel un fargen gyfan nid yn unig yn canolbwyntio ar un agwedd fel cyfranddaliadau.
I ddarllen mwy am lwyddiant Swansea wrth greu Spin-outs, gallwch weld mwy o ddata yn Spotlight 2024 Beauhurst ar spinouts .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cydweithredwch-a-ni/datblygwch-eich-prosiectau:
Ers i ni gael ein sefydlu ym 1920, mae ein gwerthoedd wedi bod yn seiliedig ar ein cyfrifoldeb dinesig.
Mae cyfoethogi bywydau ac arferion ein cymuned amrywiol wrth wraidd yr hyn rydym yn ei wneud.
Drwy ein hymchwil sy'n arwain y ffordd yn fyd-eang ac yn rhagori'n rhyngwladol, a'n gweithgareddau cyfnewid gwybodaeth a gweithio mewn partneriaeth, rydym yn helpu i wella a llywio sefydliadau, unigolion a grwpiau o bob math, gan gynnwys: elusennau, busnesau a llywodraethau, gan ddathlu ein cymuned a'n diwylliant Cymreig, sy'n destun balchder i ni.
O brosiectau tymor byr i gydweithrediadau ymchwil tymor hwy, gall gweithio gydag ymchwilwyr o'r radd flaenaf mewn amrywiaeth o sectorau arbenigol eich helpu i ddatblygu atebion creadigol i heriau sefydliadol.
Wrth wraidd ein cryfder ymchwil y mae rhwydwaith o fentrau rhyngddisgyblaethol, a chanolfannau rhagoriaeth, a sefydlwyd i alluogi staff sy'n arbenigo mewn meysydd gwahanol i archwilio cysyniadau newydd radical, gan ganolbwyntio ar anghenion arloesi sefydliadau yn y sector preifat, y sector cyhoeddus a'r sector gwirfoddol.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda phartneriaid a chydweithredwyr ledled y byd.
Mae ein hymchwil yn cyflawni effaith economaidd a chymdeithasol sylweddol, barhaus a gwerthfawr yng Nghymru, yn y DU ac yn rhyngwladol.
Gweler mwy am ein hymchwil a'n effaith bresennol, a dewch o hyd i amrywiaeth o arbenigedd drwy ein hacademyddion a'n hymchwilwyr yma yn Abertawe.
Mae aelodau ein Tîm Effaith ac Ymgysylltu ar gael i'ch helpu ar unrhyw gam o'ch taith gydweithredol a gallant eich cynorthwyo gyda'ch ymholiadau a helpu i'ch cysylltu â'r academydd neu'r ymchwilydd iawn, gan ddibynnu ar eich prosiect.
Dewch o hyd i Swyddogion Effaith ac Ymgysylltu pob un o'n cyfadrannau isod, neu os nad ydych yn siŵr at bwy dylech gyfeirio eich ymholiad, mae croeso i chi e-bostio collaborations@abertawe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cydweithredwch-a-ni/ymgynghori:
Mae'r problemau y mae ein partneriaid yn eu hwynebu yn niferus ac rydym yn rhagori wrth eu datrys, gan eich helpu i ganolbwyntio ar ddod o hyd i atebion i'ch problemau.
Mae ein hyblygrwydd i'ch helpu'n cynnwys:
Mae ein Tîm Partneriaethau Strategol hefyd ar gael i'ch cefnogi gyda'r canlynol:
Er mwyn cysylltu â'r Tîm Partneriaethau Strategol, a wnewch chi e-bostio business.enquiries@abertawe.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cydweithredwch-a-ni/cyfleoedd-ariannu:
Rydym yn gweithio gyda llawer o gyrff ariannu sy'n gallu cefnogi eich cydweithrediad â ni, gan gynnwys Ymchwil ac Arloesi yn y DU (UKRI), Innovate UK, grantiau SMART Innovate UK a chynlluniau rhanbarthol.
Mae'r partneriaethau hyn yn rhoi mynediad i chi at arbenigedd a gwybodaeth academaidd i helpu i drawsnewid eich sefydliad neu eich busnes, datrys problemau, gwella gallu i gystadlu, cynhyrchiant a pherfformiad a thrawsnewid eich busnes yn y pen draw.
Rhagor o wybodaeth .
Mae'r rhaglen hon yn helpu busnesau yng Nghymru i ddatblygu cynhyrchion, prosesau a gwasanaethau newydd, eu rhoi ar waith a'u masnacheiddio.
Gall y cyllid hwn helpu eich busnes, ni waeth am ba gam o'r daith arloesi rydych wedi ei gyrraedd!
Mae'n cefnogi gweithgarwch ymchwil a datblygu o astudiaethau dichonolrwydd, ymchwil ddiwydiannol i ddatblygu prawf o gysyniad, datblygu arbrofol i ddangos canlyniadau'r ymchwil ar waith, ac, yn olaf, y cam masnacheiddio.
Gall defnyddio taleb arloesedd SMART Cymru eich galluogi i gael gafael ar arbenigedd allanol; os hoffech gysylltu ag un neu fwy o'n hacademyddion, a wnewch chi gysylltu â ni.
Mae'r gystadleuaeth hon, a ariennir yn rhannol gan Innovate UK, yn chwilio am syniadau trawsnewidiol a masnachol ddichonol, arloesol neu darfol.
Rhaid i geisiadau gael eu harwain gan gwmni yn y DU a gallant fod yn unigol neu'n gydweithredol, gan ddibynnu ar faint y prosiect (rhaid cynnwys busnes bach neu ganolig).
Rhagor o wybodaeth.
Mae'r ISCF (Cronfa Her y Strategaeth Ddiwydiannol) yn mynd i'r afael â'r heriau cymdeithasol mawr y mae busnesau yn y DU yn eu hwynebu heddiw.
Mae'n cynnwys pedair thema strategaeth ddiwydiannol llywodraeth y DU: twf glân, cymdeithas sy'n heneiddio, dyfodol symudedd, a deallusrwydd artiffisial a'r economi data.
Cefnogir y cynllun gan £2.6bn o arian cyhoeddus, ynghyd â £3bn o arian cyfatebol gan y sector preifat.
Gall busnesau, elusennau a sefydliadau ymchwil gyflwyno cais am y cyllid hwn.
Ceir rhagor o wybodaeth am y cyfleoedd hyn drwy gysylltu â'n Tîm Ymgysylltu â Busnes , sydd ar gael i'ch helpu gydag unrhyw ymholiad.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/dawn:
Rydym yn ymrwymedig i gynhyrchu graddedigion hyderus, hyblyg a chyflogadwy iawn.
Felly, os ydych yn chwilio am rywun i lenwi lleoliad gwaith, rôl ran-amser neu os hoffech gynnig cyfle i fyfyriwr graddedig, gallwn eich helpu i ddod o hyd i'r ymgeisydd perffaith o'n cronfa ddoniau o dros 20,000 o fyfyrwyr.
Bydd ein tîm ymroddedig yn gweithio gyda chi drwy gydol y broses recriwtio er mwyn deall eich anghenion unigol a sicrhau eich bod yn denu'r myfyrwyr a'r graddedigion gorau i'ch sefydliad.
Gallwch hysbysebu eich swyddi gwag drwy'r Parth Cyflogaeth , ein hysbysfwrdd swyddi digidol am ddim, sy'n cael ei ddefnyddio gan ein myfyrwyr a'n graddedigion i chwilio am leoliadau gwaith, rolau rhan-amser a chyfleoedd i raddedigion.
Rhagor o Wybodaeth
Wedi cofrestru eisoes?
Mewngofnodwch yma
LINC Abertawe
Cylchlythyr Busnes
Datganiad Preifatrwydd

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/dawn/recriwtio-ein-myfyrwyr-an-graddedigion:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n darparu mynediad i gronfa o dros 20,000 o fyfyrwyr a graddedigion dawnus iawn i lenwi swyddi rhan-amser, rolau i raddedigion a lleoliadau profiad gwaith.
Os ydych am ddatblygu dyfodol eich sefydliad, neu os oes gennych brosiect mae angen ei gwblhau, mae gennym raglen profiad gwaith i ddiwallu'ch anghenion.
Rydym yn trefnu lleoliadau gwaith ac interniaethau ar gyfer myfyrwyr a graddedigion ag amrywiaeth eang o ddyheadau gyrfa, o bob disgyblaeth ac ar bob lefel.
Bydd o fudd i'ch sefydliad Gall profiad gwaith eich rhoi mewn cysylltiad â myfyrwyr disglair sy'n gallu helpu i gefnogi eich sefydliad ar waith prosiect tymor byr neu gyfnod sefydlog.
Mae'n cynnig gwybodaeth arbenigol a safbwynt allanol, gan roi cyfle i'r busnes weld darpar aelodau staff posib wrth eu gwaith cyn gwneud penderfyniadau recriwtio.
Byddai lleoliad gwaith delfrydol yn
Telir ein interniaethau a ariennir yn unol â'r Sefydliad Cyflog Byw Cenedlaethol.
Gall interniaethau amrywio o ran hyd, gan ddibynnu ar anghenion a gofynion eich busnesau; fodd bynnag, gallant fod am uchafswm o 420 awr.
Mae croeso i gyflogwyr ddarparu cyllid ychwanegol ar gyfer interniaethau os ydynt yn dymuno.
sylwer: Cysylltwch â ni i drafod eich anghenion cyllid cyn i chi ddechrau hysbysebu eich lleoliadau gwaith.
Mae’r cyllid sydd ar gael yn gyfyngedig i fyfyrwyr sydd wedi'u cofrestru ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe ar hyn o bryd, neu'r rhai sydd wedi cwblhau eu cwrs o fewn y 15 mis diwethaf.
Mae dros 5000 o fyfyrwyr yn graddio o Brifysgol Abertawe bob blwyddyn felly, os oes gennych gyfleoedd i raddedigion yng Nghymru, y DU neu'n fyd-eang, gallwn eich helpu i ddod o hyd i'r ymgeisydd iawn ar gyfer eich sefydliad.
Yn ogystal â hynny, wrth iddynt astudio, mae ein myfyrwyr bob amser yn cadw llygad am swyddi rhan-amser addas i ychwanegu at eu hincwm a'u helpu i gael profiad felly, os oes gennych rôl yr hoffech ei llenwi, gallwn helpu.
Dysgwch ragor am fentergarwch ein myfyrwyr, beth maen nhw wedi bod yn gwneud, a sut y gallwch chi gymryd rhan.
Cysylltwch â ni heddiw i drafod sut gall ein myfyrwyr a'n graddedigion dawnus wneud gwahaniaeth i'ch sefydliad.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/dawn/gair-gan-ein-myfyrwyr:
Os ydych yn gwmni rhyngwladol neu’n fenter newydd, os hoffech ddod i ffair yrfaoedd brysur neu gynnig digwyddiad pwrpasol, gallwn eich helpu i lunio doniau'r dyfodol ar gyfer eich diwydiant.
Dewch i'n Ffair Yrfaoedd flynyddol yn yr hydref i gwrdd â'ch darpar aelodau staff graddedig nesaf.
Mae ein Ffair Yrfaoedd, a gynhelir dros ddau ddiwrnod ac ar ddau gampws, yn denu mwy na 2000 o fyfyrwyr o bob un o'n meysydd pwnc.
Bydd Ffair Yrfaoedd nesaf yn cael ei chynnal ar:
Campws Singleton: Dydd Mawrth 14 Hydref 2025 , 10:30 - 15:00
Campws y Bae: Dydd Mercher 15 Hydref 2025 , 10:30 - 15:00
E-bostiwch ein Cydlynydd Digwyddiadau Cyflogwyr, Linda, am rhagor o wybodaeth.
Mae ein Ffair Swyddi Rhan-amser fell arfer fe'i cynhelir ar ddechrau mis Hydref a dechrau mis Chwefror bob blwyddyn.
Rhagor o fanylion yn dod yn fuan.
Gallwn drefnu digwyddiad sy'n rhoi sylw ar y cyflogwr, wedi'i deilwra i'ch anghenion, a fydd yn datblygu dealltwriaeth myfyriwr o'ch sector ac yn hyrwyddo'ch busnes.
Os hoffech fwy o wybodaeth neu i drafod sut y gallwch ymgysylltu â'n myfyrwyr a'n graddedigion dawnus, cysylltwch â ni.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/dawn/hysbysebwch-eich-swyddi:
I gysylltu â'n myfyrwyr a'n graddedigion dawnus, hysbysebwch eich swyddi gwag yn y Job Teaser , ein hysbysfwrdd swyddi digidol am ddim.
Caiff ei ddefnyddio gan ein myfyrwyr a'n graddedigion a gallwch hysbysebu unrhyw rolau yn y DU, gan gynnwys lleoliadau gwaith, interniaethau, swyddi rhan-amser a gyrfaoedd i raddedigion.
Mae Job Teaser yn:
Sylwch, Nid ydym yn gallu hysbysebu cyfleoedd llawrydd ar ein bwrdd swyddi.
Os ydych am gymryd intern cyflogedig, cysylltwch â ni i drafod eich gofynion ariannu yn y lle cyntaf.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cpd:
Mae ein cyrsiau hyfforddi’n cynnwys amrywiaeth eang o ddisgyblaethau ac maent yn hygyrch i sefydliadau ar draws Cymru, y DU a’r byd.
Fe’u cyflwynir gan arbenigwyr yn eu meysydd, gyda mewnbwn gan ddiwydiant, ac mae ein cyrsiau’n hyblyg, gan alluogi dysgwyr proffesiynol i astudio ar y cyd â’u hymrwymiadau gwaith.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cpd/cyrsiau:
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o gyrsiau Datblygiad Proffesiynol, wedi'u hachredu neu heb eu hachredu, a gynlluniwyd i ddatblygu'r sgiliau a'r wybodaeth mae eu hangen arnoch i gyflawni'ch nodau busnes.
Rydym yn cynnig rhaglenni sefydledig a rhai y gellir eu datblygu i ddiwallu anghenion eich busnes, wedi'u darparu gan arbenigwyr yn eu meysydd a'u hategu gan ragoriaeth ymchwil ac addysgu o safon fyd-eang.
Mae ein cyrsiau'n hyblyg hefyd a gellir eu cynnig ar sail astudio rhan-amser neu ddysgu yn y gweithle.
Os ydych yn chwilio am rywbeth sy’n bodloni gofynion unigol eich sefydliad rydym yn fwy na hapus i weithio gyda chi i lunio rhaglen benodol i chi.
Dan arweiniad Prifysgol Abertawe, mae rhaglenni arweinyddiaeth ION yn gwreiddio newid parhaol a chadarnhaol mewn arferion arweinyddiaeth, canolbwyntio ar ddod o hyd i atebion i'r heriau go iawn mae arweinwyr, ar bob lefel, yn eu hwynebu bob dydd.
Mae cyfranogwyr yn datblygu sgiliau o safon uchel â'r nod o gynyddu cynhyrchiant yn y gweithle, gan ddatblygu mentrau proffidiol a chynaliadwy sy'n cyfoethogi bywydau eu gweithwyr ac yn cael effaith gadarnhaol ar yr economi.
Cyflwynir y rhaglenni hyn gan arbenigwyr busnes, sy'n entrepreneuriaid i'r carn ac maent yn seiliedig ar ddysgu ymarferol, drwy brofiad, gyda grŵp o gymheiriaid y gellir ymddiried ynddynt.
Cychwynnodd yr Academi Deunyddiau a Gweithgynhyrchu (M2A) yn 2015 gyda'r nod o greu arweinwyr diwydiant Cymru'r dyfodol drwy ymchwil ôl-raddedig a noddir gan ddiwydiant.
Mae M2A yn adeiladu ar 25 mlynedd o brofiad o ddarparu Doethuriaethau Peirianneg a dyma oedd un o'r canolfannau arloesol ar gyfer darparu cymwysterau Doethuriaethau Peirianneg.
Mae M2A wedi mwyafu ar swm y cyllid sydd ar gael trwy ddefnyddio Cronfeydd Strwythurol Ewropeaidd i fanteisio i’r eithaf ar arian UKRI, gan gynnwys dwy Ganolfan Hyfforddiant Doethurol mewn Haenau Swyddogaethol yn y gweithrediad.
Cysylltwch gyda ni

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-masnachol:
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o gyfleusterau ar gyfer digwyddiadau a mannau cyfarfod hyblyg ar Gampws y Bae a Champws Singleton felly os ydych chi am gynnal cyfarfod, digwyddiad neu gynhadledd, gallwn ni ddiwallu eich anghenion.
Gallwn hefyd eich helpu i ddatblygu cyfleoedd masnachol mewn meysydd megis rheoli cyfleusterau, chwaraeon, manwerthu, arlwyo a digwyddiadau felly byddem yn croesawu'r cyfle i weithio gyda'r sefydliad ar sail ymgynghori neu bartneriaeth.
Gan dynnu ar arbenigedd o Brifysgol Abertawe a'n partneriaid, byddwn yn gweithio gyda chi bob cam o'r ffordd i sicrhau bod eich digwyddiad neu eich prosiect yn llwyddiannus.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-masnachol/partneriaethau-masnachol:
Rydym wedi datblygu partneriaethau hirdymor gyda sefydliadau amrywiol dros y blynyddoedd i gyflwyno digwyddiadau mawr, rheoli cyfleusterau, neu lansio mentrau cymunedol i enwi dim ond rhai.
Gallwn bartneru â’ch sefydliad ar brosiectau ar raddfa fawr neu gynnig gwasanaeth ymgynghori pwrpasol ar gyfer eich sefydliad.
Hyd yma rydym wedi cefnogi mentrau mawr yn llwyddiannus gan gynnwys:
Mae ein Gwasanaethau Masnachol yn cynnig gwasanaeth ymgynghori a gallant gefnogi eich sefydliad gyda:
Cysylltwch â'n tîm gwybodaeth busnes
Dysgwch ragor am ein harbenigedd
Sut rydym wedi gweithio gyda busnesau a diwydiant

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-masnachol/cyfleoedd-noddi-ac-ymgysylltu:
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, mae ein cymuned yn annog arbrofi a darganfod.
Dros y 18 mis diwethaf, rydym wedi dechrau adeiladu ar y sylfaen hon drwy ddatblygu ffyrdd y gall eich busnes fod yn rhan o'n cymuned yn y Brifysgol.
Os hoffech gynyddu ymwybyddiaeth o'ch brand, ymgysylltu â'r gymuned leol neu ysgogi refeniw, gallwch wella eich amcanion busnes drwy noddi ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Ymunwch â ni am flwyddyn ein canmlwyddiant a bod yn bartner yn un o'r ffyrdd canlynol:
Byddwn yn diweddaru cynnwys ein tudalen 'Cyfleoedd Noddi ac Ymgysylltu' yn rheolaidd yn ystod blwyddyn ein canmlwyddiant.
Ar gyfer ymholiadau noddi masnachol, defnyddiwch y botwm isod i gysylltu â ni.
Holi Yma

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-masnachol/cyflenwi-prifysgol-abertawe:
Nod Prifysgol Abertawe yw sicrhau bod nwyddau a gwasanaethau'n cael eu darparu'n amserol mewn modd effeithlon, effeithiol a moesegol, tra'n sicrhau gwerth am arian.
Felly mae nifer o ffyrdd y gallwch dendro am ein busnes:
Os ydym yn chwilio am bartneriaid masnachol i gynnig gwasanaethau ar y campws (e.e.
arlwyo, manwerthu) bydd y cyfleoedd hyn yn cael eu hysbysebu ar-lein trwy borth GwerthwchiGymru (Sell2Wales).
Ar gyfer ein contractau gwerth mwy mae ein gofynion yn cael eu tendro’n uniongyrchol drwy e-DendroCymru felly dylai cyflenwyr sydd â diddordeb mewn cyflawni’r tendrau hyn ymateb yn unol â hynny i’r ‘Gwahoddiadau i Dendro’ a roddir yma.
Mae contractau o'r gwerth uchaf yn cael eu hysbysebu yng Nghyfnodolyn Swyddogol yr Undeb Ewropeaidd.
Cyfrifoldeb adrannau a cholegau unigol yw penderfyniadau prynu gwerth isel, felly cysylltwch â ni a byddwn yn ceisio eich cyfeirio at yr aelod mwyaf priodol o staff.
Rydym bob amser yn croesawu ceisiadau gan ddarpar gyflenwyr felly os oes gennych rywbeth i'w gynnig i ni, cysylltwch â ni .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/llogi-ein-cyfleusterau:
O gyfleusterau a chyfarpar ymchwil o'r radd flaenaf i'ch cefnogi i ddatblygu cynhyrchion, systemau a gwasanaethau newydd, i leoliadau i gynnal digwyddiadau a chynadleddau, mae gennym adnoddau ar Gampws Parc Singleton a Champws y Bae i ddiwallu'ch anghenion.
Nid ydym yn llogi lle ar y campws fel gweithgarwch masnachol safonol ar hyn o bryd.
Am brosiectau sydd wedi'u cysylltu'n agos â'n gweithgareddau ymchwil ac arloesi, efallai y byddwn yn gallu cynnig mannau arbenigol, felly os oes diddordeb gennych mewn cydweithio, cysylltwch â ni .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cydweithredwch-a-ni/cyfleusterau-cyfarpar-a-mannau-deori:
Gwnewch yn fawr o gyfleusterau o’r radd flaenaf a adeiladwyd at y diben , cyfarpar a hyfforddiant a chymorth technegol ar y safle sy’n gallu eich helpu i gael mantais gystadleuol a gwella eich gallu i arloesi, yn ogystal â lleihau eich gwariant ar ymchwil a datblygu mewnol.
Yn ogystal, gallwch gyrchu adnoddau diwylliannol a chelfyddydol helaeth, gan gynnwys archifau, llyfrgelloedd, amgueddfeydd a mannau arddangos.
Drwy weithio gyda Phrifysgol Abertawe, gall eich sefydliad wneud y canlynol:
Mae Sefydliad Awen yn dod ag ymchwilwyr blaenllaw ynghyd â phobl hŷn a'r diwydiannau creadigol i gyd-greu cynhyrchion, gwasanaethau ac amgylcheddau ar gyfer poblogaeth sy'n fwyfwy hŷn.
Mae CISM yn darparu amrywiaeth o wasanaethau, o ymchwil sylfaenol i ymchwil a datblygu technoleg cymhwysol, prototeipio a datblygu prosesau, gwasanaethau arbenigol, deori, ymgysylltu, hyfforddiant a mynediad at bortffolio grantiau arloesi'r DU a'r UE.
Mae gan CSAR systemau dyframaethu ailgylchdroi modern y gellir eu rhaglennu'n llawn.
Yn y ganolfan cynhelir ymchwil gymhwysol i ystod amrywiol o organebau dyfrol, o amgylcheddau tymherus i drofannol, ac o amgylcheddau morol i ddŵr croyw.
Dyma fenter ar y cyd rhwng Prifysgol Abertawe a Bwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Bae Abertawe.
Mae'r datblygiad yn seiliedig ar egwyddorion ymchwil ac addysg feddygol sy'n hybu iechyd y boblogaeth.
Prif rôl y Cyfleuster Delweddu Clinigol yw bod yn ganolfan sy'n hwyluso ymchwil glinigol.
Y tair prif haen yw ymchwil glinigol sy'n seiliedig ar fferylliaeth ym maes oncoleg, defnyddio MRI yn glinigol a datblygu llwybrau clinigol sy'n seiliedig ar ddelweddu.
Mae’r Ganolfan Eifftaidd yn amgueddfa ar Gampws Parc Singleton sy'n ymroddedig i ddiogelu'r casgliad o henebion y Hen Aifft a rheoli'r casgliad hwnnw, ac mae ganddi gyfleusterau dysgu ac addysgu sydd wedi'u hintegreiddio fel rhan o weithrediadau craidd y ganolfan ar gyfer darparu swyddogaethau ymchwil a chyfranogiad i blant a phobl o bob oedran a gallu.
Mae’r Academi Iechyd a Llesiant yn cynnig amrywiaeth o wasanaethau fforddiadwy a hyblyg i gefnogi cymuned de-orllewin Cymru.
Mae gwasanaethau'r Academi'n ategu'r rhai hynny a ddarperir gan y GIG ac yn galluogi pobl i wneud penderfyniadau deallus a chadarnhaol ynghylch eu ffordd o fyw a gwella eu hiechyd a'u lles.
Mae'r gwasanaethau'n cynnwys: osteopatheg, clywedeg a chardioleg.
Dewch yn aelod o rwydwaith bywiog o fusnesau gwyddor bywyd o'r un meddylfryd, gan rentu swyddfa bwrpasol neu beidio.
Mae swyddfeydd i'w llogi yn Lon Sgeti, Ysbyty Morriston a Phrifysgol Abertawe.
Os ydych chi'n berson neu sefydliad yn y sector technoleg chwaraeon, technoleg meddygol, arloesi neu les, llenwch y ffurflen hon a byddwn yn cysylltu â chi
Mae’r JCRF yn meddu ar arbenigedd mewn astudiaethau cam II – III aml-ganolfan a phortffolio cadarn sy'n mynd i'r afael â llawer o'r heriau presennol i iechyd – rhai wrth asesu meddyginiaethau newydd ac eraill wrth asesu dyfeisiau newydd.
Mae eu hastudiaethau'n cwmpasu diabetes, clefyd y galon, sglerosis ymledol a llawer o gyflyrau meddygol eraill.
Archifau Richard Burton yw cof corfforaethol a chronfa archifau Prifysgol Abertawe, sy'n dal deunyddiau o arwyddocâd lleol, rhanbarthol a chenedlaethol.
Mae'r Archifau yn dethol y cofnodion o werth hanesyddol y mae'r Brifysgol wedi'u creu ac wedi cael gafael arnynt, gan eu cadw a sicrhau eu bod yn hygyrch i bawb.
Mae SaMI yn gyfleuster mynediad agored sy'n gweithio'n bennaf gyda'r diwydiant dur a metelau i ddarparu atebion arloesol ymarferol.
Mae SMaRT yn labordy profion mecanyddol yn y DU a achredir gan Wasanaeth Achredu'r Deyrnas Unedig (UKAS), sy'n canolbwyntio ar fesur priodoleddau deunyddiau a phennu perfformiad deunyddiau/cydrannau metelig, yn ogystal â chyfansoddion matricsau ceramig.
Mae SMaRT yn gweithio ochr yn ochr â’r Sefydliad Deunyddiau Adeileddol (ISM), sy'n darparu dehongliad academaidd o ddata profion mecanyddol a phrosiectau ymchwil cydweithredol.
Mae Uned Dreialon Abertawe'n cynnig cyngor a chymorth ynghylch methodoleg i dimau clinigol, wrth gynllunio treialon newydd ac wrth wneud ceisiadau am grantiau.
Mae'n gweithio gyda thimau treialon i ddatblygu, cychwyn, cynnal, rheoli a dadansoddi astudiaethau a ariennir, a chyflwyno adroddiadau amdanynt.
Mae SUSiM yn defnyddio amrywiaeth o fethodolegau addysg sy'n seiliedig ar efelychu i gefnogi dysgwyr a thimau i ymdrochi, myfyrio a datblygu drwy sefyllfaoedd byd go iawn mewn athroniaeth un rhaglen ar amrywiaeth o safleoedd.
Mae'r Ganolfan yn cyfoethogi bywydau diwylliannol unigolion a chymunedau ledled y rhanbarth, gan gyflwyno profiadau o'r celfyddydau i gynulleidfaoedd yn ein lleoedd ac ar strydoedd Abertawe.
Cysylltwch â'n canolfannau ymchwil drwy gysylltu â hwy'n uniongyrchol drwy eu gwefannau a fydd yn ymddangos yn yr wybodaeth am gyfleusterau uchod.
Fel arall, cysylltwch â'n Swyddogion Effaith ac Ymgysylltu, sydd ar gael i'ch helpu gydag unrhyw ymholiad:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-masnachol/cynnal-cyfarodydd-cynadleddau-a-digwyddiadau:
Ni waeth a ydych yn trefnu cynhadledd fawr neu'n cynnal arddangosfa, yn cynllunio cinio neu gyfarfod neu dderbyniad bach yng Nghymru, mae gan Brifysgol Abertawe ddewis helaeth o leoliadau cyfarfod a digwyddiad, i gyd yn daith gerdded fer o lan môr adnabyddus Abertawe.
Mae ein dewis o leoliadau cynhadledd a digwyddiad yn cynnwys ein Neuadd Fawr fawreddog sy’n werth £32 miliwn ar Gampws y Bae ac sy'n gartref i dair darlithfa fawr, amrywiaeth o fannau hyblyg â llawr gwastad ac Awditoriwm Syr Stanley Clarke sy'n cynnig 700 o seddau ynghyd ag acwsteg o safon fyd-eang a thechnoleg glyweled o'r radd flaenaf.
Mae ein pecynnau fforddiadwy i gynadleddwyr yn cynnig gwasanaethau arlwyo a chymorth digwyddiadau rhagorol gan dîm o arbenigwyr digwyddiadau proffesiynol; mae gan ein campysau amrywiaeth o gyfleusterau o fewn cyrraedd hwylus i'ch cynadleddwyr, gan gynnwys caffis a bariau, archfarchnadoedd, cyfleusterau chwaraeon a dewis o lety fforddiadwy a chyfleus ar y safle rhwng mis Gorffennaf a mis Medi.
Os hoffech ragor o wybodaeth neu os oes gennych ymholiad am gynnal digwyddiad ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, cysylltwch â ni.
Ewch i'n gwefan a dysgu sut i gynnal eich digwyddiad nesaf ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Cliciwch yma i fynd i'n gwefan.
Nid ydym yn prydlesu lle ar y campws fel gweithgarwch masnachol safonol ar hyn o bryd.
Am brosiectau sydd â chysylltiad agos â'n gweithgareddau ymchwil ac arloesi, efallai y byddwn yn gallu cynnig mannau arbenigol, felly os oes diddordeb gennych mewn cydweithredu, cysylltwch â ni.
Cofrestrwch am ein rhestr bostio i dderbyn newyddion.
PARC DEWI SANT – YSTAFELLOEDD CYFARFOD I’W HURIO YNG NGHAERFYRDDIN

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cysylltwch-a-ni:
Am fwy o wybodaeth ac i drafod sut gallwn weithio gyda’ch sefydliad, cwblhewch y ffurflen ymholiad isod neu ffoniwch ni ar 01792 606060.
Mae ein tîm o staff Gwasanaethau Digwyddiadau ymroddedig sydd â degawdau o brofiad o reoli a chefnogi digwyddiadau'n fwy na hapus i'ch cynorthwyo gyda threfnu digwyddiadau a chynadleddau.
Os oes ymholiad gennych, mae croeso i chi e-bostio'r tîm: events@abertawe.ac.uk
Cedwir eich gwybodaeth gan y Gwasanaethau Ymchwil, Ymgysylltu ac Arloesi ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe yn unol â’n Polisi Preifatrwydd Data.
Cedwir eich gwybodaeth i’n galluogi i gyfathrebu â chi, ateb eich ymholiadau a  darparu arweiniad a gwasanaethau.
Mae angen JavaScript i gyflwyno'r ffurflen hon

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/linc:
Prifysgol Abertawe: Mae LINC yn rhwydwaith cydweithredol a fydd yn galluogi sefydliadau preifat, cyhoeddus ac o'r trydydd sector i gysylltu â'i gilydd a manteisio ar adnoddau ac arbenigedd i gefnogi twf sefydliadol.
Drwy LINC Prifysgol Abertawe, gall sefydliadau gysylltu â graddedigion a myfyrwyr dawnus , elwa o gymorth ymchwil a datblygu o safon fyd-eang , cyfleusterau a chyfarpar o'r radd flaenaf , hyfforddiant a datblygiad sgiliau proffesiynol .
Yn ogystal, bydd aelodau'n gallu manteisio ar rwydwaith cefnogaeth pwerus Prifysgol Abertawe a derbyn gwybodaeth am yr amrywiaeth eang o gyllid a chymorth sydd ar gael i sefydliadau ledled Cymru.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/cadwch-mewn-cysylltiad:
Diolch am eich diddordeb mewn Ymchwil ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Nodwch eich gwybodaeth gyswllt a rhoi gwybod i ni sut yr hoffech gadw mewn cysylltiad:
Trwy gyflwyno'ch ymholiad rydych chi'n cydsynio i'ch data gael ei gadw gan Brifysgol Abertawe.
Defnyddir eich data at ddibenion delio â'ch ymholiad, ac anfon gwybodaeth berthnasol atoch am Brifysgol Abertawe.
Ni fydd Prifysgol Abertawe yn trosglwyddo'ch manylion i unrhyw drydydd parti.
Os ydych chi am dynnu'ch hun o gronfa ddata Prifysgol Abertawe, cysylltwch â'r tîm ymholiadau Ymchwil drwy e-bost research.enquiries@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr:
Croeso i'n rhwydwaith byd-eang o dros 200,000 o raddedigion Abertawe!
P'un a ydych wedi graddio o Brifysgol Abertawe, Coleg Prifysgol Abertawe, neu Goleg Prifysgol Cymru Abertawe, rydym wrth ein bodd eich cael chi yma gyda ni.
Mae bod yn rhan o’n cymuned cyn-fyfyrwyr yn golygu llawer i ni.
Rydyn ni'n wirioneddol werthfawrogi'r rôl rydych chi wedi'i chwarae wrth wneud ein Prifysgol yr hyn ydyw heddiw, ac rydyn ni'n gyffrous i gadw mewn cysylltiad â chi.
Drwy ymuno â'n rhwydwaith o gyn-fyfyrwyr, byddwch yn cael y newyddion diweddaraf, digwyddiadau a chyflawniadau sy'n digwydd yn Abertawe.
Hefyd, mae gennym ni rai cyfleoedd rhwydweithio gwych, adnoddau gyrfa, a digwyddiadau unigryw yn aros amdanoch chi!
Felly, pam aros?
Ymunwch â'n rhwydwaith cyn-fyfyrwyr nawr i gadw mewn cysylltiad â Phrifysgol Abertawe.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen yn fawr at glywed gennych a chadw mewn cysylltiad!
Dysgwch mwy am ein partneriaeth gyda'n cyn-fyfyrwraig a chymrawd anrhydeddus, Anne Boden, sylfaenydd Starling Bank

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/swyddfar-wasg:
Mae cymdeithasegydd o Abertawe wedi'i anrhydeddu gan y cyfnodolyn Current Sociology , a gyhoeddir gan y Sefydliad Cymdeithasegol Rhyngwladol, am ei ymchwil newydd i hunan-optimeiddio, sef term am syniadau ac arferion sydd a’r nod o wella at eich hun yn barhaus.
Mae enghreifftiau'n amrywio o lyfrau a phodlediadau hunangymorth a dyfeisiau hunan-dracio, atchwanegiadau maethol a llawdriniaeth gosmetig.
Mae arbenigwr o Brifysgol Abertawe sy'n ymchwilio i sut i wella sgiliau addysgu ymhlith gweithwyr gofal iechyd proffesiynol wedi ennill ysgoloriaeth deithio gan Gwmni Anrhydeddus Lifrai Cymru, a fydd yn ei alluogi i rannu ei ganfyddiadau yn rhyngwladol.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/amdanom-ni:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi bod yn gwneud gwaith ymchwil o safon fyd-eang ers 1920.
Mae gennym hanes hir o weithio gyda byd busnes a diwydiant, ond heddiw mae ein hymchwil yn cael effaith ehangach o lawer ar iechyd, cyfoeth, diwylliant a lles cymdeithas fyd-eang.
Rydym wedi cael llwyddiant aruthrol dros y blynyddoedd diwethaf wrth i'n gweithgarwch ymchwil ragori ar lawer o brifysgolion mwy.
Fodd bynnag, nid yw hyn wedi amharu ar yr awyrgylch cyfeillgar a hamddenol sydd bob amser wedi bod yn nodweddiadol o'r “profiad o fod yn Abertawe”.
Wrth i ni barhau i fod yn Brifysgol addas ar gyfer yr 21 ain ganrif, edrychwn ymlaen at fod yn sefydliad gwirioneddol fyd-eang, gan ganolbwyntio ar y materion mawr a gwella bywydau, yn ogystal ag ysbrydoli drwy addysgu o hyd.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/lleoliad:
Mae Campws Parc Singleton mewn parcdir a gerddi botaneg, ac yn edrych allan ar draeth Bae Abertawe.
Mae Campws y Bae hefyd ar draeth, a hynny ar yr ochr ddwyreiniol i Abertawe.
Mae disgwyl i Gampws y Bae, datblygiad gwerth £450 miliwn, greu effaith economaidd o fwy na £3 biliwn dros gyfnod o 10 mlynedd.
Gallwch gyrraedd ein campysau’n hwylus ar gludiant cyhoeddus ac yn y car.
Gallwch gael rhagor o wybodaeth am deithio i Brifysgol Abertawe isod.
Wrth deithio tua’r gorllewin ar yr M4, gadewch y draffordd yng Nghyffordd 42 a dilynwch yr arwyddion i Abertawe ar yr A483 (Ffordd Fabian).
Wrth groesi’r afon Tawe, mae’r A483 yn newid i’r A4067.
Parhewch ar hyd y ffordd hon tua’r gorllewin, gan fynd heibio i Archfarchnad Sainsbury’s ar ochr chwith y ffordd.
Ar ôl oddeutu 1.5 milltir, y mae pompren dros y ffordd.
Mae prif fynedfa’r Brifysgol ychydig cyn y bompren, ac fe’i rheolir gan oleuadau traffig.
Wrth i chi nesáu at y goleuadau, gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn y lôn dde, a byddwch yn barod i droi i’r dde i mewn i’r Brifysgol.
Mae parcio ar y campws yn gyfyngedig, felly mae’r Brifysgol yn argymell bod ymwelwyr yn parcio ar y Rec ar Heol y Mwmbwls, sydd gerllaw’r campws drwy daith gerdded fer drwy Barc Singleton.
Neu mae safleoedd Parcio-a-Theithio mawr ym Mhort Tennant ac ar yr A483 tua dwyrain Abertawe; yng Nglandŵr, ar yr A4067 tua gogledd y ddinas.
Mae pob safle ar agor rhwng 7.00 am a 7.00 pm, o ddydd Llun i ddydd Sadwrn.
Wrth deithio ar yr M4, gadewch y draffordd yng Nghyffordd 42 a dilynwch yr arwyddion i Abertawe ar yr A483 (Ffordd Fabian).
Mae Campws y Bae ar ochr chwith Ffordd Fabian, a rheolir y fynedfa gan oleuadau traffig.
Mae parcio i ymwelwyr yn gyfyngedig ar Gampws y Bae, ond mae cyfleuster Parcio a Theithio mawr ar Ffordd Fabian, sydd heb fod ymhell i ffwrdd o Gampws y Bae.
Mae Campws Parc Dewi Sant yn Nghaerfyrddin yn un o'n campysau cysylltiol.
Ar y safle hwn, rydyn ni'n cynnig Nyrsio Oedolion ac ystod o fodiwlau ôl-gofrestru ac ôl-raddedig.
Mae Parc Dewi Sant yn cynnig profiad addysgol o safon uchel i fyfyrwyr yng ngorllewin Cymru mewn lleoliad hygyrch.
Mae Parc Dewi Sant yn cynnwys ystafelloedd ymarfer, ystafelloedd efelychu, ystafell OCSE, darlithfa, ac ystafelloedd dosbarth yn ogystal ag ystafelloedd cyfarfod a'n canolfan adnoddau dysgu gan gynnwys mynediad at gyfrifiaduron a chymorth llyfrgellydd.
Cyfeiriadau i'r Ysgol Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol, Adeilad 3
O gylchfan Pensarn ar ddiwedd yr A48, cymerwch yr allanfa dros Bont Lesneven tuag at Sanclêr.
Wrth y gylchfan nesaf (B&Q), cymerwch yr ail allanfa (ar y dde) tuag at ganol tref Caerfyrddin.
Wrth y gylchfan nesaf, cymerwch yr allanfa gyntaf ac ewch heibio siop Tesco.
Teithiwch yn syth ymlaen wrth y goleuadau traffig.
Wrth y gylchfan fach, cymerwch yr allanfa gyntaf; ewch heibio Cofeb Picton a pharhewch i oleuadau traffig Tre Ioan.
Trowch i'r dde wrth y goleuadau i Heol Ffynnon Jôb.
Ewch yn syth ymlaen - bydd Parc Dewi Sant ar yr ochr chwith ar frig y bryn (ceir arwyddbost).
Google Map : https://goo.gl/maps/8pRYjLQ1oLSewY6o7
Cyfeiriad: Parc Dewi Sant, Heol Ffynnon Jôb, Caerfyrddin, SA31 3HB

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/cyfadrannau:
Gyda chyfleusterau o’r radd flaenaf mewn wyth o Golegau ar draws dau gampws, mae Colegau Academaidd Prifysgol Abertawe wedi’u lleoli ar hyd arfordir ysblennydd de-orllewin Cymru.
Mae Cyfadran y Dyniaethau a'r Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol yn cwmpasu'r Celfyddydau a'r Dyniaethau, y Gyfraith a Rheolaeth.
Mae'r Gyfadran Meddygaeth, Iechyd a Gwyddor Bywyd yn cynnig cyrsiau mewn Meddygaeth, Seicoleg ac Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol.
Bydd y Gyfadran Gwyddoniaeth a Pheirianneg yn ganolfan ragoriaeth a gydnabyddir yn rhyngwladol ar gyfer ymchwil ac addysgu.
Rydym yn darparu llwybrau israddedig ac ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, sydd yn y 30 uchaf yn y DU yn y Times a Sunday Times Good University Guide 2019.
Ewch i'n tudalennau Ymchwil am wybodaeth.
Ewch i dudalennau Pam Astudio'n Abertawe
Cofrestrwch heddiw.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/ymgysylltiad-byd-eang:
Ar ran Prifysgol Abertawe, ni datblygu, tyfu, darparu a goruchwylio partneriaethau academaidd cynaliadwy o ansawdd, trwy ddarparu gwasanaeth cymorth proffesiynol, dibynadwy ac effeithiol.
Rydym wedi sefydlu cysylltiadau â sefydliadau allanol parchus, prifysgolion a sefydliadau yn lleol yng Nghymru, y DU, Ewrop a Thramor.
Rydym yn dod â sefydliadau o bob cwr o'r byd ynghyd i greu a datblygu rhaglenni rhyngwladol arloesol, cydweithrediadau a phartneriaethau strategol gyda phrifysgolion o safon fyd-eang.
Mae'r partneriaethau rhyngwladol yn cynnwys y rhai â Grenoble Alpes , Paris Sorbonne, Prifysgol Cape Town, Prifysgol Aarhus, Prifysgol Technoleg Auckland a Sefydliad Ymchwil Fethodistaidd Houston , i enwi ond ychydig.
Mae'r partneriaethau byd-eang hyn ar gyfer addysg yn cyfrannu at ddatblygiad strategol, ymchwil addysgol, cyd-gyhoeddiadau rhyngwladol, symudedd a chyfleoedd i wella cyflogaeth i fyfyrwyr.
Amlygwyd Partneriaeth Strategol Sefydliadol Abertawe gyda Phrifysgol Grenoble Alpes, a gynhelir ar sail sefydliadol sy'n cynnwys y rhan fwyaf o'r meysydd pwnc yn y Brifysgol, fel enghraifft o Arfer Gorau lle mae cydweithredu ymchwil, graddau ar y cyd, cyfnewid staff a myfyrwyr a'r rhannu cyfleusterau.
Mae’r graddau arloesol yn cynnwys PhD ar y Cyd, graddau Meistr a Threfniadau Dilysu mawreddog Erasmus Mundus, lle gall myfyrwyr gymhwyso ar gyfer graddau Prifysgol Abertawe.
Mae dau fodel cydweithredu diddorol yn cynnwys trefniant ‘flying faculty’ gyda Phrifysgolion Tsieineaidd a Gradd Ddeuol gyda Phrifysgol Trent, Canada.
Mae'r portffolio o raddau a gynigir trwy waith partneriaeth yn cynnwys graddau baglor yn y gwaith a ddarperir gan golegau addysg bellach yng Nghymru.
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn gweithio gyda Phrifysgol Abertawe, cysylltwch â ni trwy e-bost neu ffoniwch ni ar +44 1792 295604.
Rydyn ni yma i'ch helpu chi.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cynaliadwyedd:
Rydym yn safle 21 yng Nghynghrair Prifysgolion People and Planet, ar hyn o bryd rydym yn safle 21 o 149 o brifysgolion.
Mae ein Strategaeth Cynaliadwyedd ac Argyfwng Hinsawdd (2021-2025) sy’n cydweddu â Gweledigaeth Strategol a Phwrpas y Brifysgol - yn nodi sut rydym yn gweithredu ein Polisi Cynaliadwyedd , ac yn ein hymrwymo i gamau gweithredu ar draws pedair thema allweddol: Yr Argyfwng Hinsawdd , Ein Hamgylchedd Naturiol, Ein Hamgylchedd Gwaith ac Ein Teithio.
Rydym hefyd yn cyfrannu at nodau datblygu cynaliadwy allweddol eraill: Lles ac Iechyd Dynol , Llesiant Cenedlaethau'r Dyfodol a Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy'r Cenhedloedd Unedig gweithio ar y cyd â'n cymuned ymchwil i sicrhau dyfodol gwell a mwy cynaliadwy i bawb.
Gweler ein Proffiliau Ymchwil Cynaliadwyedd
Poriwch y adrannau isod i ddarganfod sut y gallwch fod yn rhan o'n cymuned sy’n ymwybodol o’r hinsawdd:
O lanhau traethau a garddio cynaliadwy, i grefftio blychau adar a gwneud ffrindiau, mae digon i chi ei wneud a chymryd rhan ynddo ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Porwch ein digwyddiadau drosodd ar Eventbrite.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/cysylltu-a-ni:
Ffôn.
+44 (0)1792 205678
Minicom +44 (0)1792 513100
Croesewir galwadau yn y Gymraeg neu'n Saesneg We welcome calls in Welsh or English
Cyflwyno ymholiad Israddedig
Cyflwyno ymholiad Ôl-raddedig
Derbyn myfyrwyr rhyngwladol
Prifysgol Abertawe Parc Singleton Abertawe SA2 8PP Cymru, y DU
Prifysgol Abertawe Campws y Bae Ffordd Fabian Burrows Crymlyn Abertawe SA1 8EN Cymru, y DU
Cyfarwyddiaeth Partneriaethau Academaidd Llawr Cyntaf, Ystafelloedd 146-155 Adeilad Talbot Prifysgol Abertawe Campws Parc Singleton Abertawe SA2 8PP
Rhif Ffôn : +44 (0)1792 295604
Ebostiwch y tîm Partneriaethau Academaidd
Oriau Swyddfa : 9.00-17.00 Llun-Gwener
Mae'r Gwasanaethau Academaidd yn gyfrifol am weinyddiaeth academaidd ar gyfer rhaglenni a addysgir ac ymchwil ôl-raddedig; cofnodion a systemau academaidd; cyllid myfyrwyr; darpariaeth gydweithredol; disgyblaeth; arholiadau; graddio; rheoliadau ac ansawdd, yn ogystal ag Uned Cyfieithu Cymraeg y Brifysgol.
Cysylltwch â ni:
Ffon: +44 (0) 1792 606000 - Croesewir galwadau yn Gymraeg a Saesneg / We welcome calls in Welsh or English
E-bost Gwasanaethau Academaidd
Mae Gwasanaethau Academaidd ar agor o ddydd Llun i ddydd Gwener, 8.30am i 5.00pm, heb gynnwys gwyliau cyhoeddus.
Cysylltu â'r Llyfrgell:
Ffôn: +44 (0)1792 606400
E-bostiwch Dîm Llyfrgell MyUni
Lleoliadau a manylion cyswllt Llyfrgelloedd penodol
Mae’r Adran Ystadau a Gwasanaethau Campws yn gyfrifol am reoli ystâd ffisegol Prifysgol Abertawe a’i chyfleusterau, yn ogystal â darparu ystod o wasanaethau hanfodol gan gynnwys arlwyo, glanhau, diogelwch a theithio i’r gymuned Brifysgol.
Cysylltwch ag Ystadau drwy e-bostio
Neu drwy ffonio:
Rhif ffôn Campws y Bae: +44 (0) 1792 606 014
Rhif ffôn Campws Parc Singleton: +44 (0) 1792 295 405
Ar gyfer cyfleoedd am swyddi ewch i http://www.swansea.ac.uk/cy/personel/swyddi/
Ar gyfer ymholiadau cyffredinol yn ymwneud â’n swyddi e-bostiwch: swyddi@abertawe.ac.uk
Adnoddau Dynol
5ed Llawr Twr Faraday Campws Singleton Abertawe SA2 8PP
Ffôn: +44 (0)1792 295138
Mae'r Tîm Gwasanaeth Cwsmer yn darparu cymorth gyda, ac yn uwch gyfeirio, pob ymholiad TG a SEA (cyflogadwyedd).
Ffôn: +44 (0) 1792 295050
Ebost: wasg@abertawe.ac.uk
Am ymholiadau brys y tu allan i oriau swyddfa arferol, ffoniwch +44 (0) 7894 251874 neu e-bostiwch y tîm
Os nad ydych yn aelod o’r wasg, cysylltwch â switsfwrdd y Brifysgol: +44 (0) 1792 205678 (gwasgwch 1 i siarad yn Gymraeg)
Cysylltu â swyddfa'r Is-ganghellor drwy e-bost

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/bod-yn-actif:
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydyn ni'n gofalu am iechyd a lles ein cymuned, felly rydyn ni'n cynnig Bod yn ACTIF, rhaglen gweithgarwch corfforol i helpu ein myfyrwyr a'n staff i fod yn fwy actif, i gael hwyl ac i gwrdd â phobl newydd.
Drwy Bod yn ACTIF , ein nod yw:
*Gwneud 150 munud neu fwy yr wythnos o weithgarwch corfforol cymedrol.
sesiwn
Mae Bod yn ACTIF yn cynnig rhaglen gynhwysfawr a chynhwysol o weithgareddau a digwyddiadau i fyfyrwyr a staff yng Nghampws Parc Singleton a Champws y Bae.
Ynghyd ag amserlen graidd o weithgarwch corfforol ar y campws, mae'r rhaglen hefyd yn cynnig sesiynau rhagflas, sesiynau sydyn, heriau a sesiynau hyfforddedig, gan gwmpasu amrywiaeth eang o weithgareddau o gerdded a loncian i bêl-foli, boules neu fadminton, ynghyd â chyfleoedd i adael y safle a gwneud y gorau o awyr iach Cymru.
Bydd angen i chi gofrestru â Bod yn ACTIF cyn y gallwch drefnu sesiwn.
Gall myfyrwyr a staff Prifysgol Abertawe gofrestru Am Ddim , a dim ond ychydig funudau y bydd yn eu cymryd i gwblhau'r ffurflen gofrestru ar-lein:
Mae Bod yn ACTIF yn cynnig amserlen wythnosol o sesiynau gweithgareddau hwyl a fforddiadwy i'ch helpu i ddechrau symud mwy ar y campws.
Bydd yr amserlen yn amrywio gan ddibynnu ar y galw a'r tymhorau a bydd yn cynnwys gweithgareddau i'ch helpu i gymryd rhan a'ch helpu i gwrdd â phobl newydd.
Mae'r rhaglen Bod yn ACTIF yn unigryw i fyfyrwyr a staff Prifysgol Abertawe, ac mae sesiynau naill ai'n cael eu cyflwyno gan un o'r tîm Bod yn ACTIF neu hyfforddwr allanol neu ddarparwr gweithgareddau (gan ddibynnu ar y gweithgaredd).
Mae ein Hamserlen Graidd ar gael fel a ganlyn ar gyfer 2024-25:
Sylwer:
Prisiau Sesiynau
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn cwblhau'r cofrestriad Bod yn ACTIF cyn mynd i'n tudalen digwyddiadau i gadw lle mewn sesiwn.
Sesiynau Untro a Rhagflas
Mae Bod yn ACTIF yn darparu amrywiaeth o sesiynau untro a rhagflas lle gallwch roi cynnig ar rywbeth newydd.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda chyfadrannau i gynnig amrywiaeth o sesiynau untro, felly cadwch lygad amdanom ni.
Nid oes angen cadw lle i ymuno â'n sesiynau untro, dim ond cymryd rhan.
Digwyddiadau a Gwyliau
Mae Bod yn ACTIF yn cynnal digwyddiadau rheolaidd drwy gydol y flwyddyn, o hwyl Wythnos y Glas i Ddiwrnod Mabolgampau Hen Ffasiwn, Gwyliau Traeth, gwyliau criced a rownderi.
Os ydych chi am i ni gynnal digwyddiad neu ŵyl ar gyfer eich cymdeithas,  grŵp o ffrindiau neu staff neu ddigwyddiad hwyl yn y gyfadran, cysylltwch â ni (ewch i'r adran Cysylltu â Ni).
Cadwch lygad ar ein tudalen Instagram i gael yr wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am ddigwyddiadau.
Mae Bod yn ACTIF yn cynnig cyfle i chi ddysgu sgiliau newydd neu ddatblygu hen sgiliau drwy raglen o sesiynau hyfforddi:
Mae bod yn actif yn yr awyr agored yn wych i'ch meddwl, eich corff a'ch enaid.
Nod ein rhaglen Bod yn ACTIF yw manteisio ar ein hamgylchedd naturiol anhygoel o amgylch Abertawe, Penrhyn Gŵyr ac yn ehangach yn ne Cymru drwy ddefnyddio ein traethau, ein llwybrau arfordirol, ein parciau gwledig a chenedlaethol, ein coetiroedd, ein cronfeydd dŵr a’n mynyddoedd.
Gan weithio gyda'n clybiau/cymdeithasau a darparwyr gweithgareddau awyr agored lleol, mae Bod yn ACTIF yn cynnig amrywiaeth o sesiynau awyr agored drwy gydol y flwyddyn gan gynnwys:
Yn 2023-24, gwnaethom gynnal teithiau cerdded i fyny Pen-y-Fan (mynydd uchaf de Cymru), beicio mynydd a chaiacio ym Mharc Gwledig Margam, syrffio ar draeth Caswell, teithiau cerdded yn ardal y Sgydau, Parc Gwledig Pen-bre, Cronfa Ddŵr Lliw a llawer o deithiau cerdded o amgylch Penrhyn Gŵyr.
Yn 2024-25, byddwn yn cynnal y rhain i gyd eto a mwy.
Ychwanegiad newydd fydd rhedeg ein Her 3 Chopa Cymru gyntaf.
Bob gwanwyn, rydym yn recriwtio myfyrwyr brwdfrydig, ymroddedig a llawn cymhelliant i ddod yn rhan o'n Tîm Actifyddion Bod yn ACTIF .
Mae ein Hactifyddion yn allweddol i lwyddiant yr hyn y mae Bod yn ACTIF yn ei ddarparu.
Gall rolau actifyddion fod yn generig neu'n benodol i chwaraeon/weithgaredd e.e.
pêl-foli, rhedeg, pêl-droed, cerdded, a badminton.
Wrth i'r rhaglen Bod yn ACTIF dyfu, byddwn yn ehangu'r gweithgareddau a gynigiwn.
Disgwylir i Actifyddion ddarparu rhwng 2 a 4 awr o weithgareddau yr wythnos (yn ystod y tymor yn bennaf) a byddant yn cynnal gweithgareddau wythnosol wedi'u hamserlennu, gan helpu i recriwtio cyfranogwyr newydd drwy hyrwyddo'r sesiynau Bod yn ACTIF a helpu i gyflwyno digwyddiadau hyrwyddo.
Mae ein Hactifyddion hefyd yn chwarae rhan hanfodol wrth helpu i gynnal ein tudalen Instagram; gan greu cynnwys a rhannu riliau a straeon i hyrwyddo ac arddangos Bod yn ACTIF.
I ymuno â'n tîm o Actifyddion, mae'n rhaid i chi:
Pam cymryd rhan:
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â ni drwy e-bostio getactive@abertawe.ac.uk neu lenwi ein ffurflen mynegi diddordeb.
Cysylltwch â Thîm Bod yn ACTIF: getactive@swansea.ac.uk .
I gael yr wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am yr holl ddiweddariadau a digwyddiadau, dilynwch ni ar Instagram.
Rydym am i'r rhaglen Bod yn ACTIF gael ei llunio gennych chi.
Bydd y rhaglen yn datblygu yn seiliedig ar eich anghenion a'ch disgwyliadau, wrth i ni deilwra ein harlwy yn unol â'ch adborth.
P'un a ydych am ymuno â chlwb ond yn teimlo braidd yn ansicr, am gymryd camau bach tuag at fod yn fwy actif yn gorfforol a gwella eich iechyd a'ch llesiant, neu dim ond am fod yn yr awyr agored a gwella eich bywyd cymdeithasol, beth am ddefnyddio ein ffurflen adborth ar-lein i ddweud wrthym beth rydych yn chwilio amdano?
Ydych chi'n Barod i Fod yn ACTIF?
Os ydych chi am gymryd camau tuag at fod yn fwy actif, gallwch weld ein rhaglen lawn ar wefan Undeb y Myfyrwyr .
Dim ond ychydig funudau y bydd y ffurflen ar-lein yn eu cymryd i'w chwblhau, a gellir cofrestru Am Ddim .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/chwaraeon/cynghreiriau-cymdeithasol:
Mae gennym ystod o gynghreiriau ar gael yn wythnosol, yn ogystal â thwrnameintiau, gwyliau a digwyddiadau hwyliog a chystadleuol sy’n cael eu cynnal drwy gydol y flwyddyn.
Mae ein cynghreiriau ar agor i bobl o bob lefel gallu ac yn cynnig cyfle i fyfyrwyr a staff fwynhau cystadleuaeth hwyliog, fforddiadwy a chyfeillgar, naill ai ar gampws y Brifysgol neu yn agos ato.
Mae ein cynghreiriau cymdeithasol yn ffordd wych o gwrdd â ffrindiau newydd a phresennol, gyda’r opsiwn i ymuno fel unigolyn neu fel grŵp.
Archwiliwch ein cynghreiriau cymdeithasol:
Mae ein Cynghreiriau Cymdeithasol yn cynnig amserlen wythnosol ar gyfer cystadlaethau cymdeithasol sy'n hwyl ac yn gyfeillgar.
Edrychwch ar ein hamserlen isod ar gyfer yr holl sesiynau Cynghreiriau Cymdeithasol:
Dydd Llun
Pêl-droed 5 pob ochr i fenywod - 19:00-22:00 (MUGAS SBSP y Bae)
Dydd Mawrth
Hoci i bawb - 19:00-20:30 (Astros SBSP Singleton) Pêl-droed 5 pob ochr i bawb - 19:00-22:00 (MUGAS SBSP y Bae) Badminton i bawb - 19:00-22:00 (Canolfan Chwaraeon SBSP y Bae)
Dydd Mercher
Pêl-droed 11 pob ochr i ddynion - 13:00-16:00 (Fairwood) Pêl-droed 5 pob ochr i ddynion - 14:00-17:00 (MUGAS SBSP y Bae)
Dydd Iau
Pêl-droed 5 pob ochr i ddynion - 19:00-22:00 (MUGAS SBSP y Bae)
Dydd Gwener
Pêl-fasged i ddynion - 20:00-22:00 (Canolfan Chwaraeon SBSP y Bae)
Dydd Sadwrn
Pêl-foli - 10:00-12:00 (Canolfan Chwaraeon SBSP Singleton)
Dydd Sul
Pêl-rwyd i bawb - 12:00-16:00 (Canolfan Chwaraeon SBSP Singleton) Pêl-droed 5 pob ochr i bawb - 12:00-15:00 (MUGAS SBSP y Bae) Pêl-droed 11 pob ochr i ddynion - Tua Chwefror 2024 (Maes 3G SBSP Singleton)
*SBSP - Parc Chwaraeon Bae Abertawe
Os na allwch chwarae, gallwch gymryd rhan yn ein rhaglenni ac ychwanegu at eich CV drwy weinyddu neu fod yn rhan o reoli digwyddiadau.
Cysylltwch â ni os oes gennych ddiddordeb.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/chwaraeon/clybiau-chwaraeon:
Gyda mwy na 50 o glybiau chwaraeon i ddewis ohonynt a mwy na 5,000 o aelodau gweithgar mewn clybiau chwaraeon, rydym ni ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe yn cynnig rhywbeth at ddant pawb.
P'un a ydych am roi cynnig ar rygbi neu aikido, dodgeball, hoci neu tae kwon do, byddwch chi'n siŵr o ganfod eich tîm delfrydol yn Abertawe.
P'un a ydych ar lefel dechreuwr, canolraddol neu elît, rydyn ni'n cynnig cyfleoedd clybiau chwaraeon i bawb.
Gyda sesiynau hyfforddi rheolaidd, cynghreiriau lleol, cystadlaethau cenedlaethol ac, wrth gwrs, ambell noson gymdeithasol, mae bywyd yn aelod o glwb chwaraeon ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe byth yn ddiflas.
Ac er ein bod yn hoff o gael hwyl, rydyn ni hefyd yn uchelgeisiol.
Rydyn ni'n anelu at fod ar frig tabl goreuon BUCS, felly dewch i ymuno â'n tîm a bod yn rhan o'r daith.
Mae popeth y mae angen i chi ei wybod ynghylch ymuno ag un o'n llu o glybiau, gan gynnwys gwybodaeth am ffi aelodaeth a'r rhestr lawn o'r hyn sydd ar gael, i'w weld ar Wefan Undeb y Myfyrwyr .
P’un a ydych yn fyfyriwr athletwr, yn gefnogwr Chwaraeon Prifysgol Abertawe, neu os ydych yn chwilio am wisg hamdden o ansawdd uchel, gallwch brynu’r kit swyddogol o siop Surridge Sport drwy gydol y flwyddyn a gwisgo’r kit gwyrdd a gwyn gyda balchder.
O sanau a hetiau, i gotiau cynnes a chnuoedd, mae digonedd i bawb.
Mae angen aelodaeth er mwyn cymryd rhan mewn unrhyw un o’n clybiau chwaraeon.
Cewch eich annog i brynu’r aelodaeth cyn y gallwch ymuno â chlwb.
Mae’n ffi flynyddol untro o £35 sy’n cynnwys eich yswiriant a’r trefniadau logistaidd ar gyfer BUCS a chystadlaethau.
Nid yw'n cynnwys aelodaeth o'r gampfa.
Ewch i wefan Undeb y Myfyrwyr i gael popeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod.
Ydynt, mae ein clybiau yn croesawu pawb, gan gynnwys dechreuwyr.
Bydd llawer o'n clybiau yn cynnal sesiwn flasu neu dreialu am ddim er mwyn i chi roi cynnig arni.
Wedyn, gall y prisiau i ymuno â chlwb amrywio o £20 i £80, yn dibynnu ar y gamp.
Fel arfer, bydd hyn yn cwmpasu'r holl gostau hyfforddi a chystadlu ar gyfer y flwyddyn.
Efallai y bydd ffioedd ychwanegol ar gyfer gwisg neu gyfarpar.
Mae ein holl glybiau yn cynnwys opsiwn i gystadlu neu i hamddena, yn dibynnu ar faint o amser rydych chi am ei roi.
Mae ein clybiau'n hyfforddi o leiaf unwaith yr wythnos, ac mae'r timau sy'n perfformio orau yn hyfforddi ddwy neu dair gwaith yr wythnos.
Cynhelir y rhan fwyaf o'r cystadlaethau ar brynhawn dydd Mercher neu ar benwythnosau.
Parc Chwaraeon Bae Abertawe (Lôn Sgeti) yw ein prif leoliad ar gyfer chwaraeon, ac mae'r rhan fwyaf o'r gweithgareddau yn digwydd yno.
Fodd bynnag, mae nifer o'n clybiau chwaraeon yn defnyddio cyfleusterau Campws y Bae ar gyfer sesiynau hyfforddi wythnosol.
Mae gweithgareddau'r clybiau yn rhedeg o fis Medi i fis Mai/Mehefin.
Felly hyd yn oed os na fyddwch chi'n ymuno â chlwb yn y semester cyntaf, gallwch gymryd rhan ar ôl y Nadolig o hyd.
Rydyn ni'n cynnal Ffair y Glas ym mis Ionawr ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n newydd i'r brifysgol neu sydd am ymuno â chlwb.
Oes, mae llawer o gyfleoedd hyd yn oed os nad ydych chi am gymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon eich hun.
Gall y rhain gynnwys hyfforddi, dyfarnu, datblygu chwaraeon a chyfleoedd i wirfoddoli, rheoli timau a chymorth cyntaf.
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn ffyrdd eraill o gymryd rhan e-bostiwch ein Swyddog Datblygu Chwaraeon Myfyrwyr .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/chwaraeon/perfformiad-ac-ysgoloriaethau:
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydym yn cynnig rhaglenni perfformiad rygbi i ddynion a nofio.
Rydym yn cyflogi tîm o weithwyr proffesiynol profiadol a hynod gymwysedig i reoli a chyflwyno ein rhaglenni perfformiad, sy'n canolbwyntio ar hyfforddiant a chymorth dwys er mwyn helpu ein hathletwyr gorau i wella eu perfformiad yn barhaus a gwireddu eu llawn botensial.
Rydym yn meithrin ac yn datblygu ein hathletwyr mwyaf talentog drwy becynnau ysgoloriaeth cynhwysfawr wedi'u cynllunio i helpu ein hysgolorion chwaraeon i ragori'n academaidd, yn ogystal ag yn y chwaraeon a ddewiswyd ganddynt.
Cliciwch ar y lluniau isod i ddysgu mwy am ein pecynnau cymorth a'n chwaraeon perfformiad cyfredol.
Edrychwch ar ein Chwaraeon Perfformiad Uchel:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/chwaraeon/nawdd-cyfleusterau:
P’un a ydych yn fusnes lleol neu’n gorfforaeth amlwladol, mae gennym ystod eang o gyfleoedd partneriaeth a nawdd i weddu i’ch anghenion a’ch amcanion.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth am ein cyfleoedd noddi, gofynnwch am ein llyfryn neu cysylltwch â commercialservices@swansea.ac.uk.
P'un a yw'n cynyddu ymwybyddiaeth brand, ymgysylltu â'r gymuned leol neu yrru refeniw, gallwch wella eich amcanion busnes drwy noddi cyfleusterau ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o opsiynau ar gael sy'n cynnwys byrddau hysbysebu digidol a sefydlog, cymryd drosodd brand cyfleuster, prif noddwr Chwaraeon Abertawe a mwy.
Byddwn yn gweithio gyda'ch gofynion unigol i ddod o hyd i'r cynnyrch neu'r pecynnau mwyaf addas a fydd yn sicrhau'r effaith fwyaf posibl i'ch cynulleidfa arfaethedig.
Ewch ar daith rithwir o amgylch y cyfleusterau yma.
Byrddau Hysbysebu
Cefnogwch eich hoff dîm a sicrhewch fod eich brand yn rhan amlwg o'r cyffro drwy fyrddau hysbysebu sydd ar gael ym mhob un o'n cyfleusterau allanol, gan gynnwys y Trac Athletau, y Caeau Rygbi a'r Caeau Hoci.
Mae'r pecyn hwn yn cynnwys y canlynol:
Cyfle i'ch Brand Feddiannu Cyfleuster yn Llwyr
Sicrhewch fod eich brand yn sefyll allan ac yn cyrraedd ein cefnogwyr amrywiol a brwdfrydig yn ogystal â'r gymuned leol drwy fanteisio ar gyfle i'ch brand feddiannu un o'n cyfleusterau chwaraeon allweddol yn llwyr.
Prif Noddwr Chwaraeon Abertawe
Cefnogwch Chwaraeon ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe a dewch yn Brif Noddwr brand Chwaraeon Abertawe gyda chyfleoedd i gael sylw ar draws holl asedau Chwaraeon Abertawe.
Mae grŵp dethol o chwaraeon yn rhan o raglen chwaraeon perfformiad uchel y Brifysgol.
Mae gan bob un o'r chwaraeon perfformiad uchel dîm penodol sy'n gweithio'n agos â'r hyfforddwyr i roi pob cyfle i'r athletwyr berfformio ar y lefel uchaf.
Mae ein chwaraeon perfformiad uchel hefyd yn cael: gwasanaeth gwyddor chwaraeon, rheoli ffordd o fyw i athletwyr, ffisiotherapi a chymorth cryfder a chyflyru.
Rhagor o wybodaeth am ein chwaraeon perfformiad uchel cyfredol .
Mae gan Chwaraeon Abertawe amrywiaeth enfawr o glybiau chwaraeon cystadleuol ac anghystadleuol.
Mae myfyrwyr wrth wraidd popeth a wnawn yn Chwaraeon Abertawe.
Drwy ein dewis enfawr o glybiau a chyfleoedd eraill, rydym yn anelu at greu awyrgylch sy'n ei gwneud hi'n hawdd i fyfyrwyr gymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon.
Mae ein timau yn cystadlu mewn cystadlaethau BUCS (Chwaraeon Prifysgolion a Cholegau Prydain), cystadlaethau lleol, cystadlaethau ar gyfer chwaraeon penodol neu'n chwarae mewn cynghreiriau mewnfurol anghystadleuol.
Ewch i dudalennau gwefan yr undeb myfyrwyr i gael gwybodaeth am ein amrywiaeth helaeth o glybiau chwaraeon .
Mae Farsiti Cymru, sef un o'r digwyddiadau amlchwaraeon mwyaf i fyfyrwyr yn y DU, yn cynnig cyfleoedd noddi cyffrous i'ch busnes a fydd yn gwarantu sylw i'ch brand.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/chwaraeon/newyddion-chwaraeon:
I gael eich holl newyddion a diweddariadau chwaraeon o Brifysgol Abertawe, yn ogystal â chyngor ac arweiniad ar fod yn actif, cliciwch ar y lluniau isod:
19 Mehefin 2025
8 Mawrth 2025
27 Chwefror 2025
18 Chwefror 2025
14 Chwefror 2025
3 Chwefror 2025
21 Ionawr 2025
19 Rhagfyr 2024
25 Tachwedd 2024
7 Tachwedd 2024
6 Tachwedd 2024
21 Hydref 2024
9 Hydref 2024
19 Medi 2024
30 Awst 2024
29 Awst 2024
29 Gorffennaf 2024
25 Gorffennaf 2024
2 Gorffennaf 2024
1 Gorffennaf 2024
20 Mehefin 2024
13 Mehefin 2024
9 Mai 2024
20 Mawrth 2024
13 Mawrth 2024
8 Mawrth 2024
29 Chwefror 2024
21 Chwefror 2024
8 Chwefror 2024
11 Ionawr 2024
13 Rhagfyr 2023
28 Tachwedd 2023
8 Tachwedd 2023
2 Tachwedd 2023
12 Medi 2023
28 Mehefin 2023
19 Mai 2023
19 Ebrill 2023
27 Chwefror 2023
18 Chwefror 2023
8 Chwefror 2023
17 Ionawr 2023
9 Medi 2022
6 Medi 2022

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/amdanom-ni/gwasanaethau-arlwyo:
Croeso i adran arlwyo Prifysgol Abertawe.
Gallwch chi ddysgu rhagor am yr holl wasanaethau a mannau gwerthu bwyd rydym yn eu darparu yn y Brifysgol.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/bywyd-y-campws/y-neuadd-fawr:
Wedi’i dylunio gan y pensaer byd enwog Dr Demetri Porphyrios, y Neuadd Fawr yw’r adeilad blaenllaw wrth galon Campws Gwyddoniaeth ac Arloesedd y Bae Prifysgol Abertawe.
Gan gynnwys awditoriwm â 700 o seddi sy’n cynnig acwsteg o safon fyd-eang a chyfleusterau clywedol o’r radd flaenaf mae’r Neuadd Fawr yn darparu lleoliad anhygoel lle y gall y campws a’r gymuned ehangach fwynhau perfformiadau diwylliannol, digwyddiadau, arddangosfeydd a mwy.
Y Neuadd Fawr, Prifysgol Abertawe, Ffordd Fabian, Crymlyn Burrows, SA1 8EN
Rhif ffôn y Caffi Bar: 01792 513170
Rhif ffôn y Swyddfa Docynnau: 01792 604900 /604999

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/sefydliad-diwylliannol/creu-taliesin:
Mae Creu Taliesin, ar lawr gwaelod adeilad Taliesin, yn bodoli i hyrwyddo celf, diwylliant, creadigrwydd ac arloesi.
Mae Creu Taliesin yn cynnwys dwy ardal y mae modd archebu lle ynddynt, Ystafell y Mall a'r Stiwdio.
Mae Creu Taliesin hefyd yn cynnwys parth ar gyfer astudio cyffredinol, ardal er mwyn i fyfyrwyr a staff gymdeithasu ac ymlacio, taflunwyr hawdd eu defnyddio, ardal werdd ar gyfer ffilmio, ac ardaloedd ar gyfer arddangosiadau ac arddangosfeydd dros dro.
Mae Creu Taliesin yn cynnal dros 60 o ddigwyddiadau myfyrwyr a staff bob mis, sy'n golygu ei bod yn esblygu'n barhaus i weddu pawb sy'n ei defnyddio.
Dros y flwyddyn ddiwethaf rydym wedi cefnogi digwyddiadau mor amrywiol â gweithdy gwneud barcutiaid ar gyfer Pages of the Sea Danny Boyle; gweithdy pypedau gyda Smoking Apples Theatre; rhaglen o ddigwyddiadau ar gyfer dathliadau Frankenstein yn 200 oed; a Sesiynau Holi ac Ateb gydag awduron rhestr fer Gwobr Dylan Thomas 2018.
Rydym hefyd wedi cynnal arddangosiad ffotograffiaeth Ymchwil fel Celf 2018, dangosiadau ffilmiau byr ar gyfer Gŵyl Ffilmiau Rhyngwladol Cymru, Marchnadoedd Gwneuthurwyr rheolaidd, a dosbarthiadau dawns wythnosol yn cynnwys Dawnsio Bol Arddull Llwythol Americanaidd a Dawnsio Tango'r Ariannin.
Y Mall yw'r ystafell â waliau gwydr ym mlaen Creu Taliesin.
Mae digon o le i 60 o bobl yn yr ystafell sydd â charpedi ar y llawr a gellir ei hynysu o weddill y llawr gwaelod drwy gau dau ddrws llithro gwydr.
Mae nifer o fyrddau a chadeiriau yn y Mall.
Mae'n hawdd plygu'r byrddau a'u rhoi o’r neilltu os oes angen mwy o le i ddefnyddio’r llawr.
Mae mynediad i gadeiriau olwyn tua chefn yr ystafell.
Mae taflunydd wedi'i osod ar y nenfwd a cheir sgrin daflunio y gellir ei thynnu'n ôl: Does dim cyfrifiadur personol yn yr ystafell ond gellir plygio dyfais symudol (gliniadur, er enghraifft) i mewn i soced gan ddefnyddio cebl HDMI neu VGA.
Nid yw'r ceblau hyn yn cael eu cadw yn yr ystafell, ond gallwch wneud cais ymlaen llaw i'w benthyca gennym ar gyfer eich digwyddiad.
Rheolir system y taflunydd drwy ddyfais botymau gwasgu syml sydd wedi'i gosod yn agos at y sgrin daflunio (On, Off, Volume, HDMI a VGA).
Wrth i chi ddewis y botwm 'ON' ar y rheolydd, bydd y sgrin daflunio'n gostwng a bydd y taflunydd yn dechrau gweithio.
Mae dolen sain yn yr ystafell.
Mae'r Mall ar restr o leoliadau Arlwyo'r Campws a gallant gyflenwi lluniaeth yma.
Y Stiwdio yw lleoliad ar ffurf amffitheatr Creu Taliesin.
Mae ganddi lawr finyl a rhesau o feinciau, yn ogystal â nifer o gadeiriau y gellir eu symud.
Mae digon o le i 60 o bobl yn y Stiwdio a cheir mynediad i gadeiriau olwyn tua chefn yr ystafell (ger y Ganolfan Eifftaidd).
Yn wahanol i'r Mall, does dim modd ynysu'r Stiwdio o weddill Creu Taliesin.
Felly, mae'n lle agored a hyblyg, lle gall pobl ddod a mynd, ymuno yn y gweithgarwch a gadael; mae'n berffaith ar gyfer perfformiadau, gweithdai a gweithgareddau.
I wneud y lle hyd yn oed yn fwy hyblyg, mae'r Stiwdio wedi'i gwahanu o weddill Creu Taliesin gan ddwy wal y gellir eu tynnu'n ôl, â byrddau symudol.
Gellir defnyddio'r byrddau hyn i wneud wal er mwyn creu ymdeimlad mwy caeedig ar gyfer digwyddiadau, neu eu gwthio o'r neilltu i agor y lle a chynyddu maint ardal y balconi.
Mae gan y Stiwdio daflunydd wedi'i osod ar y nenfwd a sgrin daflunio y gellir ei thynnu yn ôl: Does dim cyfrifiadur personol yn yr ystafell ond gellir plygio dyfais symudol (gliniadur, er enghraifft) i mewn i soced gan ddefnyddio cebl HDMI neu VGA.
Wrth i chi ddewis y botwm 'ON' ar y rheolydd, bydd y sgrîn daflunio'n gostwng a bydd y taflunydd yn dechrau gweithio.
Mae'r Stiwdio ar restr o leoliadau Arlwyo'r Campws a gallant gyflenwi lluniaeth yma.
I drafod prosiect, gweithgaredd neu ddigwyddiad creadigol yr hoffech ei gynnal, cysylltwch â Swyddog y Rhaglen Greadigrwydd Reg Noyes r.a.noyes@abertawe.ac.uk
Gallwch archebu ystafell ar-lein drwy LibCal: https://swansea-uk.libcal.com/booking/TaliesinCreate
Creu Taliesin - Gwybodaeth Ystafell

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/bywyd-y-campws/ein-tiroedd:
Mae Campws Parc Singleton yn swatio yn un o fannau gwyrdd mwyaf godidog Abertawe, Parc Singleton, gan gynnwys parcdir agored, coetir aeddfed, glaswelltir, borderi wedi'u plannu a phyllau - oll yn cefnogi ystod eang o fywyd gwyllt.
Hefyd mae Campws y Bae yn eistedd ar y traeth, drws nesaf i Safle o Ddiddordeb Gwyddonol Arbennig Twyni Crymlyn, gan roi mynediad uniongyrchol i staff, myfyrwyr ac ymwelwyr at gynefinoedd arfordirol unigryw.
Mae Campws Parc Singleton a'r Bae wedi derbyn statws Baner Werdd , sy'n cydnabod safonau uchel rheoli, cynaliadwyedd a hygyrchedd ar draws ein tiroedd.Mae gan Gampws Parc Singleton hefyd achrediad Safle Treftadaeth Werdd , sy'n dathlu ei arwyddocâd hanesyddol a'i dirwedd a reolir yn dda.
Gosodwyd carreg sylfaen Prifysgol Abertawe ar 19 Gorffennaf 1920 gan  Frenin Siôr V ac mae safle mawreddog Campws Parc Singleton yn llawn hanes a threftadaeth.
Gallwch ddarllen rhagor am hanes a threftadaeth y safle yma .
Gydag erwau o dir i’w harchwilio’n hamddenol, gan gynnwys Safle o Ddiddordeb Gwyddonol Arbennig (SoDdGA) Twyni Crymlyn ar Gampws y Bae a’n Gardd Fotaneg restredig ym Mharc Singleton, mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn cynnig amgylchedd awyr agored rhagorol y gall myfyrwyr, staff a’r gymuned eu mwynhau.
Mae tiroedd Prifysgol Abertawe ar agor i bawb.
Cyn i chi ddod i’w mwynhau, beth am ddarllen am rai o’r trysorau cudd sydd gennym yn swatio yn ein tiroedd trawiadol drwy glicio ar y lluniau isod?
Mae teras rhestredig Gradd II yr Abaty’n dyddio o oes Sarah Vivian, gwraig John Henry Vivian (1830au).
Roedd hithau’n arddwr dawnus a gellir gweld olion ei gwaith hyd at heddiw ac mae’n parhau i ddylanwadu ar y gwaith adfer mae’r Brifysgol yn ymgymryd ag ef.
Un o nodweddion amlycaf teras yr Abaty yw’r goeden fagnolia fawr.
Dros y degawdau, roedd yn draddodiad ymhlith myfyrwyr os oedd y goeden wedi dechrau blodeuo ac nid oeddech chi’n adolygu ar gyfer arholiadau’r haf, roedd problemau mawr gyda chi!
Mae’r tiroedd o amgylch yr Abaty wedi’u cysylltu mewn ffordd gynhenid â threftadaeth y Brifysgol, gan gyfrannu at fioamrywiaeth y parcdir o’u cwmpas.
Mae’r man agored syfrdanol hwn yn cynnig golygfeydd dros ddôl yr Abaty a Bae Abertawe ac mae ar agor i’r gymuned leol ymweld ag ef a’i fwynhau.
Dyluniwyd y tirlunio a’r plannu i gyd-fynd â sut byddai’r gerddi wedi edrych yn ystod oes aur yr Abaty, wrth hefyd gynnwys amgylchedd bywiog a chroesawgar i’r campws ar yr un pryd.
Cynlluniwyd y Gerddi Botaneg rhestredig i gychwyn gan y botanegydd arloesol o Brydain a Deon y Gyfadran Wyddoniaeth, yr Athro Florence Annie Mockeridge, a ymddeolodd ym 1954 cyn cwblhau’r prosiect.
Daeth Dr Herbert ‘Bertie’ Street i olrhain yr Athro Mockeridge, gan ddylunio cynllun terfynol yr ardd a goruchwylio’r broses o’i chreu.
Mae’r ardd yn cynnwys sawl nodwedd allweddol:
Yr Ymlusgdy : Cafodd yr enw hwn gan yr oedd yn wreiddiol yn gartref i grŵp bach o grwbanod a oedd yn byw ar yr ynys.
Fe’i defnyddid hefyd mewn rhaglen fridio gwiberod a ryddhawyd yn y pen draw ar Benrhyn Gŵyr.
Y Pwll Addurniadol : Mae’r pwll yn cynnwys llyswennod, crethyll ac ambell bysgodyn aur ac mae hefyd yn gartref i anifeiliaid di-asgwrn-cefn a gweision y neidr.
Yr Oracl : Gweithiodd myfyrwyr y Brifysgol gydag elusen leol Down to Earth i adeiladu’r Oracl (sef yr Amgylchedd Dysgu Cymunedol ac Ymchwil Awyr Agored) yn y gerddi.
Defnyddiodd y tîm ddeunyddiau lleol ag effaith ecolegol isel gan ddefnyddio sgiliau megis adeiladu waliau cerrig sych, ffurfio fframiau pren a chobio.
Y Ddôl : Mae’r ddôl fach yn y gerddi’n rhestredig a chaiff ei thorri unwaith y flwyddyn yn unig, gan gynyddu tirwedd fioamrywiol y Brifysgol.
Llwybr y Goedwig : Helpodd myfyrwyr y Brifysgol i adfer  llwybrau cerdded  y goedwig a oedd yn tueddu i foddi mewn llifogydd.
Bellach, maent yn arwain at y ddôl restredig.
Yn ogystal, adeiladwyd cyfres o ‘westai trychfilod’ a thomenni cynefin ganddynt ar hyd y llwybr, gan ddefnyddio deunyddiau wedi’u huwchgylchu.
Cychod Gwenyn : Ym mis Ionawr 2014, cyflwynwyd cychod gwenyn i’r Gerddi Botaneg.
Ar hyn o bryd, mae chwe chwch ar y safle y mae’r Brifysgol yn berchen arnynt ac yn gofalu amdanynt.
Manteisiwyd ar safle yr Ardd Fotaneg i elwa o’r microhinsoddau a grëwyd gan yr adeiladau a’r tir naturiol gerllaw, gan alluogi i blanhigion tyner, ecsotig ac yn aml brin iawn i gael eu tyfu.
Yn gynyddol, mae’r ardd yn cael ei defnyddio fel meithrinfa i gynyddu stoc y planhigion presennol ac ychwanegu at gasgliadau presennol, gan wella bioamrywiaeth a hwyluso dysgu a lles.
Mae myfyrwyr yn defnyddio’r ardd fel labordy byw ar gyfer prosiectau sy’n ymwneud ag astudio gwenyn, ystlumod, madfallod dŵr ac amffibiaid.
Mae ein Campws y Bae  wrth ymyl Safle o Ddiddordeb Gwyddonol Arbennig (SSSI) rydym ni’n gyfrifol am ei gynnal.
Cymerwch saib o’ch diwrnod prysur i archwilio’r cynefin naturiol a chyfoethog.
Mae llawer o ffyrdd y gallwch gymryd rhan yn ein mentrau bioamrywiaeth ar y safle.
Caiff ein tiroedd hyfryd eu rheoli gan dîm o arbenigwyr rheoli tiroedd proffesiynol sy'n ymrwymedig i'w datblygu a'u cadw, fel y gall ein cymuned amrywiol yn y Brifysgol fwynhau amgylchedd unigryw i gael seibiant o'u hastudiaethau neu eu gwaith.
Mae’r tîm yn gweithio’n agos gyda Thîm Cynaliadwyedd y Brifysgol i sicrhau y rheolir cyfrifoldebau amgylcheddol ac y caiff yr effaith ar yr amgylchedd ei lleihau.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-digidol/diwylliant-a-chelfyddydau/cerddoriaeth:
Mae gan Brifysgol Abertawe sîn gerddorol fywiog a chynyddol, gyda nifer lawn o ensembles a chorau, ysgoloriaethau offerynnol a chorawl, cyfleusterau ymarfer, a mwy.
Gan nad oes gennym adran gerdd academaidd, mae'r cyfleoedd hyn ar gael i bob myfyriwr, pa bynnag bwnc y maent yn ei astudio.
Beth bynnag yw eich diddordebau a'ch lefel o gerddoriaeth, byddwch yn cael y cyfle i ddatblygu eich cariad at gerddoriaeth ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/dyniaethau-a-gwyddoraucymdeithasol:
Mae ein Cyfadran yn gartref i gymuned groesawgar a chynhwysol sy'n dilyn ysgolheictod, ymchwil ac arloesedd sydd o fudd i gymdeithas.
Rydym yn hyrwyddo profiad myfyriwr sy'n galluogi ein myfyrwyr i ddod yn ddinasyddion byd-eang medrus, cymdeithasol ymwybodol.
Rydym yn gwneud cyfraniad sylweddol i waith cenhadaeth ddiwylliannol a dinesig y Brifysgol, ac rydym wedi ymrwymo i hyrwyddo ein hiaith a'n diwylliant Cymraeg.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/gwyddoniaeth-a-pheirianneg:
Mae’r Gyfadran Gwyddoniaeth a Pheirianneg wedi’i chydnabod yn genedlaethol ac yn fyd-eang fel canolfan ragoriaeth sy’n darparu amgylchedd addysgu arloesol a chynhwysol sy’n creu dysgwyr gydol oes wedi’u paratoi ar gyfer yr economi fyd-eang.
Trwy ein hystod o gyfleoedd astudio israddedig ac ôl-raddedig, ein nod yw galluogi myfyrwyr i ddatblygu’r potensial i ddod yn arweinw yr ac yn bencampwyr diwydiant y dyfodol , neu i feddu ar y gallu i fynd i’r afael â’r heriau a’r cyfleoedd ar gyfer g yrfa ym maes ymchwil .
Trwy ganolfannau ymchwil o safon fyd-eang a buddsoddi’n barhaus yn ein hadnoddau a’n cyfleusterau neilltuol, rydym yn darparu amgylchedd rhagorol i astudio neu gynnal ymchwil.
Mae ein themâu ymchwil trawsbynciol yn dod â thimau amlddisgyblaethol ynghyd, gan integreiddio sbectrwm eang o ddisgyblaethau peirianneg sy'n ein helpu i fynd i'r afael â heriau byd-eang.
11 Awst 2025
15 Awst 2025
14 Awst 2025
25 Gorffennaf 2025
21 Gorffennaf 2025
Eisiau siarad â ni am ein rhaglenni gradd, gweithgaredd ymchwil neu ddefnyddio ein cyfleusterau?
Dyma'r ffordd orau i gysylltu â ni:
Email: fse-reception@abertawe.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/meddygaeth-iechyd-gwyddor-bywyd:
Drwy ddysgu, ymchwil ac arloesi rhyngddisgyblaethol a rhyngbroffesiynol, fe'n dyfernir yn gyson yn un o'r darparwyr gorau yn y DU o ran addysg i weithwyr proffesiynol y gwyddorau iechyd a bywyd, a byddwn ni'n cynnal ein henw da rhyngwladol am ymchwil, addysgu ac arloesi ardderchog sy'n cyflawni gwelliannau go-iawn o ran iechyd, lles a'r economi yng Nghymru ac yn y byd.
Rydym yn gwneud gwahaniaeth i fywydau pobl ar draws y byd, gyda'n hymchwil arloesol a thrwy ein gwaith gyda'r GIG, Gwasanaethau Cymdeithasol a'r sector preifat.
Mae ein cymuned o fyfyrwyr, ymchwilwyr a phartneriaid yn defnyddio ac yn elwa o arbenigedd ein hymchwilwyr ac addysgwyr rhyngwladol, gan adeiladu ar ein heffaith ymchwil rhagorol yn y byd go iawn.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o gyrsiau meddygaeth, gofal iechyd a seicoleg, cymerwch olwg ar ein canllawiau cyflym i ddod o hyd i'r cwrs gorau i chi.
Os ydych chi am ymuno a ni, pam nad ydych chi’n ymuno a’n Diwrnod Agored Israddedig nesaf ac archwilio’r opsiynau cwrs sydd ar gael i chi.
Heb os, diwrnod agored yw’r ffordd orau i ddod i’n hadnabod ni; cael profiad o’n campws ar y traeth, cwrdd â’r tîm dysgu, a siarad â’n myfyrwyr presennol.
Mae gennym dros 25 mlynedd o brofiad o yrru ymchwil i wella iechyd, lles a chyfoeth.
Rydym yn cymryd mewnwelediadau o erchwyn y gwely i'r fainc ac yn ôl eto, gan arwain at effaith byd go iawn a chanlyniadau gwell i gleifion.
Mae safon ein hymchwil unwaith eto wedi cael ei chydnabod yn REF2021, gyda 85% o ymchwil y gyfadran yn cael ei hadnabod i arwain y ffordd yn fyd-eang neu’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol (REF2021).
Diwrnodau Agored i Ôl-raddedig

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/cyfadrannau/y-coleg:
Rydym yn darparu llwybrau israddedig ac ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, sydd yn y 30 uchaf yn y DU yn y Guardian Good University Guide 2023.
Edrychwch ar ein rhaglenni i ddarganfod mwy.
Darganfyddwch fwy
Y Coleg, Prifysgol Abertawe Campws y Bae Ffordd Fabian Abertawe SA1 8EN

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/academi-iechyd-a-llesiant:
Mae'r Academi Iechyd a Lles yn cynnig ystod o wasanaethau fforddiadwy a hyblyg i gefnogi cymuned De Orllewin Cymru.
Mae ein gwasanaethau'n cyflenwi’r rhai a ddarperir gan y GIG ac yn caniatáu i bobl wneud dewisiadau ffordd o fyw gwybodus a chadarnhaol i wella eu hiechyd a'u lles, mae'r gwasanaethau'n cynnwys: osteopathi, awdioleg, gofal profedigaeth, cardioleg a gwasanaethau sy'n ymwneud â beichiogrwydd, gan gynnwys cymorth bwydo ar y fron, hypno-geni, cefnogaeth ôl-enedigol a rhianta cadarnhaol.
Mae ymchwil yn elfen bwysig o'r Academi sy'n tynnu ar gryfder ymchwil y Coleg, gan ddarparu cyfleoedd addysgu a dysgu o'r radd flaenaf sydd â'r nod o uchafu buddion i'r gymuned ehangach .
01792 518600 Ebost
Cyfraniad rhagorol i'r gymuned leol
Cyfarfod â thîm yr Academi Iechyd a Lles
Y newyddion diweddaraf o'r academi iechyd a lles
Academi Iechyd a Lles Cefndir

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/clirio/lleoedd-clirio:
Gweld ein lleoedd clirio isod ac yna dechreuwch eich cais heddiw .
Ydych chi'n fyfyriwr rhyngwladol a'r UE?
Ewch i'n Lleoedd Clirio ar gyfer myfyrwyr rhyngwladol a'r UE .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/derbyn-myfyrwyr/gofynnwch-innin-fyw:
Sgwrsiwch gyda ni yn fyw
Llenwch y ffurflen ymholiad

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/clirio/beth-yw-clirio:
Clirio yw cam olaf y broses recriwtio flynyddol i sefydliadau addysg uwch, ac mae'n gyfle i fyfyrwyr sicrhau lle yn y brifysgol, pa un a ydynt heb wneud cais, heb lwyddo yn eu cais neu wedi gwrthod eu cynigion.
Mae'n addas hefyd i'r rhai sydd wedi cael cynnig, ond sydd wedi newid eu meddwl am eu dewis gwrs neu brifysgol, efallai am eu bod wedi gwneud yn well na'r disgwyl.
Mae'n bwysig hefyd i fyfyrwyr sy'n methu ennill y graddau gofynnol i fynd i'w dewis cadarn neu yswiriant, am fod hyn yn eu galluogi i ddechrau eu taith brifysgol yn yr un flwyddyn, er gwaethaf hynny.
Mae nifer o resymau pam y gallwch chi ddewis mynd trwy glirio:
Beth bynnag yw'r rheswm, gall Clirio fod yn gyfle i sicrhau lle prifysgol sy'n hollol iawn i chi!
Gallwch wirio'ch cyfrif UCAS i weld a ydych chi'n gymwys i Glirio.
Ni fydd UCAS yn anfon unrhyw beth yn y post i ddweud wrthych a ydych chi'n gymwys, felly mae'n bwysig eich bod chi'n gwirio ar-lein.
Os ydych chi'n gymwys ar gyfer Clirio bydd botwm 'Add Clearing choice' yn ymddangos ar eich sgrin 'Choices' yn UCAS, a gallwch ei ddefnyddio i dderbyn lle ar gwrs a gynigiwyd i chi trwy Glirio.
Byddwch yn gymwys ar gyfer Clirio os:
Dilynwch y camau hyn a byddwch yn barod ar gyfer Clirio 2025.
Cyn gwneud galwad ffôn ar gyfer Clirio, gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn barod oherwydd efallai y gofynnir ichi am eich gwaith ysgol neu'ch profiad.
Bydd rhai cynghorwyr yn gwneud penderfyniad ar sail eich graddau tra bydd eraill yn gofyn cwestiynau i asesu'ch diddordeb yn y cwrs o'ch dewis.
Efallai y byddai'n ddefnyddiol paratoi rhai nodiadau ar pam rydych chi am ymuno â'r brifysgol a beth sydd o ddiddordeb i chi yn y cwrs rydych chi'n gwneud cais amdano.
Gall hyn ddibynnu ar bob sefydliad ond mae Clirio yn Abertawe yn gallu gorffen mor hwyr a mis Hydref os oes dal lle ar y cyrsiau.
Os na gawsoch chi na derbyn unrhyw gynigion, cysylltwch â'ch prifysgol o ddewis gan fod rhai yn cymryd ymgeiswyr hwyr.
Os ydych chi'n ansicr cysylltwch â Thîm Derbyn Prifysgol Abertawe i drafod eich opsiynau.
Cymerwch gip ar ein Canllaw Cyllid Clirio i gael gwybodaeth ar sut i sicrhau Cyllid Myfyrwyr.
Gall myfyrwyr sy'n gwneud cais yn ystod Clirio wneud cais am lety'r Brifysgol unwaith y byddant wedi cwblhau eu cais cwrs, gan ddefnyddio eu rhif adnabod UCAS.
Os nad oes rhif adnabod UCAS gan y myfyriwr, gallant wneud cais unwaith y byddant wedi derbyn eu rhif myfyriwr gan y Brifysgol (byddwch yn derbyn y rhif ar ôl cyflwyno'ch cais cwrs).
Gwnewch gais am lety wedi ei reoli gan y Brifysgol cyn Awst yr 20fed i gael cynnig llety wedi ei warantu.
Dysgwch ragor am Lety i fyfyrwyr sy'n gwneud cais yn ystod Clirio .
Os ydych chi am ddod i Brifysgol Abertawe ond eisoes yn dal lle mewn prifysgol arall, gallwch wrthod eich lle yn eich Hwb UCAS ac ymuno â'r broses Glirio.
Darganfyddwch sut mae'n gweithio yn ein Canllaw ar Sut i Wrthod eich Lle ac Ymuno â Chlirio .
Mae ein campysau glan-môr godidog a chymuned cyfeillgar yn gwneud Abertawe yn lleoliad dymunol i fyfyrwyr o bob cwr o’r byd, sy’n galluogi’r bobl sy’n ymuno â ni i ddatblygu sgiliau a gwybodaeth sy’n eu paratoi ar gyfer gyrfaoedd llewyrchus a llwyddiannus.
Mae ein ffigurau’n siarad drostyn nhw eu hunain.
Rydym yn safle 29 yn y DU yn y Guardian University Guide 2025, ni yw Prifysgol y Flwyddyn yng Nghymru yn y Times Good University Guide 2025 a byddai 95% o’r myfyrwyr a holwyd yn argymell Prifysgol Abertawe (Uni Compare 2025).
Mae Abertawe hefyd wedi’i henwi fel y 7fed Ddinas Ddiogelaf yn y DU (Complete University Guide, 2024) sy’n ein gwneud yn lle delfrydol i astudio.
Darllenwch ragor am ragoriaeth addysgu Prifysgol Abertawe .
Ond peidiwch â chymryd ein gair ni amdano, darllenwch am brofiadau Cara - myfyrwraig Cymraeg blwyddyn olaf - wrth iddi sôn pam bod Abertawe yn lle gwych i astudio.
Edrychwch ar ein tudalen Cwestiynau Cyffredin i weld y wybodaeth ychwanegol rydym ni wedi ei gynnwys i ateb rhai o'r cwestiynau mae myfyrwyr yn aml yn gofyn yn ystod Clirio - o gwestiynau am fywyd myfyrwyr i sut mae'r broses Clirio'n gweithio.
Gallwch hefyd sgwrsio'n fyw gyda'r tîm derbyn os na fyddwch chi'n dod o hyd i'r ateb sydd ei angen arnoch chi.
Os ydych chi am glywed mwy am sut mae ein myfyrwyr yn teimlo am Brifysgol Abertawe, mae ein myfyrwyr cyfeillgar ar gael i ateb eich cwestiynau.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/clirio/llety-clirio:
Rydym yn deall y gall gwneud cais trwy'r system Glirio fod yn gyfnod gofidus i rai, ac y byddech chi eisiau sicrhau bod popeth mewn trefn cyn i chi symud i'ch cartref newydd ym mis Medi a dechrau ar eich taith gyffrous gyda ni.
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydym yn ceisio gwneud pethau mor hawdd â phosibl i chi.
Ar gyfer myfyrwyr Clirio, rydym yn cynnig Llety Gwarantedig.
Mae gwneud cais yn rhad ac am ddim a'r cynharaf y gwnewch chi gais, y gorau!
Edrychwch ar ein llety i weld pa safle a math o ystafell sydd orau i chi.
Yn ystod Clirio, mae siawns na fyddwn ni'n gallu cynnig eich dewis cyntaf o lety i chi ond byddwn yn gwneud ein gorau i roi rhywbeth mor debyg â phosibl i chi.
Cyflwynwch gais am lety gan ddefnyddio eich rhif Adnabod Personol UCAS .
Os wnaethoch chi gais yn uniongyrchol ac nid drwy UCAS, byddwch yn derbyn rhif adnabod Myfyriwr Clirio y gallwch ei ddefnyddio wrth wneud cais am lety:
Dylech chi dderbyn eich llety a thalu eich blaendal a rheoli eich ffioedd llety .
Paratowch i symud i mewn drwy wirio'r hyn mae angen i chi ddod ag ef, yr hyn rydym ni'n ei ddarparu a hyd yn oed sut i addurno eich ystafell !

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llongyfarchiadau:
Mae eich siwrne gyda Phrifysgol Abertawe yn dechrau yma, isod fe welwch chi wybodaeth am gyrraedd a chofrestru, cwblhau eich cais am lety, symud i mewn a llawer mwy.
Dysgwch ragor am glybiau a chymdeithasau gan gynnwys clybiau a chymdeithasau Cymraeg, digwyddiadau pythefnos y glas a dysgu pwy yw eich swyddogion Undeb y Myfyrwyr draw ar wefan Undeb y Myfyrwyr.
Os oes gennych gynnig cadarn amodol neu yswiriant gennym ac rydych yn bodloni'r gofynion, byddwch yn cael eich derbyn yn awtomatig i'ch rhaglen (bydd eich statws yn newid i 'gadarn diamod' neu 'yswiriant'), gwiriwch statws eich cais ar-lein yn UCAS .
Os yw eich lle wedi'i gadarnhau, nid oes angen cysylltu â'r brifysgol hefyd.
Caiff gwybodaeth yn eich croesawu i'r brifysgol ei hanfon atoch o fewn yr ychydig ddyddiau nesaf.
Os ydych wedi gwneud cais am le yn llety’r Brifysgol, bydd Gwasanaethau Preswyl yn dechrau dyrannu ystafelloedd dros y dyddiau nesaf a dylech dderbyn e-bost ganddynt o fewn wythnos neu ddwy.
Cofiwch ddilyn y cyfarwyddiadau yn y cynnig llety i dderbyn eich cynnig.
Os nad ydych eisoes wedi gwneud cais am lety Prifysgol , dylech wneud cais ar-lein cyn gynted â phosibl.
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau ynglŷn â llety, cysylltwch â’r Tîm Gwasanaethau Preswyl yn uniongyrchol ar 01792 295101.
120 o gymdeithasau gan gynnwys y Gymdeithas Gymraeg ac Aelwyd yr Elyrch , 50 o glybiau chwaraeon a 12 mis o ddigwyddiadau na ddylech eu colli.
Fel myfyriwr Prifysgol Abertawe, rydych chi'n aelod o'r Undeb Myfyrwyr yn awtomatig, felly rydych chi'n rhan o'n cymuned wych, fawr, amrywiol!
Mae'r UM yn sefydliad sy’n cael ei arwain gan fyfyrwyr, sy'n golygu eu bod nhw yma i gynrychioli eu haelodau.
Dysgwch ragor am Undeb y Myfyrwyr!
Edrychwch ar dudalen newyddion a digwyddiadau Undeb y Myfyrwyr
Fel myfyriwr Prifysgol Abertawe, bydd gennych fynediad llawn at ein tîm Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn MyUni.
Gwefan MyUni yw eich gwefan Myfyriwr ar gyfer gwybodaeth am wasanaethau cymorth a lles, beth i'w wneud a ble i fynd ar y Campws a gwybodaeth gan eich cyfadrannau a'ch meysydd pwnc.
Mae tîm MyUniHub yma i'ch helpu i gael mynediad at ystod eang o wasanaethau cymorth y Brifysgol ac i'ch helpu i ddatrys unrhyw ymholiadau sydd gennych.
Ymweld â Hwb MyUni
Gwybodaeth Cyrraedd a Chroeso
Cymorth a Lles yn Abertawe
Darganfyddwch fwy am Ŵyl y Glas
Byw yn abertawe
Bywyd ar y campws

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/clirio/cyllid-i-fyfyrwyr-clirio:
Ydych chi'n mynd trwy'r broses Clirio?
Ydych chi'n pendroni sut fydd hynny'n effeithio ar eich cyllid myfyrwyr?
Darllenwch ein cyngor isod i fyfyrwyr o Gymru a Lloegr sy'n gwneud cais ar gyfer astudio yn 2025.
Os byddwch chi'n newid eich cwrs neu brifysgol trwy Glirio yna bydd angen i chi ddiweddaru'ch cais ar-lein.
I wneud hyn, mae angen i chi fewngofnodi yn eich cyfrif ar-lein gyda Chyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru , clicio ar 'Fy Nghyfrif' yna 'Newid fy nghais' a diweddaru'r manylion teitl cwrs a phrifysgol.
Cofiwch newid eich cyfeiriad adeg tymor os yw hwn hefyd wedi newid.
Os byddwch chi'n newid eich cwrs ar ôl ei gychwyn, yna bydd angen i Brifysgol Abertawe gysylltu â Chyllid Myfyrwyr ar eich rhan.
Cysylltwch â'r tîm Cyllid Myfyrwyr i drefnu hyn.
Rydym yn cynghori myfyrwyr hefyd i gysylltu â'n Tîm Cyngor Ariannol i wirio a fydd unrhyw newidiadau yn effeithio ar eich cyllid.
Os nad ydych wedi cael cyllid wedi'i gymeradwyo eto, rydym yn argymell yn gryf nad ydych yn cofrestru nes bod hyn wedi'i gadarnhau oherwydd os byddwch yn cofrestru byddwch yn atebol i dalu ffioedd ac efallai y bydd eich cymhwysedd cyllid yn y dyfodol yn cael ei effeithio.
Os ydych yn ansicr, cysylltwch â'r tîm Cyngor Ariannol .
Os ydych chi wedi cyflwyno eich manylion newid cwrs/prifysgol i gyllid myfyrwyr ond heb dderbyn hysbysiad eto am y newid hwn, mae dal modd i chi gofrestru a derbyn y taliad benthyciad cynhaliaeth cyntaf.
Y cyfan sydd angen i chi wneud yw:-
Y ffordd cyflymaf a hawsaf yw i wneud cais drwy wefan Cyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru .
Gellir cyflwyno eich cais yn Gymraeg neu Saesneg.
Gellir hefyd darparu gwybodaeth a chyngor dros y ffôn yn Gymraeg neu Saesneg.
Tystiolaeth hunaniaeth Mae'n ofynnol i chi gyflwyno tystiolaeth o'ch hunaniaeth fel rhan o'ch cais.
Gallwch wneud hyn drwy naill ai:
Peidiwch â phoeni os ydych chi'n colli'r dyddiad cau, mae hyd at 9 mis o ddechrau'r tymor academaidd gyda chi i wneud cais am gyllid myfyrwyr.
Y ffordd hawsaf a chyflymaf i wneud cais yw drwy wefan Cyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru .
Mae modd cyflwyno'ch cais yn Gymraeg ac mae galwadau ffôn cyfrwng Cymraeg yn cael eu hannog.
Prawf Adnabod Un o ofynion eich cais yw eich bod yn cadarnhau pwy ydych chi.
Gallwch wneud hyn trwy naill ai:
Myfyrwyr o Gymru
Mae faint y byddwch yn gymwys i dderbyn yn dibynnu ar sawl ffactor y gallwch eu darllen ar wefan Cyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru.
Os nad ydych chi wedi gwneud cais eto, gwnewch gais ar lein cyn gynted â phosibl!
Mae modd newid y manylion cwrs a phrifysgol nes ymlaen os oes angen.
Os ydych yn ansicr o ba gyllid sydd hawl gennych chi dderbyn, mae mwy o wybodaeth ar ein tudalennau benthyciadau a grantiau myfyrwyr .
Unwaith y bydd eich benthyciad wedi’i gadarnhau, peidiwch ag anghofio cyflwyno eich Telerau ac Amodau Ar-lein (OTC) drwy eich cyfrif ar-lein gyda Llofnod Electronig (E-lofnod), neu ni fyddwch yn cael unrhyw daliad ar ddechrau’r tymor!
Cofiwch hefyd fod y Benthyciad Cynhaliaeth ac unrhyw Grantiau yn cael eu talu’n uniongyrchol i’ch cyfrif banc ond bod eich Benthyciad Ffi Dysgu yn cael ei dalu’n uniongyrchol i’r brifysgol.
Dysgwch fwy am y tîm Cyngor Ariannol
Edrychwch ar ein tudalennau Costau Byw

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/israddedig/ffioedd-a-chyllid/costau-bob-dydd:
Mae tîm Arian@BywydCampws yn deall y bydd costau byw cynyddol yn peri pryder i lawer o’n myfyrwyr eleni.
Mae gennym ni wybodaeth fanwl a chyfredol ar gael i fyfyrwyr ar ein tudalen gwe Costau Byw, a gall myfyrwyr gael mynediad i ystod gynhwysfawr o adnoddau cyllidebu, cyngor ac awgrymiadau arbed arian, gan gynnwys gwybodaeth am becynnau cymorth biliau ynni’r llywodraeth, ar ein My Tudalennau'r Brifysgol .
Os bydd myfyrwyr sydd wedi cofrestru yn wynebu caledi oherwydd amgylchiadau annisgwyl, efallai bydd modd iddynt gyflwyno cais am ein cronfeydd caledi.
Disgwylir y bydd myfyrwyr wedi blaenoriaethu eu costau hanfodol cyn cyflwyno cais.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, ewch i'n tudalen we ynghylch Cronfeydd Caledi
Y cyngor pwysicaf y gallwn ei gynnig yw peidiwch â chael trafferth yn dawel: Gall cyfathrebu cynnar helpu i atal problemau rhag gwaethygu, felly siaradwch â ni os ydych yn poeni am eich arian a byddwn yn gweithio gyda chi i archwilio'ch opsiynau.
*Cynrychiolir costau llety Prifysgol Abertawe ar y rhagdybiaeth o gytundeb cytundebol 40 wythnos safonol.
Tynnir ffigurau costau byw cyffredinol o set ddata Achub y Myfyriwr 2023 , a gyhoeddwyd ym mis Medi 2023 ar gyfer y flwyddyn academaidd 23/24.
Yn lle data arolwg diweddar rydym wedi diweddaru'r ffigurau hyn dros dro yn unol â chwyddiant i gynrychioli amcangyfrif mwy manwl gywir.
Gwariant
Y gost fesul wythnos
Y gost fesul blwyddyn academaidd (40 wythnos)
Rhent
£7560
Nwy/Trydan Dwr
Wedi'i gynnwys yn y Rhent
Yswiriant Cynnwys
* Cost gyfartalog yn seiliedig ar ystafell en-suite ganolig.
Mae costau llety'r Brifysgol yn amrywio o £140 yr wythnos - £269 yr wythnos yn dibynnu ar y gofynion ac mae Blaendal Archebu ymlaen llaw o £100.00 yn daladwy ar dderbyn eich cynnig o lety.
Cost yr wythnos
Cost y flwyddyn (52 wythnos)
£131.25
£6825
Nwy/Trydan/Dŵr/Rhyngrwyd
(Fesul person)
£21.50
£1118
Costau Teithio
£8.46 (£5.58)*
£440 (£290)*
*Mae'r costau mewn cromfachau ar gyfer y rhai sy'n gwneud cais am Docyn Teithio .
Sylwch mai ffigurau cyfartalog yw’r rhain sy’n seiliedig ar y dybiaeth o ystafell ddwbl mewn tŷ sy’n cael ei rentu’n breifat a rennir o dan gytundeb cytundebol o 52 wythnos.
Bydd Bond / Blaendal yn daladwy i lety diogel.
Costau Byw Cyffredinol
Costau fesul wythnos
Gwariant Hamdden
(gan gynnwys cymdeithasu, siopau cludfwyd, gwyliau, digwyddiadau ac iechyd a lles)
£49.31
£1972.40
Trwydded deledu
£4.42
£169.50
Dillad/Golchi Dillad
£12.12
£484.80
Bwyd/Deunydd Ystafell Ymolchi/Eitemau Cartref
£40.25
£1610
Ffôn (Symudol)
£6.04
£241.60
Costau gofal plant
£258.65*
£10346
*Yn seiliedig ar gyfradd gyfartalog fesul awr meithrinfa ddydd Abertawe o £7.39 x 35 awr a dreulir ar gyfartaledd yn mynychu'r Brifysgol yr wythnos (Ffynhonnell: Childcare.co.uk ).
GWYBODAETH BWYSIG
Sylwer: Bwriad y dudalen hon yw rhoi enghraifft i chi o gostau byw myfyriwr yn y brifysgol.
Bydd costau byw gwirioneddol yn amrywio o fyfyriwr i fyfyriwr.
Mae'r holl gostau byw yn amcangyfrifon rhesymol ond ni ddylid dibynnu arnynt.
Cyfrifoldeb y myfyriwr yw sicrhau bod ganddo ddigon o arian i dalu ei gostau byw tra'n astudio yn y brifysgol.
Ni all y ffigurau hyn roi cyfrif am amgylchiadau unigol ac fe'u bwriedir fel canllaw cyffredinol yn unig i'ch helpu i baratoi eich arian cyn mynd i'r brifysgol.
Gellir lleihau'r costau hyn gyda blaengynllunio a chyllidebu gofalus.
Tynnir y ffigurau o gostau cyfartalog a dalwyd gan fyfyrwyr o ffynonellau amrywiol gan gynnwys Save The Student ( set Ddata 2023 ), Mynegai Prisiau Defnyddwyr a Helpwr Arian.
Mae chwyddiant wedi’i gymhwyso, sy’n golygu bod y ffigurau’n adlewyrchu costau byw gwirioneddol ym mis Awst 2023.
I gael gwybodaeth am ba incwm y gallech fod â hawl iddo, ewch i'n Tudalen Ariannu Israddedig .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ansawdd-addysgu:
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, rydym yn falch o ddarparu addysgu llawn ysbrydoliaeth , sydd wedi ei gefnogi gan ymchwil o'r radd flaenaf a rhagoriaeth mewn arfer proffesiynol , er mwyn eich helpu i ragori.Yn wir, pan ofynnwyd i'n myfyrwyr beth roedden nhw'n ei gysylltu â Phrifysgol Abertawe, rhoddon nhw Addysg o Safon Uchel yn yr ail safle.
(Arolwg ymgeiswyr israddedig 2024 Prifysgol Abertawe, yn seiliedig ar restr o 18 ffactor).
Yn seiliedig ar Strategaeth Dysgu ac Addysgu gadarn, mae ein staff yn gweithio ochr yn ochr ag arbenigwyr mewn datblygiad addysgiadol er mwyn darparu profiad dysgu ysgogol a chynhwysol i bob myfyriwr - adlewyrchir hyn gan y ffaith bod 28 o'n pynciau ymysg yr 20 uchaf yn y DU am Foddhad â’r Addysgu yn yr Arolwg Cenedlaethol o Fyfyrwyr, NSS*
Rydym yn ymdrechu i sicrhau bod ein haddysgu'n datblygu'n barhaus, bod ein hathrawon bob amser wedi eu hysbrydoli, a bod gan ein myfyrwyr fynediad at gyfleoedd astudio buddiol ac arloesol , sy'n rhan o'r rheswm bod The Guardian, sef y tabl cynghrair sy'n canolbwyntio fwyaf ar addysgu yn y DU, wedi gosod Abertawe yn safle 29 allan o 122 o sefydliadau yn y DU (Guardian University Guide, 2025).
Dyma rai o'r ffyrdd y byddwch yn elwa o astudio yn Abertawe, gyda dyfyniadau gan rai o'n myfyrwyr yn trafod eu profiadau dysgu:
Nid dim ond mewn ystafelloedd dosbarth a darlithfeydd y byddwch chi'n dysgu.
Er enghraifft, mae gan fyfyrwyr yn y Gyfadran Meddygaeth, Iechyd a Gwyddor Bywyd fynediad i Ganolfan Ddysgu trwy Efelychu a Throchi Prifysgol Abertawe (SUSIM) - cyfleuster sy'n arwain y byd sy'n defnyddio amrywiaeth o fethodolegau addysg seiliedig ar efelychiad.
Mae’r Gyfadran Wyddoniaeth a Pheirianneg yn ganolbwynt ar gyfer ymchwil arloesol, gyda gweithdai, labordai a chyfleusterau o’r radd flaenaf, a bydd myfyrwyr sy’n astudio pynciau cysylltiedig â’r Cyfryngau yng Nghyfadran y Dyniaethau a’r Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol yn dysgu mewn ystafelloedd dylunio trawiadol ac ystafelloedd Rhithwir.
Mae ein tîmau Casgliadau Diwylliannol, gan gynnwys y Ganolfan Eifftaidd , y Casgliad Hanes Cyfrifiadura , Archifau Richard Burton a Llyfrgell Glowyr De Cymru yn cynnig mynediad at adnoddau cyfoethog a phrofiadau dysgu sy'n seiliedig ar wrthrychau sy'n unigryw i Abertawe.
Rydym yn ymrwymedig i sicrhau eich bod chi'n ffynnu ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, beth bynnag yw eich cefndir neu eich amgylchiadau personol.
Mae cymorth academaidd a bugeiliol cynhwysol ar gael i'n cymuned amrywiol o fyfyrwyr.
Mae Academi Cynwysoldeb Abertawe yn gweithio gyda chydweithwyr ar draws Prifysgol Abertawe i sicrhau bod myfyrwyr o bob cefndir yn cael eu cefnogi.
Bydd Academi Cynwysoldeb Abertawe yn cefnogi myfyrwyr drwy gydol eu taith academaidd, o’u dilyniant a sicrhau eu bod yn parhau â’u hastudiaethau, o’u cadw a’u dilyniant i ganlyniadau.
Mae eu gwaith yn sicrhau bod dysgu, addysgu ac asesu cynhwysol yn hygyrch i bawb; bod gan bob myfyriwr fynediad at y cyfleoedd sydd ar gael; ac y caiff pob myfyriwr ei gefnogi i gyflawni ei botensial llawn.
Mae ein hymgyrch 'Gyda'n Gilydd Gwnaethom Newid' wedi taflu goleuni ar yr holl newidiadau gwych a gafwyd o ganlyniad i adborth myfyrwyr, ym mhob agwedd ar fywyd myfyriwr, gan gynnwys addysgu.
Nod yr ymgyrch yw cynnwys myfyrwyr yn yr holl gamau gweithredu a wnaed sy'n seiliedig ar yr ymatebion i'r arolygon myfyrwyr , negeseuon ar Unitu , sylwadau mewn paneli Barn Myfyrwyr/grwpiau ffocws , a gweithgarwch cyfranogiad myfyrwyr arall.
Drwy rannu eich barn fel myfyrwyr, mae’n ein helpu i wella profiad myfyrwyr.
Mae'r adborth cadarnhaol y mae ein myfyrwyr yn ei roi ar y darlithwyr a'r addysgu yn bwydo i mewn i wobrau blynyddol Rhagoriaeth mewn Dysgu ac Addysgu ac i wobrau Cymorth Myfyrwyr a enwebir gan fyfyrwyr, gan amlygu ansawdd y profiad addysgol yma.
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, mae gennym academi sy'n hyfforddi staff academaidd i wella'r ffordd rydym yn addysgu yn barhaus.
Mae Academi Dysgu ac Addysgu Abertawe (SALT) yn gweithio gyda staff academaidd a phroffesiynol ar draws y Brifysgol i wella addysgu, dysgu ac asesu gan gefnogi ein profiad myfyrwyr o safon.
Mae'r gwasanaethau Ansawdd Academaidd yn cyflwyno ymagwedd arloesol sy'n arwain y sector i sicrhau ansawdd a'i wella, gan alluogi Abertawe i gyflawni a chynnal profiad myfyrwyr ac amgylchedd addysgu rhagorol.
Mae ein ffocws ar sut rydym yn addysgu wedi helpu i sicrhau bod 37 o’n pynciau yn ymddangos yn y 30 uchaf yn y DU ar gyfer Addysgu (sgor cyfartaledd ar draws cwestiynau 1-4 yn NSS 2025) o'r sefydliadau sy'n ymddangos yn y Times Good University Guide.
Ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe, mae ein hymchwilwyr yn cydweithio ar draws pynciau a diwydiannau i ysgogi newid.
O arloesi ym maes iechyd a gweithgynhyrchu clyfar , i ddylanwadu ar brosesau cyfiawnder a chydraddoldeb a diogelu'r byd ar gyfer cenedlaethau'r dyfodol , bydd myfyrwyr Abertawe'n dysgu gan y rhai sy'n gwneud gwahaniaeth i'n byd sy'n newid yn barhaus, ac sydd hyd yn oed yn diwygio addysg ei hun.
Rydym yn falch o fod yn sefydliad Cymraeg, ac rydym yn cynnig yr opsiwn i ddysgu drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, gan gynnig darpariaeth cyfrwng Cymraeg ym mhob cyfadran.
Mae gennym ystod o opsiynau ar gael, o ddilyn cyrsiau gradd cyfan i fodiwlau penodol drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, ac mae adrannau penodol hefyd yn cynnig seminarau a thiwtorialau cyfrwng Cymraeg ar gyfer modiwlau a addysgir yn bennaf drwy gyfrwng y Saesneg.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n gweithio mewn partneriaeth â’r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol ; mae ein cangen, Academi Hywel Teifi , yn darparu cymorth ac arweiniad i fyfyrwyr sy'n dymuno astudio drwy gyfrwng Y Gymraeg.
Mae 94% o fyfyrwyr mewn cyflogaeth, astudiaeth a/neu weithgareddau eraill, megis teithio, 15 mis ar ôl gadael Prifysgol Abertawe (HESA 2024).
Mae hyn oherwydd, y tu hwnt i'r ystafell ddosbarth, rydym yn cefnogi myfyrwyr wrth iddynt baratoi ar gyfer byd wedi graddio.
Trwy Academi Cyflogadwyedd Abertawe , rydym yn helpu i roi'r offer sydd eu hangen ar fyfyrwyr i ffynnu pan fyddant yn ein gadael.
Trwy gyrsiau datblygu gyrfa arloesol, pwrpasol ac ymgynghoriadau un i un gyda'n cynghorwyr gyrfaoedd hyfforddedig, rydym yn mynd â'r addysgu ymhellach na'r hyn a ragnodir ym meysydd llafur y cwrs.
Rydyn ni wir yn poeni am brofiad addysgol ein myfyrwyr yn ystod eu hamser gyda ni yma.
*Sgôr positifrwydd cyfartalog ar draws cwestiynau 1 i 4 yn NSS 2025 y sefydliadau sy’n ymddangos yn y Times Good University Guide sy’n cynnig pynciau.
Yn eich helpu i ffynnu yn eich astudiaethau

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/personel/swyddi:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe’n weithle amrywiol a chroesawgar, sy'n gwerthfawrogi pobl am eu sgiliau, ni waeth beth yw eu cefndir.
Croesewir ceisiadau yn Gymraeg ac ni chânt eu trin yn llai ffafriol na rhai a gyflwynir yn Saesneg.
Dyma gyfle cyffrous i ymuno â phrosiect a ariennir gan Gymrodoriaeth Arweinwyr y Dyfodol sy'n astudio adweithiau nwy-arwyneb
Cyflog: £34,132 i £45,413 y flwyddyn
Dyddiad Cau: 07-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU01158
Mae'r Ganolfan Ymchwil, Addysg a Thriniaeth Gamblo (GREAT) ym Mhrifysgol Abertawe am benodi tiwtor GREAT mewn Seicoleg Ymddygiadol.
Cyflog: £34,132 i £38,249 y flwyddyn
Dyddiad Cau: 31-08-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU00998
Mae angen myfyriwr o'r radd flaenaf sydd â chefndir cryf mewn mesurau i ddatblygu sgiliau a phrofiad yn yr analysiad data a modelu
Rhif y Swydd: SU01150
Mae Tîm y Platfform Ymchwil Diogel (SeRP) yn recriwtio Rheolwr Data Cynorthwyol i gefnogi gweithrediadau.
Rhif y Swydd: SU01148
Darlithydd Meddwl Feirniadol (rhan-amser)
Cyflog: £36 i £42 y flwyddyn
Dyddiad Cau: 01-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SD03225
Swyddog Ymchwil mewn Ffiseg Wrth-hydrogen yn CERN yn y Swistir
Cyflog: £39,105 i £45,163 y flwyddyn
Dyddiad Cau: 04-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU01151
Mae'r Ysgol Seicoleg yn recriwtio Cymrawd Addysgu mewn Seicoleg, gyda ffocws ar ddulliau ymchwil, lles a seicoleg hinsawdd.
Dyddiad Cau: 03-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU01159
Mae arnom angen dau swyddog prosiect SeRP i gynorthwyo wrth weithredu platfformau ymchwil SeRP a rheoli prosiectau.
Cyflog: £39,355 i £45,413 y flwyddyn
Rhif y Swydd: SU01172
Recriwtio Cynorthwy-ydd Dysgu Clinigol yn y Peirianneg Clinigol i helpu i gyflwyno elfenau'r rhaglen BSc yn Peirianneg Clinigol yn seiliedig ar waith
Rhif y Swydd: SU01187
Darlithydd brwdfrydig sy'n gymwys i addysgu modiwlau cyfraith sylfaenol i ymuno â'n tîm academaidd
Cyflog: £42.00 - £45.00 yr awr
Dyddiad Cau: 08-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SD03223
Rydym am benodi unigolyn brwdfrydig a llawn cymhelliant i ymuno â thîm y BioHYB Cynhyrchion Naturiol
Cyflog: £29,959 i £33,482 y flwyddyn
Dyddiad Cau: 10-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU01183
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn dymuno penodi Cynorthwy-ydd Cyllid.
Cyflog: £23,881 i £25,733 y flwyddyn
Rhif y Swydd: SU01141
Mae cais yn cael ei wneud am Gymhellwr Ymchwil i gefnogi'r prosiect ymchwil MAGENTA sy'n archwilio effaith exposure gwres ar ganlyniadau beichiogrwydd
Dyddiad Cau: 11-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU01182
Darparu hyfforddiant rhagorol ar draws maes chwaraeon myfyrwyr, o gyfranogiad ar lawr gwlad i berfformiad uchel.
Dyddiad Cau: 09-09-2025
Rhif y Swydd: SU01173

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/ymwadiad-a-hawlfraint:
Gwna Prifysgol Abertawe bob ymdrech i geisio sicrhau bod y deunydd a gyhoeddir ar brif weinyddwr Prifysgol Abertawe yn gyfredol ac yn gywrain.
Er hynny, nid yw'n derbyn cyfrifoldeb cyfreithiol am gamgymeriadau na bylchau, ac mae’n cadw’r hawl i wneud newidiadau (gan gynnwys ffioedd, rheoliadau a gwasanaethau, cynnwys y cyrsiau a’r ddarpariaeth), heb rybudd.
Mae monitro pob tudalen, o gofio'r adnoddau sydd ar gael, yn waith  hir ag ymdrechgar.
Fodd bynnag, caiff ceisiadau rhesymol am newidiadau eu trin fesul achos.
Nid yw Prifysgol Abertawe yn derbyn unrhyw gyfrifoldeb am gyngor neu wybodaeth anghywir a ddarperir gan wefannau y mae modd eu cyrraedd drwy ddolenni ar wefan y Brifysgol.
Does gan Brifysgol Abertawe ddim rheolaeth golygyddol dros weinyddwyr ymylol yn y parth www.swansea.ac.uk.
Serch hynny, cedwir pob hawl i ddileu cynnwys oddi arnynt sy'n torri amodau'r hawlfraint – deunydd sarhaus, aflan, difenwol, anghywir neu sydd fel arall yn torri amodau'r polisi ar ddefnyddio cyfrifiaduron yn y Brifysgol.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn gweithredu'n syth os y daw problemau ar y gweinyddwyr ymylol yma i'r amlwg.
Daw pob darn a gyhoeddir ar weinyddwr gwe'r Brifysgol o dan (c) Hawlfraint Prifysgol Cymru Abertawe 2005, ar wahân i gynnwys a nodir yn eiddo hawlfraint rhywun arall.
Gall unigolion lwytho i lawr neu gopïo'r fath ddeunydd at ddefnydd personol yn unig.
Os am gynnig ail-greu unrhyw ddeunydd arall dylid cysylltu â Swyddfa'r We, Yr Adran Farchnata, Adeilad Talbot, Prifysgol Abertawe, SA2 8PP.
Cedwir pob hawl.
Mae gan y lluniau a'r delweddau sy'n ymddangos ar weinyddwr gwe'r Brifysgol hawlfreintiau amrywiol.
Maent i'w defnyddio ar dudalennau a gyhoeddwyd gan weinyddwr gwe'r Brifysgol yn unig.
Am fanylion ynglyn â lluniau unigol, cysylltwch â Swyddfa'r We os gwelwch yn dda.
Ni ddylid ail-greu delweddau heb gael caniatâd o flaen llaw.
Os ydych yn dymuno i ni ddileu unrhyw dudalen neu unrhyw destun o'r wefan, dylech gysylltu â www@abertawe.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/cy/y-brifysgol/amdanom-ni/llywodraethu'r-brifysgol/atebolrwydd-cyhoeddus/deddf-caethwasiaeth-fodern-2015/datganiad-ar-gaethwasiaeth-fodern-a-masnachu-pobl:
Mae caethwasiaeth fodern yn drosedd ac yn mynd yn groes i hawliau dynol sylfaenol.
Mae’n bodoli mewn gwahanol ffurfiau, megis caethwasiaeth, caethwasanaeth, llafur dan orfod, llafur gorfodol a masnachu pobl.
Mae pob un o'r rhain ag elfen gyffredin, sef bod un person neu grŵp yn amddifadu unigolyn neu unigolion o'u rhyddid er mwyn cam-fanteisio arnynt er mantais bersonol neu fasnachol.
Gwneir y datganiad hwn yn unol ag adran 54(1) o Ddeddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern 2015 a hwn yw ein datganiad caethwasiaeth a masnachu pobl ar gyfer y flwyddyn ariannol sy'n gorffen ar 31 Gorffennaf 2025.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn mynnu ar ymagwedd dim goddefgarwch mewn perthyna â chaethwasiaeth fodern.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn sefydliad uchelgeisiol, sy'n rhoi pwyslais ar ymchwil, ac mae ganddi 24,600 o fyfyrwyr a 3,714 o staff.
Corff llywodraethu'r Brifysgol, y Cyngor, sydd â rheolaeth gyffredinol ar y Brifysgol a'i materion, ei dibenion a'i swyddogaethau.
Yr Uwch Dîm Arweinyddiaeth sy'n gyfrifol yn weithredol am y Brifysgol, ac mae'n cynnwys yr Is-Ganghellor, y Dirprwy Is-Gangellorion, y Cofrestrydd a'r Prif Swyddog Gweithredu a'r Prif Swyddog Ariannol.
Mae'r corff hwn yn darparu fforwm ar gyfer cynghori'r Is-Ganghellor ac uwch swyddogion eraill y Brifysgol ar faterion sy'n ymwneud â'u cyfrifoldebau portffolio.
Gweld datganiadau ariannol y Brifysgol .
Mae'r Brifysgol yn cydweithio â chonsortia pwrcasu Addysg Uwch eraill a sefydliadau eraill ar asesu risg a phrosesau diwydrwydd dyladwy i rannu arferion da ac osgoi dyblygu ymdrech i'r Prifysgolion a chyflenwyr allanol.
Mae'r Brifysgol hefyd yn gweithio gyda'r Gymdeithas Pwrcasu Addysg Uwch (HEPA) a sefydliadau ar draws y sector, gan fod yn aelod o Grŵp Pwrcasu Cyfrifol HEPA.
Mae gan Brifysgol Abertawe gadwyn gyflenwi fyd-eang, ac mae’n gwario £187 miliwn bob blwyddyn yn prynu ystod o nwyddau, gwasanaethau a gweithiau.
Mae dros 94% o gyflenwyr y Brifysgol wedi'u lleoli yn y DU, ond mae dealltwriaeth a gwerthfawrogiad y gallai'r gadwyn gyflenwi ehangach gael ei lledaenu yn fyd-eang ac felly mae'r risg o gaethwasiaeth fodern yn cynyddu.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn parhau i ganolbwyntio ar fonitro ardaloedd a chyflenwyr categori risg uchel er mwyn sicrhau nad oes caethwasiaeth fodern yn y cadwyni cyflenwi strategol.
Mae'r sectorau risg uchel ar gyfer Caethwasiaeth Fodern yn cynnwys cyflenwadau swyddfa, nwyddau traul labordy, offer TGCh a rhai gwasanaethau ystadau (rheoli cyfleusterau).
Gan fod y mwyafrif o wariant Prifysgol Abertawe a threfniadau cytundebol ar gyfer y sectorau hyn drwy fframweithiau cenedlaethol neu gyflenwyr lleol, mae'r risg gweddilliol o dramgwyddau caethwasiaeth fodern yn yr ardaloedd hyn yn isel.
Mae contract Darparu Gwasanaethau Diogelwch Prifysgol Abertawe sydd ar ddod wedi cynnwys rhwymedigaethau sy'n ei gwneud yn ofynnol i'r contractwr gael a chynnal ei bolisïau ei hun drwy gydol cyfnod y Contract o ran osgoi caethwasiaeth a masnachu pobl, gan osod disgwyliadau o'r cychwyn cyntaf a sicrhau bod y cyfrifoldeb hwn yn cael ei gynnwys fel rhwymedigaeth gytundebol.
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi llofnodi Cod Ymarfer Llywodraeth Cymru ar Gyflogaeth Foesegol mewn Cadwyni Cyflenwi, sy'n cefnogi dileu arferion cyflogaeth anghyfreithlon ac anfoesegol i sicrhau bod gweithwyr ar bob cam o'r gadwyn gyflenwi yn cael eu trin yn deg.
Yn ystod y flwyddyn i fis Gorffennaf 2024, gweithredodd y Brifysgol mewn modd cyfrifol i sicrhau ei bod yn cydymffurfio â Deddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern 2015.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi ymrwymo i weithio tuag at sicrhau nad oes caethwasiaeth fodern na masnachu pobl yn ein cadwyni cyflenwi nac mewn unrhyw ran o'n busnes.
Gan ystyried y ddyletswydd i adrodd ar fesurau i sicrhau na cheir caethwasiaeth yn unrhyw ran o'n busnes na'n cadwyn gyflenwi, byddwn yn parhau i adolygu ein polisïau a'n gweithdrefnau yn y gweithle i asesu eu heffeithiolrwydd wrth nodi a mynd i'r afael â materion caethwasiaeth fodern.
Mae cyhoeddi'r datganiad hwn hefyd yn un o ofynion Cod Ymarfer Cyflogaeth Foesegol mewn Cadwyni Cyflenwi Llywodraeth Cymru, yr ymrwymodd y Brifysgol i'w lofnodi ochr yn ochr â phob Prifysgol yng Nghymru ym mis Gorffennaf 2017.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe yn gweithio tuag at gyflawni ymrwymiadau'r Cod Ymarfer, sy'n cynnwys annog ein cyflenwyr i fabwysiadu'r Cod
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n ymrwymo i ystyried prosesau diwydrwydd dyladwy yn ein busnes ein hunain a busnes ein cadwyn gyflenwi.
Rydym yn rhoi systemau ar waith i nodi, asesu a monitro meysydd risg posibl yn ein cadwyni cyflenwi fel ein bod yn parhau i liniaru'r risgiau hynny.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn aelod o'r Consortiwm Pwrcasu Addysg Uwch, Cymru (HEPCW).
Mae HEPCW yn gweithio'n effeithiol ochr yn ochr â'i gorff cyfatebol, Consortia Pwrcasu Prifysgolion y DU.
Mae'r rhaglen contractio ar y cyd yn darparu portffolio cydweithredol cynhwysfawr ac aeddfed, sy'n cynnwys rhai o'r categorïau risg uchel megis cyflenwadau swyddfa, nwyddau traul labordy, offer TGCh a rhai gwasanaethau ystadau (rheoli cyfleusterau).
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n gweithio ar y cyd â HEPCW ac o fewn y Consortia Pwrcasu AU i nodi'r cyflenwyr yn y categorïau risg uchel hyn, mewn perthynas â chaethwasiaeth a masnachu pobl, ac mae wedi ymrwymo i Gofrestr Tryloywder mewn Cadwyni Cyflenwi (TISC) Llywodraeth Cymru.
Mae'r broses dendro Prifysgolion yn sicrhau bod pob cyflenwr yn deall ei rwymedigaethau fel cyflenwr i brifysgol ac yn ymrwymo i fynd i'r afael â Chaethwasiaeth Fodern o fewn ei gadwyni cyflenwi.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe hefyd yn cynnal gwiriadau diwydrwydd dyladwy ar gydymffurfiaeth pob cyflenwr newydd â'r Ddeddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern, gan sicrhau bod yr holl sefydliadau masnachol perthnasol (fel y'u diffinnir yn adran 54 Deddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern 2015) yn cydymffurfio â'r gofynion o ran adrodd.
Mae'n ofynnol i bob cyflenwr (pan gaiff ei ddiffinio’n sefydliad masnachol yn adran 54 rhan 2(b) o'r Ddeddf) ddatgan ei fod yn cydymffurfio â'r gofynion i adrodd yn flynyddol sy’n rhan o Ddeddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern 2015 a nodi cyfeiriad at ei ddatganiad ynghylch y Ddeddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern.
Drwy weithio gyda’r Consortiwm Pwrcasu Addysg Uwch Cymru ehangach, mae'r Brifysgol wedi ymgysylltu â NETPositive Futures i ddarparu cronfa ddata ryngweithiol o gyflenwyr cyfredol i asesu eu cydymffurfiaeth â Deddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern 2015.
Bydd y system yn:
Mae llawer o'n cyflenwyr yn y categorïau risg uwch hyn wedi ymrwymo i God Sylfaenol y Fenter Masnachu Moesegol (ETI) ac mae Consortia Pwrcasu Prifysgolion y DU yn gweithio i berswadio'r cyflenwyr sy'n weddill yn y categorïau hyn i ymuno â nhw.
Mae'r Cod Sylfaenol ETI yn seiliedig ar gonfensiynau'r Sefydliad Llafur Rhyngwladol (ILO) ac mae'n god ymarfer llafur a gydnabyddir yn rhyngwladol, sy'n mynnu cydymffurfiaeth â'r canlynol:
Prifysgol Abertawe oedd y gyntaf yng Nghymru i ennill statws Masnach Deg.
Mae gan wasanaeth arlwyo'r Brifysgol ymrwymiad cryf i gynaliadwyedd, Masnach Deg ac i brynu lleol.
Mae Masnach Deg yn ymwneud â phrisiau gwell, amodau gwaith da, cynaliadwyedd lleol a thelerau masnach teg i ffermwyr a gweithwyr yn y byd datblygol.
Yn ogystal, Prifysgol Abertawe oedd y sefydliad cyntaf yng Nghymru i ymuno ag Electronics Watch.
Mae Electronics Watch yn sefydliad monitro annibynnol sy'n helpu prynwyr y sector cyhoeddus i weithio gyda'i gilydd i sicrhau parch at hawliau llafur a safonau diogelwch yn y ffatrïoedd sy'n gwneud y caledwedd TGCh y maent yn ei brynu.
Trwy weithredu ar sail aelodaeth gyswllt, mae Electronics Watch yn caniatáu i brynwyr y sector cyhoeddus rannu cost monitro cyflenwyr â'r rhwydwaith cyfan o gysylltiadau a chydlynu ymgysylltiad â'r diwydiant.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe'n gweithio mewn cysylltiad ag Electronics Watch felly i ddatblygu tryloywder yn ei chadwyn gyflenwi i gyflenwyr haen is, er mwyn lliniaru'r risg o arferion cyflogaeth anfoesegol, er enghraifft, mwynau gwrthdaro a gyflenwir i wneuthurwyr nwyddau electroneg.
Mae'r cyflog byw gwirioneddol yn cael ei gyfrifo'n annibynnol yn seiliedig ar yr hyn sydd ei angen ar weithwyr a'u teuluoedd i fyw ac mae'n uwch na'r cyflog byw cenedlaethol a bennir gan Lywodraeth y DU.
Mae cyflogwyr achrededig yn talu'r gyfradd gyflog byw gwirioneddol, sy’n cael ei diweddaru’n flynyddol, yn wirfoddol.
Aeth Prifysgol Abertawe ati o’i gwirfodd i gyflwyno’r cyflog byw gwirioneddol i'w holl staff cyflogedig ym mis Ebrill 2019, er budd mwy na 1,000 o'i gweithwyr ar y cyflogau isaf.
Ers hynny, mae wedi ennill ei hachrediad cyflog byw gwirioneddol gan y Living Wage Foundation (LWF) trwy dalu'r cyflog byw gwirioneddol i bob aelod o staff a gyflogir yn uniongyrchol a hefyd i'r rhai sydd wedi cael eu hisgontractio.
Mae achrediad Abertawe gan yr LWF, a ddaeth i rym ar 1 Mehefin 2020, yn galluogi'r Brifysgol i hyrwyddo ac annog polisïau ac arferion sy'n rhan bwysig o helpu ei 4,000 o staff i fyw bywydau gwaith gwerth chweil sy’n rhoi boddhad iddynt.
Yn ddiweddar, mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi dyfarnu tri chontract gwerth uchel ar gyfer Rheoli Cyfleusterau Meddal, Rheoli Cyfleusterau Caled ac Arlwyo ac mae pob un ohonyn nhw wedi cynnwys y ddarpariaeth ar gyfer cyflog byw gwirioneddol i'r holl weithwyr.
Mae cyflogwyr cyflog byw gwirioneddol achrededig yn dweud bod cael eu hachredu wedi helpu cysylltiadau rhwng staff a'u rheolwyr, wedi arwain at gynnydd mewn cymhelliant a chyfraddau cadw staff, ac mae wedi helpu i hybu enw da eu sefydliad.
Er mwyn sicrhau lefel uchel o ddealltwriaeth o'r risgiau o gaethwasiaeth fodern a masnachu mewn pobl yng nghadwyni cyflenwi Prifysgol Abertawe ac yn y sefydliad cyfan, byddwn yn parhau i godi ymwybyddiaeth o gaethwasiaeth fodern.
Mae'r timau Caffael a Chynaliadwyedd yn gweithio'n agos i ddatblygu hyfforddiant ymwybyddiaeth fewnol, gan ddefnyddio adnoddau perthnasol, ac i gryfhau polisïau a gweithdrefnau mewnol yn unol â safonau ISO.
Mae'r gweithgarwch codi ymwybyddiaeth hwn ar gyfer lefelau a rolau perthnasol yn y Brifysgol.
Trwy nodi staff sy'n rhan o'r broses brynu, darperir hyfforddiant i gynorthwyo ymwybyddiaeth, ac i helpu i nodi risgiau yn y gadwyn gyflenwi y maent yn rhan ohoni.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi ehangu'r modiwlau hyfforddiant mae'n eu cynnig ym maes Caffael.
Mae Caethwasiaeth Fodern bellach wedi'i chynnwys o dan y modiwlau hyn, gan alluogi mwy o staff Prifysgol Abertawe i gael gwell dealltwriaeth o'r gofyniad i bob cyflenwr gydymffurfio.
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi nodi Deddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern 2015 yn ein System Rheoli Amgylcheddol a'n Cofrestr Gyfreithiol ISO14001 (2015).
Bydd hyn yn:
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi sefydlu polisi a gweithdrefnau Chwythu'r Chwiban (Datgelu er Budd y Cyhoedd) er mwyn galluogi staff, myfyrwyr ac aelodau eraill o'r Brifysgol i godi pryderon sydd er budd y cyhoedd mewn perthynas â honiadau o dwyll, camymarfer, amhriodoldeb, ac ymddygiad amhriodol neu anfoesegol.
Mae'r polisi a'r gweithdrefnau yn sicrhau yr ymdrinnir â phryderon yn gadarn ac yn deg, ac nad yw aelodau sy'n codi pryderon o'r fath yn destun unrhyw fath o erledigaeth.
Cafodd y polisi ei ddiwygio ym mis Tachwedd 2021 ac mae bellach yn cynnwys y ddarpariaeth i staff y brifysgol adrodd pryderon am droseddau Deddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern o fewn cadwyn gyflenwi'r Brifysgol.
Gellir gweld polisi chwythu'r chwiban y Brifysgol yma:
Mae'r polisi hwn yn rhan annatod o'n gweithgareddau caffael ac fe'i datblygwyd mewn cydweithrediad rhwng y timau Caffael a Chynaliadwyedd.
O 1 Tachwedd 2015, mae dyletswydd ar awdurdodau cyhoeddus penodedig i hysbysu'r Swyddfa Gartref o unrhyw unigolyn yng Nghymru a Lloegr y maent yn credu ei fod wedi dioddef o gaethwasiaeth neu fasnachu pobl.
Er nad yw'r Brifysgol wedi'i rhestru fel awdurdod cyhoeddus perthnasol yn hyn o beth mae sefydliadau eraill, gan gynnwys cyrff anllywodraethol, hefyd yn cael eu hannog i gyflwyno hysbysiadau pan maent yn dod ar draws dioddefwr posibl caethwasiaeth fodern nad yw am fod yn rhan o'r mecanwaith cyfeirio cenedlaethol (NRM).
Os credir bod unigolyn mewn perygl uniongyrchol o niwed sylweddol, ffoniwch '999’.
Mae taflenni ffeithiau a phoster sy'n esbonio beth sydd angen i chi ei wneud os ydych chi'n meddwl bod rhywun wedi dioddef caethwasiaeth fodern:
Caethwasiaeth Fodern - poster Dyletswydd i Hysbysu
Caethwasiaeth Fodern - Taflen Ffeithiau Dyletswydd i Hysbysu
Yn ystod 2024/25 byddwn yn parhau i ddatblygu mesurau i sicrhau nad yw caethwasiaeth a masnachu pobl yn digwydd mewn unrhyw ran o'n busnes neu'n cadwyni cyflenwi.
Mae'r mesurau hyn yn cynnwys:
Mae Prifysgol Abertawe wedi ymrwymo i ddatblygu dealltwriaeth ac effeithiolrwydd yn y maes hwn ymhellach, gyda'r nod o wella tryloywder yn ein cadwyni cyflenwi a gweithredu mewn modd cyfrifol tuag at bobl sy'n gweithio yn y cadwyni hynny.
Bydd Prifysgol Abertawe'n parhau i asesu meysydd risg allweddol yn ein portffolio o wariant ac yn datblygu strategaethau i liniaru unrhyw risg posibl.
Cymeradwywyd y Datganiad hwn ar Gaethwasiaeth Fodern a Masnachu Pobl gan yr Athro Paul Boyle, Is-Ganghellor, ar 13 Tachwedd 2024.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/admissions:
The Admissions Office handles all applications to undergraduate and postgraduate degree schemes.
Applicants remain the responsibility of the Admissions Office up to the point of enrolment with the University.
Applications to Pre-Registration and Post-Registration Diplomas in Nursing and Midwifery, as well as the part-time degree in Nursing, are dealt with by the School of Health and Social Care .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/semesterandtermdates:
Below are the semester and term dates for most courses for the years 2024/2025 and 2025/2026.
Please use the below pods to navigate to your correct session planner based on your start/entry period.
If you are a student of The College, Swansea University please find your i mportant dates here .
If your course entry or start period falls outside of our September and January intakes, (for example Nursing’s March intake) please contact your Faculty Support Team who will be able to provide you with the relevant semester and term date information.
Swansea University is proud to offer courses with partner organisations and franchises.
If you are studying with one of our partner organisations or franchises, they will provide you with the relevant semester and term date information.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/digital-ambassadors:
My name is Mitchelle Wairimu, studying Chemical Engineering from Kenya.
I love everything to do with photography and videography, cars and travelling.
I enjoy sharing the experiences I’ve had in my life and hope to inspire someone somewhere in becoming the better versions of themselves every day.
Hi!
My name is Becka.
When I’m not filming videos for my YouTube Channel (Planetbecka) , I’m halfway up a rock face or catching a wave down in the Gower.
This opportunity will enable me to convey my energy and love for all the University has to offer to both current and prospective students.
“Hiya!
My name’s Mikaela, a computer science student who also runs a YouTube channel.
I‘m passionate about making and editing content that is focused around vlogging, being LGBT and university life.
I’m very excited to be a digital ambassador and can’t wait to make the most out of this opportunity!"
Hey guys!
My name is Wayne and I am a 3 rd year studying Maths!
I love sports, food and positive vibes!
I thoroughly enjoy life in Swansea as well as media, combining the two I hope to bring you all some great content filled with helpful information and positive energy, see you all around, stay blessed.
I'm Ola, an Economics student at Swansea Uni.
I love talking to people on Instagram about my adventures as an international student.
I am also keen on photography.
Love taking photos of vegan food, nature and people.
Can't wait to share with you some of my interests on social media.
If you follow the Swansea University social media channels be prepared to see our new team of student Digital Ambassadors gracing your screens!
The team is responsible for creating heaps of exciting content for students through video, blogs and photography.
Find out about life at Swansea University through our students eyes…
Hi everyone, my name is Hongyu (Howard).
I am a postgrad studying Communications, Creative Media Practice and PR.
I am passionate about all things food, social media, powerlifting and coffee!
If you see me on campus please say hi!
Hey!
I’m Claire, a graduate entry medicine student and love all things sports.
Being a medical student, I enjoy staying fit and using what Swansea has to offer to keep active outdoors.
I love that social media allows people to become inspired, motivate each other and find out about new things!
I’m Alpha and I’m studying Welsh at Swansea University.
I’m looking forward to sharing information about student life and the Welsh language provisions at Swansea University with others, as a Digital Ambassador.
Wah Gwaan?
(What’s Up?).
I am Lanvell Blake, an MSc.
Public Health and Health Promotion student.
I was born and raised in the biggest little dot in the world, Jamaica.
I am also a context creator and a content curator.
Interested in Caribbean culture- dance, food, music, parties?
My Digital Ambassador content will give you a taste of the Caribbean, served with sides of life in Swansea.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/graduation:
Graduation is for students, their guests, and staff, to come together to acknowledge the achievements of our students, to congratulate them and mark the end of their studies and new beginnings.
Students expected to complete their programme of study will be invited to attend.
From preparing for the big day to joining the ranks of our esteemed alumni , you'll find everything here to make your graduation celebrations memorable.
The class of Summer 2025 graduation dates are here and we are celebrating big this year with in-person ceremonies for the class of 2025.
We'll guide you through every step of the way and if you have any questions, make sure you check out our graduation FAQs or contact the graduation team .
Our graduates have some amazing stories to tell!
Listen to some of our most recent graduates below.
24 July 2025

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/our-open-days:
At our Open Days, whether on-campus or virtual, you will get the opportunity to meet academic staff and current students and discover for yourself the course modules, range of support services , teaching facilities and accommodation options that make the Swansea student experience so highly regarded.
Our event content will be useful for offer holders, prospective applicants or for researching your options.
Open Days are a great way to get a feel for the University and to find out if you would like to live and study here.
Here are 5 good reasons to attend:
Our open days welcome prospective students, and their parents/guardians.
Make the Most of Your Open Day – Here’s Everything You Need to Know
It is a good idea to attend open days as early as possible so that you can spend plenty of time reviewing your options.
These open days are most suitable for students in years 11, 12 and 13 as well as mature students.
Open days are suitable for those who have already applied to study and those who are still considering their options.
View our available residences and apply today
Discover the UK's first area of outstanding natural beauty
Find out what's available on Singleton and the Bay

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/enrolment:
Please read our enrolment, arrivals and welcome pages and pre-arrival guidelines we will be sending to your personal and University email addresses to ensure you have all the information you need to make sure the start of your year runs smoothly.
All students must enrol before they can officially study at Swansea University, including students studying at partner institutions.
When enrolling you will:
If you do not enrol you will not be able to:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/prospectus-request:
Complete the form below to request your prospectus by post.
You can also view our undergraduate prospectus and postgraduate prospectus online and download the PDF.
Are you an International Student?
Find more useful information in our International Guide .
(For a Welsh language version of the prospectus, please complete the Welsh Prospectus Request Form )
By submitting your prospectus request, please be aware that the information you have provided within your email will be used to create a record within our enquiry system.
Please read our privacy statement giving additional information on how we will process your personal data.
You can find more information detailing how we will process your personal data within our Applicant Privacy Statement .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/transfer:
It is quite common for some students to change their mind whilst at university.
You might feel that you have chosen the wrong university, or course, feel homesick and want to locate closer to home or maybe you have completed a foundation course and want to transfer at that point; whatever reason you might feel you’d like to transfer to Swansea University, we will consider your case and do our best to help you.
Transfers are usually permitted if:
Please contact the Admissions Team if you would like to discuss transferring to Swansea University, we would love to hear from you!
Visit our study page
Visit our accommodation page
Visit our Life on Campus page

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/webinar-series:
Our webinar series includes sessions on your future course and living at Swansea University.
There are also recordings of past webinars so you can catch up on everything you need to know about joining Swansea University.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/student-life/clubs-societies:
Swansea University has a strong campus-based student community.
From visual arts to poker; real ale to gospel, the Students' Union most likely has the perfect society for you - and if it doesn't, the Union makes it easy for you to start your own!
Joining a club or society is a great way to meet like-minded people and make new friends.
It can also give you valuable transferable skills for gaining future employment - especially if you take a lead role in the running of the group.
You can browse or sign up to a sports club or society at any time by visiting the Students’ Union website.
There will be lots of opportunities to find out more about what they have to offer during the welcome period.
For the full list of societies, and for more information, please visit the Students' Union Societies page .
As societies and services officer, Maddy will be supporting all of the SU’s societies, in addition to overseeing and having a say on the running of all of the Union’s services.
These services include JC’s, Cove, Costcutter, Y Stiwdio, Nursery and the Advice and Support centre.
She also sits and chairs the Society Exec Committee, which ensures all the societies are fairly represented.
Cam oversees the day-to-day functioning of all 56 sports clubs at Swansea University.
He recently completed his undergraduate degree in Business Management and since joining Swansea back in 2021 he has played Rugby League UPPA PIGS!!
Rising to be president in his last year of study.
Cam is a key point of contact between the Student Union and Sport Swansea, helping us collaboratively work on huge sporting projects like The Welsh Varsity.
Swansea Student Media is the go-to place for all Swansea University students to stay updated on everything happening on campus providing news coverage and sharing the unique experiences of being a student in Swansea.
Our three media channels: The Waterfront newspaper, Xtreme Radio, and SU-TV are run by students who write, host, and produce content for each channel.
We are always looking for new students to join our team, so if you have passion and enthusiasm, we welcome you to apply!
Visit our office in the Faraday Building for a chat or email jordan.shamsaee@swansea-union.co.uk to find out more about joining us.
For the latest updates from Swansea Student Media, make sure to check out our website !
Find out more about the Welsh Clubs and Societies here
Sport
Book your Open Day now

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/international-students/prospectus:
Haven't found a course you were looking for?
Don't worry!
We may have new courses coming soon that are currently in a development stage, and haven't been included in the International Guide.
Visit our coming soon pages to see our new additions.
When choosing a univeristy it is so important to visit the campus and tour your new potential home away from home.
Since it may be hard to take this trip in person, we are bring you a virtual tour!
Wherever you are, you can view our campus, learning facilities and much more.
Take our virtual tour
Chatting to our students is the best way to learn more about how it feels to be a student at Swansea.
Ask about the city, facilities, societies and more.
Chat to Our Students

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/what-is-ucas-extra-your-comprehensive-guide:
If you've used all five choices on your application, and you're not holding any offers, you could still find a place using UCAS Extra.
You can apply through UCAS Extra from 26 February until 4 July this year.
If you don’t have any offers after this point you will still be able to apply for a place at university through clearing .
If you’re eligible, the “Add Extra Choice” button will automatically appear in the Choices section of your UCAS tracking page.
Key Points:
You can use Extra if you originally applied to university through UCAS, have used up all your choices and have no offers.
It doesn’t matter if you didn’t receive any offers from your first five choices or chose not to accept them, if you haven’t secured a place on any courses and are not waiting for any decisions you can apply through UCAS Extra.
Medicine Applicants
At this time of year, as Medical Schools start to make decisions following interviews, we get enquiries from medical students about how our Pathways to Medicine may help them achieve their aspirations of becoming a Doctor.
On the UCAS website, you add an Extra choice in UCAS.
If you are eligible, you’ll see the ‘ Add an Extra choice ’ option in the ‘Your choices’ section.
You need to click on this link and enter the details of the university and course – UCAS will then make your application available to them.
Adding another choice using Extra is easy:
In your initial application, you can apply to five universities /courses (if you want to apply for two courses at the same university, this counts as two out of your five choices).
Once you've heard back from all of these, you can choose a firm and an insurance choice, and you decline the rest of your courses.
Yes, though you can only apply for one choice through Extra at a time, so don’t rush into applying for the first course that you’re interested in – take some time to find out more about the course and the university.
There’s no limit to the number of courses you can apply to though Extra, but you can only apply for one at a time, so you won’t be able to pick a first choice and an insurance offer like in the first round of applications.
If you haven’t heard back from a course you applied to through Extra and you’re anxious to apply for another you can withdraw an Extra application at any time, but it’s worth checking with the university or college itself to make sure an offer isn’t on its way before you do.
By accepting an offer through Extra you’re committing to that university or college and you’ll be placed with them if you meet the conditions of their offer.
If you don’t meet the conditions of their offer, you will automatically become eligible for Clearing.
You can only apply through Clearing if you have no offers , so you would have to negotiate a release from your firm choice before being able to apply through Clearing.
But this can take up to 10 days and there is no going back, so it's important to think carefully before you commit.
If you don't manage to find anything through Extra, don't panic - there may still university places available during the Clearing process which opens 5th July .
Book Now
Visit our Study pages

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate-programme-changes:
This page lists any changes to programmes which have taken place since the publication of the Prospectus.
In brackets at the end of the notices you will see the month and year where changes were approved for the programmes.
BA English Literature and French - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA Modern Languages and English Literature (June 2024).
BA English Literature and German - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA Modern Languages and English Literature (June 2024).
BA English Literature and Spanish - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA Modern Languages and English Literature (June 2024).
BA French and History - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA Modern Languages and History (June 2024).
BA German and History - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA Modern Languages and History (June 2024).
BA History and Spanish - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA Modern Languages and History (June 2024).
BA International Relations with French - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA International Relations with Modern Languages (June 2024).
BA International Relations with German - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA International Relations with Modern Languages (June 2024).
BA International Relations with Spanish - the programme title is changing for students starting in September 2025 to BA International Relations with Modern Languages (June 2024).
BEng Engineering is changing its title to BEng General Engineering from September 2023 entry onwards.
BEng Engineering with a Year Abroad is changing its title to BEng General Engineering with a Year Abroad from September 2023 entry onwards.
BEng Engineering with a Year in Industry is changing its title to BEng General Engineering with a Year in Industry from September 2023 entry onwards.
BEng Engineering with a Foundation Year is changing its title to BEng General Engineering with a Foundation Year from September 2023 entry onwards.
BSc (Hons) Applied Linguistics and English Language - title is changing to BSc (Hons) English Language and Applied Linguistics for September 2023.
BSc (Hons) Applied Linguistics and English Language with a Year Abroad - title is changing to BSc (Hons) English Language and Applied Linguistics with a Year Abroad for September 2023.
BSc (Hons) Applied Linguistics and English Language with a Year in Industry - title is changing to BSc (Hons) English Language and Applied Linguistics with a Year in Industry for September 2023.
BSc Business Management - update of modules, both compulsory and optional, to all BSc Business Management programmes and its pathways.
These will come into effect in September 2024.
Up to date course details will be found on the relevant course pages.
BSc Marketing - amendments made to modules and will apply to September 2024 entry.
Up to date course information will be on the relevant course pages.
BSc Nursing (Adult) - Carmarthen Campus - the March 2024 entry point for this programme has been suspended.
BSc Nursing (Dispersed Learning) (Adult) - the March 2024 entry point for this programme has been suspended.
BSc Nursing (Dispersed Learning) (Mental Health)- the March 2024 entry point for this programme has been suspended.
BSc Nursing (Mental Health) - the March 2024 entry point for this programme has been suspended.
BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) - the January entry point for this programme has been suspended and is no longer be available for application for entry with immediate effect.
September entry remains available (August 2024).
BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) with a Year in Industry - the January entry point for this programme has been suspended and is no longer be available for application for entry with immediate effect.
BA English - Chinese Translation and Interpreting and BA English - Chinese Translation and Interpreting with a Year in Industry - these programmes have been withdrawn and are no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (April 2024).
BSc Education and Computing and BSc Education and Computing with a Year Abroad - these programmes were suspended in 2022 but have now been fully withdrawn (April 2024).
BSc Education and Mathematics and BSc Education and Mathematics with a Year Abroad - these programmes were suspended in 2022 but have now been fully withdrawn (April 2024).
BA Medieval Studies, BA Medieval Studies with a Year Abroad, BA Medieval Studies with a Year in Industry, and BA Medieval Studies with a Foundation Year - these programmes have been withdrawn and are no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (April 2024).
BSc Social Sciences and BSc Social Sciences with a Foundation Year - these programmes were suspended in 2022 but have now been fully withdrawn (April 2024).
BSc Community Health Studies Specialist Practice Award in District Nursing - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
BSc Nursing (Dispersed Learning) (Adult ) - this programme was suspended and was not available for application for March 2025 entry (May 2024).
It has now been withdrawn and is no longer available (August 2024).
BSc Nursing (Dispersed Learning) (Mental Health ) - this programme was suspended and was not available for application for March 2025 entry (May 2024).
BSc Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
BSc Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) with Integrated V100 - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
BSc Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) with Integrated V100 - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
Graduate Diploma Community Health Studies Specialist Practice Award in District Nursing - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
Graduate Diploma Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
Graduate Diploma Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) with integrated V100 - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
Graduate Diploma Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) with integrated V100 - the programme has been withdrawn and is no longer available for application for entry with immediate effect (August 2024).
BSc Business Management (Operations and Supply) - previously suspended and has now been withdrawn from entry with immediate effect.
BSc Education and Computing - Withdrawn from 2023 entry
BSc Education and Computing with a Year Abroad - Withdrawn from 2023 entry
BSc Education and Mathematics - Withdrawn from 2023 entry
BSc Education and Mathematics with a Year Abroad - Withdrawn from 2023 entry
BA Early Childhood Studies - Withdrawn from 2023 entry.
Please note that the BA Early Childhood Studies with Early Years Practitioner Status programme continues to be available.
BA Welsh: Language, Law and Policy - Withdrawn from entry with immediate effect
BA Welsh: Language, Law and Policy with a Year Abroad - Withdrawn from entry with immediate effect
BA Welsh: Language, Law and Policy with a Year in Industry - Withdrawn from entry with immediate effect
BSc Nursing (Dispersed Learning) (Mental Health) - Withdrawn from 2023 March entry point
BSc Nursing (Dispersed Learning) (Adult) - Withdrawn from 2023 March entry point
BSc Nursing (Adult) - Withdrawn from 2023 March entry point based in Carmarthen
BSc Geography and Geographical Information Science - withdrawn from entry with immediate effect.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/teachers-and-advisers:
Swansea University offers a range of outreach services which can be arranged to fit in with school or college timetables, and are provided free of charge.
With over 50 years' experience providing higher education guidance to UK schools and colleges, Swansea University's Student Recruitment team is one of the UK's most proactive with helping prepare prospective students for the challenges, realities and benefits of university life.
For all general enquiries, please contact us at
Email: sro@swansea.ac.uk
We welcome communication in Welsh or English.
Croesewir cyfathrebu yn Gymraeg a Saesneg.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/foundation-year:
A Foundation Year is a full-time programme that lasts for one year.
This year will equip you with essential knowledge and skills in areas such as:
By joining a programme with a Foundation year, you can start your studies knowing that we are here to support you.
Your foundation year will provide a smooth transition into Higher Education, enabling you to begin your university journey at Swansea, sooner than you might think.
A Foundation Year is a programme that combines academic study with practical skills development.
On completion of a Foundation Year, you will have guaranteed progression onto an undergraduate degree.
There are several reasons you may consider undertaking a Foundation Year, which may include:
A Foundation Year provides the essential skills and knowledge you’ll need to start your desired degree.
It helps bridge any gaps if you have missing qualifications or didn’t get the grades you hoped to achieve.
Yes, while you're studying your Foundation Year, you are a full Swansea University student and have access to all the university's resources and facilities.
Yes, you will be eligible to apply for university accommodation.
This applies to both your Foundation Year and the first year of your undergraduate degree.
Yes, you can apply via UCAS.
There will be options to apply for Bachelor’s degrees that include a Foundation Year, which you can include in your choices when applying.
Yes, if you are an international student, you can apply for Foundation and International Year One routes through The College at Swansea University.
If you’re interested in a Foundation Year at Swansea University, you can:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/clearing/faqs:
At Swansea University, we're here to help you every step of the way!
Students going through Clearing can apply for University managed accommodation using their UCAS ID number.
Apply for University managed accommodation by 19th August to get a guaranteed offer of accommodation.
Find out more about Accommodation for students applying through Clearing .
We cannot discuss your child's application unless you have been nominated on their UCAS form, or have their permission.
With permission, we can advise you directly on accommodation, the kind of support they will have when they arrive, and general information about the University, Swansea and the surrounding area.
Call us on our helpline - 0808 175 3071 or visit our Information for Parents and Guardians pages for further information.
Wayne's guide to Clearing from SwanseaUni on Vimeo .
If you are already holding a place at another university and are considering Swansea, you can decline your offer and enter clearing from July 5th.
You can learn more about declining your offer or you can contact us to discuss your options.
If you apply through UCAS for September 2025 you will automatically be entered into the Clearing process if you are not accepted by your firm and insurance choices, or if you submit your application after 30 June.
If you become eligible to use Clearing an 'Add Clearing choice' choice will become available on your UCAS Hub.
Alternatively, you can check directly with your firm and insurance choice universities.
For many students, Clearing only becomes available once their results have been released and if they haven’t met the entry criteria required.
A-level results day in 2025 is Thursday 14 August.
If you haven't got a live UCAS application don’t worry, you will still be able to apply directly to Swansea University.
You can call us on 0808 175 3071 from the beginning of July and our team will talk you through the process.
If you are appealing your grades, and we have made you a clearing offer onto a foundation or other alternative course based on your current grades, please note that we may be able to move you onto your preferred course if your new grades match our entry requirements for that course.
Just let us know as soon as you learn your updated grades.
If you have them before October 15th 2025, we will be able to move you onto the original programme for which you applied.
Please note that this excludes any commissioned/clinical courses which are funded by Welsh Government.
If you haven't already applied through UCAS you can still apply to us for this September.
We advise that you call us on 0808 175 3071 in the first instance , to check that you are eligible to apply for your chosen course.
Once your eligibility is confirmed, you can apply using our online application form .
Please note that you must only apply through this method if you are not registered with UCAS this year.
Submitting a Clearing application to Swansea University is easy, just follow these four simple steps:
Step 1 – Create your account
Step 2 – Fill in your personal details, your grades (if you have them) and click submit.
If you don't have your grades, you can still register today.
Step 3 – Apply for University managed accommodation by 20th of August to get a guaranteed offer of accommodation.
Apply for accommodation now.
Step 4 - If you registered without your grades, when you've received them just log back in and submit your completed Clearing application .
Yes, you can.
You can also apply to study with us directly.
Find out more about your options on Clearing for international students' webpage

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/life-on-campus/security-and-safezone:
Swansea University offers a safe, secure and welcoming experience for students, staff and visitors.
An integral part of campus life, our friendly team of security professionals provides a 24/7 security service across our campuses.
The dedicated team brings a wealth of experience in providing security services to the University and is trained to provide a first response service including first aid.
Swansea University’s Security and First Response Service is a team of qualified and experienced security professionals from a wide variety of backgrounds ranging from military and emergency services to customer service specialists and paramedics.
Committed to the University’s Professional Services Values, we aim to facilitate a safe, secure and welcoming environment that promotes excellence, innovation and enterprise together with equality of opportunity, diversity and inclusion.
Operating 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, the team provides a wide range of services:
We are committed to working in partnership with University students and staff to continuously develop our service and our staff who, at a minimum, undertake considerable customer service training, as well as training in first aid, mental health first aid, suicide intervention training and emergency evacuation of mobility impaired individuals.
To support us in carrying out our duties, we make use of a range of tools, technology and equipment such as CCTV, intruder detection and access control systems.
We are a uniformed service.
Our uniform acts as a significant, yet cost-effective crime deterrent and also makes us easily identifiable to the community we serve, as well as partners in the emergency services – vital in emergency situations as we operate under joint protocols with local emergency services.
Safezone is a personal safety app for University students and staff which enhances our work.
We advise all University staff and students to download the Safezone app, which offers immediate access to our security team through your mobile phone.
The app is easy to download and gives you immediate access to on-campus security and our team of qualified and experienced first responders, through your mobile phone.
SafeZone lets you get help quickly in a personal emergency or if someone needs first aid or general help.
You can check in when you are working alone or in high risk areas to share your status with the response team.
You can set a timer on your check-in session that will automatically alert the team if you become unresponsive.
SafeZone also sends you notifications in the event of an emergency, so you know what to do to stay safe.
You are never tracked, until you send an alert or check-in.
1) Go to www.safezoneapp.com and follow the simple instructions for your device.
2) Once you have downloaded the free app, simply enter your email address, select Swansea University, then follow the easy on-screen instructions.
Safezone's coverage isn't limited to our two main campuses.
The app covers a number of areas our staff and students visit, which are:
Once you have downloaded the app and signed in, you can allow automatic check-in by clicking on the menu icon (hamburger button) at the top left corner of the screen.
Select Settings from the drop down menu and then click the white circle to allow automatic check-in.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/catering/places-to-eat:
We have a variety of delicious options for eating and drinking across Singleton and Bay Campus, select the outlets below to view their opening times.
To view our term dates, please click here.
Harbwr is a vibrant food hub at Swansea University offering a wide range of hot and cold meals, snacks and delicious Starbucks coffee.
Staff and students can order easily using the Time2Eat app for click-and-collect or delivery on campus.
Greggs at Fulton House brings the UK’s favourite bakery to campus, offering classic picks like the Steak Bake, Vegan Sausage Roll, and fresh coffee.
A popular stop for a quick, satisfying bite between lectures.
Café Glas is your go-to spot for Starbucks coffee on campus, alongside a great selection of sandwiches, salads, and snacks.
Perfect for a relaxed catch-up or a study break with your favourite brew.
Tortilla at Fulton House serves up fresh, flavour-packed Mexican food, including burritos, tacos, and bowls made your way.
It’s a student favourite for a quick, tasty lunch with a spicy kick.
Swansea's premier arts centre.
📅 Open for events only
The coffee shop at Welsh National Pool Swansea offers everything from Starbucks coffee to fresh sandwiches, salads, and snacks.
It’s the ideal place to recharge after a swim or grab a quick bite on the go.
📅 Monday - Friday 🕐 7am-10pm 📅 Saturday-Sunday 🕐 9am-10pm
The Hideaway at Bay Campus is a vibrant social space featuring a brand-new bar and a variety of hot meals and Starbucks coffee.
Staff and students can order easily using the Time2Eat app for a quick and convenient experience.
The College at Bay Campus brings the beloved COSTA Coffee experience right to you, serving expertly crafted coffees alongside tasty snacks and light meals.
Subway at Swansea University offers fresh, made-to-order sandwiches with a variety of fillings and breads to suit every taste.
Tafarn Tawe is the student pub on Bay Campus, bringing you everything a student needs for a good social time.
The new TukTuk at Swansea University serves up Ferrari’s coffee alongside a tasty selection of sandwiches and snacks.
It’s a convenient and friendly spot for staff and students to grab a quick bite on the go.
Enjoy our fully licensed bar at your event, whilst taking in the incredible views across the Bay.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-options:
Choosing where to live is one of the most exciting parts of university life.
At Swansea University, we offer a wide range of accommodation options to suit every lifestyle, budget, and preference.
Whether you want to wake up to beach views or be surrounded by city buzz, you'll find the perfect place to call home.
Living in university accommodation isn’t just about having a place to stay — it’s about becoming part of a vibrant, welcoming community .
Imagine living right on the beach!
Bay Campus offers direct seafront access and stunning views.
It’s the hub for Engineering, Management, and the Computational Foundry, but students from any course are welcome as you have frequent, direct bus services between campuses.
Accommodation options include twin rooms, en-suites, premium en-suites, accessible rooms, and 1 & 2-bedroom flats.
Plus, regular buses make it easy to travel between campuses.
Nestled in lush parkland and just a stroll from the beach, Singleton Park Campus is home to the Schools of Culture & Communication, Social Sciences, Psychology, Health & Social Care, Biosciences, Law, and the Medical School.
Live close to lectures, sports facilities, Singleton Hospital, and Swansea Bay.
Choose from en-suite rooms, standard rooms with shared bathrooms, and catered options.
Singleton Park offers en-suite or standard rooms (with shared bathrooms).
Some residences also include a catering allowance .
Beck House, or Tŷ Beck as it is known in Welsh, comprises 6 large Victorian houses with a mixture of shared, ensuite and self-contained accommodation.
Situated in the Uplands area of Swansea, 1.5 miles from Singleton Park Campus, Beck House has shops, bars, cafés and restaurants all located within walking distance.
There is also a free car park at Beck House.
Beck House is a small and friendly site that is a popular and affordable option for mature students, postgraduate students, healthcare science/medical students, international students, families and couples.
With a serene view over the River Tawe, true Swansea student accommodation is an idyllic setting for university life in the city.
Located just a short trip from both campuses, on Morfa Road in the City Centre , true Student offers ensuite rooms in flats of 5 and 6 and private studio style rooms with a kitchenette and luxury ensuite bathroom.
Studio rooms are available for dual occupancy , so these are a great option for those wanting to live with a loved one (please note, both tenants must be full time students).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/register-for-email-updates/undergraduate:
To receive updates, including Open Day information, newsletters, and more, please complete your details below.
Your data will be used for the purposes of dealing with your enquiry and sending you relevant information about Swansea University.
If you wish to remove yourself from Swansea University's database please contact Admissions Office, Swansea University, Swansea, SA2 8PP or email study@swansea.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/study/student-life/chat-to-our-students/unibuddy:
Sign up to our Unibuddy platform to connect with our friendly student ambassadors – they’re here to help with any questions you might have about student life at Swansea.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/student-loans-and-grants:
A majority of UK students will meet the cost of their Tuition Fees and living expenses by applying for financial support online via their relevant Student Finance websites.
What you are entitled to will depend upon your individual circumstances, where you live, what you are studying, and at what level.
If you have been granted leave and rights in the UK, including leave granted through the Afghanistan or Ukraine schemes, please contact us for further information.
Please note that the information provided will be as a guide, and students are advised to contact their funding provider to confirm their eligibility and entitlement to student finance.
Students undertaking modules as an external student cannot access funding Student Finance.
We also have specific funding information for students looking to study:
For information on postgraduate funding, please refer to our Postgraduate Fees & Funding pages
Student loans do need to be repaid, more details about the term of these repayments can be found on our Student Loan Repayment page.
You may also be entitled to additional funding or support depending on your circumstances, please visit the relevant pages for more information on Student Plus .
Please visit our dedicated webpage if you require more information about Sharia Compliant Finance .
Remember - There are Scholarships and Bursaries available.
They are provided by Swansea University to promote excellence and widening participation.
We appreciate that loans from other sources may be the only suitable option left available for some students to continue with their studies.
Please see our Alternative Sources of Funding page for more information, please note this will take you to our Post Graduate finance page however some sources of funding may be available to Undergraduates.
We must stress that we have no affiliation with commercial loan companies and encourage all students to explore the options above before considering sources of finance elsewhere.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/how-to-fill-out-your-ucas-application:
The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) is a UK-based organisation which operates the application process for British universities.
Services provided by UCAS include online application portals, search tools and free information and advice to students considering higher education.
If you are in the UK and want to apply to study at a British university, you will have to use the UCAS application form.
You will need to register and make the application through UCAS’s online system, Apply.
This is a ten-step online form which can only be submitted once per cycle.
When you have decided which course(s) you want to apply for, you can register and make an online application.
There are different applications depending on what type of course you want to study.
You will need to register with UCAS, and the website will take you through each stage of the application form step by step.
UCAS charges an application fee of £28.50 for up to five university choices.
When do UCAS applications open?
For 2025 entry applicants, you can pay and submit your application from the 3rd September 2024.
When do UCAS applications close?
This deadline varies, as some courses have different deadlines.
The deadline for 2025 entry to most medicine, dentistry, and veterinary courses is 15th October 2024.
For the majority of other courses, the deadline is 29th January 2025.
If you miss the 29th January deadline, you can still apply until the 30th of June but courses may have been filled.
You will need to fill in information about your: Personal details Finance Course choices Education Work Experience References You will also need to write your personal statement.
Your personal statement supports your application to study at university or college and is a great way to showcase your personal qualities, skills and passions.
Read our personal statement guide for tips and advice to help you through this process.
Are my UCAS references important?
Your UCAS reference could mean the difference between an acceptance or a rejection, so it is worth making sure you get it right!
Your referee should comment on your ability, attitude and approach to learning.
They may also mention your activities and work experience, so make sure they are aware of everything you do.
They will also list any predicted grades to help university staff work out whether you will cope academically on the course.
Talk to your referee beforehand to get all your key points across.
Who can be my UCAS referee?
The reference should be written by someone who knows you well in a professional or academic sense.
If you are at school or college, this is likely to be a teacher, tutor or head of sixth form.
If you left education some time ago, ask an employer, supervisor or trainer.
You shouldn’t ask family or friends – if you do, your application may be cancelled.
Can I send my UCAS application with a reference?
Everyone needs a reference.
If you are unable to get a reference you must get permission from your chosen universities or colleges before you submit your application.
When you register to apply through UCAS you will be allocated a ten-digit number, this is your “personal ID”.
This number will be included on any correspondence you receive from UCAS.
Once you have submitted your application you can track the progress by logging into the UCAS system called your UCAS Hub.
You'll be able to sign in at any time with the Personal ID you received in your welcome email, along with the password you used when applying.
It is a good idea to get your application in early as some universities start to make offers from September.
All applicants should hear back within three weeks of applying.
Applicants should log into UCAS to check the status of their application.
When your chosen university has seen your application, your status will change from ‘submitted’ to ‘acknowledged’ on the UCAS website.
Your chosen university may need to interview you to further establish whether you are right for the course.
When a decision has been made on your application, you will receive notification that something has changed on your application form.
You will either have an offer or your application will be marked as unsuccessful.
You can accept any conditional or unconditional offer on the website.
UCAS Tariff points is a way of measuring the relative value of all post-16 qualifications in the UK.
The UCAS Tariff assigns a numerical score to the possible grades that can be achieved in each type of qualification.
This applies to all qualifications that are on the Tariff.
However, lots of Universities do not use the Tariff, you should speak to your teacher or adviser about your qualifications and university entry requirements.
How many UCAS points do I have?
You can calculate how many points you have with the Tariff calculator on the UCAS website.
How are UCAS points calculated?
A points total is achieved by converting qualifications such as A-levels (and many others) into points, making it simpler for course providers to compare applicants.
If you have met and exceeded the conditions of your conditional firm offer, you may be able to use Adjustment to find an alternative course.
This means you can try to find another place at another university without losing your original offer.
Everyone whose place has been confirmed can register for Adjustment.
If you go through Adjustment, you will need to register, research, discuss and agree on the details with the university.
They will then send a confirmation to UCAS.
Adjustment is open from A-Level results day until the end of August.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/coming-soon:
We thought you might like to see the degree programmes we are developing, as we continually seek to provide courses that reflect the needs of our students and our graduates’ employers.
While you cannot apply to these programmes yet, if you are interested in studying one of the degree programmes being developed please complete and submit the form for that programme and we will let you know more details (modules, fees etc.) when they are ready and when you can apply.
Please note that on some occasions the programmes will change title during the development process, or may not be developed.
Biomedical Science is the scientific study of biological tissues related to the diagnosis and treatment of various conditions that affect people’s quality of life.
It is a well-recognised and valued healthcare science profession that encompasses the application of scientific principles to support diagnosis, treatment and therapeutic drug monitoring across the entire life span.
The aim of the BSc in Biomedical Science is to equip students with key biomedical technical skills and fundamental scientific knowledge to produce graduates who are analytical, innovative, creative, safe, confident, and reflective scientists, who will be able to embrace change, develop leadership skills, and become consumers and users of research evidence.
The Institute of Biomedical Science’s (IBMS) long-term workforce plan has identified a strong and growing need for qualified professionals in this field, promising strong employment prospects for graduates.
Please note this BSc course does not have IBMS Accreditation.
This programme content will be informed by the requirements set out by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) and the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) Benchmark Statements for Biomedical Sciences.
The BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course will explore a range of biomedical subject areas, including:
The BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science (with placement) course option will include a year in industry option, with an opportunity to apply for a year-long placement within an IBMS Accredited Training Laboratory.
Students will also have the option to access an industrial placement year to gain experience in a non-NHS setting or have a study abroad placement year.
Please complete the form below so that we can send you more information about this degree programme when it becomes available e.g.
modules, fees, start date etc.
If you wish to remove yourself from Swansea University's database please contact Admissions Office, Swansea University, Swansea, SA2 8PP or email study@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/entry-requirements:
Qualifications in the UK are currently undergoing significant reform; Swansea University has carefully considered the information available so far on the changes and a statement has been published which can be read here - Qualification Reform Statement PDF .
Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate - applicants will be able to meet our requirements from three A-levels or two A-levels and the Skills Challenge Certificate.
Extended Project Qualification - applicants predicted grade B or above in EPQ will receive an offer with a one-grade reduction.
e.g., an offer of AAB would become ABB plus EPQ B.
We encourage applicants to describe EPQ research within the UCAS personal statement, particularly when relevant to their intended course and/or career.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering:
Studying at the School of Aerospace, Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering is an exciting journey where you will have the opportunity to explore both traditional and modern-day engineering principles and elements to understand how things work, how to improve on them, solve problems, and develop cutting-edge technology.
With the current climate and turbulent environment in today’s industrial and business world, more and more organisations are dependent on engineers and technical specialists.
Virtual Tour
Scholarships
Our Research
Current Students
Science and Engineering Swansea University Bay Campus Fabian Way Swansea SA1 8EN
Tel: +44 (0)1792 295514 Email: fse-reception@swansea.ac.uk
News | Events

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics:
Studying at the School of Biosciences, Geography and Physics , you will explore the intricacies of the remarkable natural world we live in, but also how delicate and how everything in our physical and social world is interconnected and can be enormously affected by human impact, social changes, and environmental shifts.
Environmental Sciences, ranked Top 250 in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023.
School of Biosciences, Geography and Physics Swansea University Singleton Park Swansea SA2 8PP
We are open 10am-4pm, Monday to Friday.
Please get in touch with any questions or queries, or chat to us directly using our live chat function.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication:
At the School of Culture and Communication, we champion student employability and work with a number of industry partners to allow our students to gain the theoretical and practical experience to succeed in their chosen field of study.
Swansea University, Singleton Park, Swansea, SA2 8PP
P rospective Students:
Make an Undergraduate enquiry
Make a Postgraduate enquiry
Current Students: https://myuni.swansea.ac.uk/myunihub/

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences:
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Swansea University Bay Campus Fabian Way Swansea SA1 8EN

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care:
We draw together the disciplines of health, nursing, midwifery and social care,  to offer a wide range of courses that make a difference to people's lives and society as a whole.
Our students tell us that our enthusiasm and passion motivates and inspires them to work hard, think differently and succeed.
Students can draw on the expertise of world-leading researchers and educators and are supported and encouraged to become the next generation of nurses,  healthcare scientists and health professionals.
Advance your career in an exciting and dynamic environment with a close community of students and first class facilities.
We want our students to make a difference today and be the future ...
To apply for the below courses you must have an appropriate professional registration and either already hold an undergraduate degree in a suitable subject or have appropriate work experiences in a specialist area; please see course pages for clarification.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law:
Focus on law and choose from a wide variety of optional modules to shape your own degree, with over forty to choose from in your second and third years.
Gain a practical understanding of criminality, victimisation and the criminal justice system combined with a law degree.
Focus on aspects of business and commercial law and specialise in areas including trade law, media law, commercial sales, and employment law.
A law degree that combines the study of the legal system in England and Wales with key aspects of national and international politics.
Develop knowledge of our legal system and the wider global society, by combining a law degree with an exploration into the relationships between nations, their leaders and their corporations.
Focus on law and shape your own degree, with a wide variety of optional modules to choose from in your second and third years
An intensive two-year law degree that is designed specifically for non-law graduates of Canadian universities.
A law degree taught over two years for non-law graduates from outside the UK.
Our LLB Single Honours Law degree with an additional year spent in practice, with an internship in a legal setting.
This degree provides an understanding of the UK legal system, combined with knowledge of crime and criminal behaviour, and a year-long internship in a legal setting.
Study the LLB Business Law in Practice to earn a specialised business law degree with a dedicated year spent at an internship in a legal setting.
Combine a law degree with an exploration of national and international politics, along side a year-long internship in a legal setting.
A law degree that brings together in-depth study of our legal system with an exploration of key aspects of international relations, along with a year spent at an internship in a legal setting.
Undertake a Foundation Year, followed by an LLB focused solely on law, with a range of optional modules enabling you to shape your own learning.
Complete a Foundation Year, followed by an LLB that combines the study of criminality and criminal policy with an in-depth coverage of the laws of England and Wales.
A four-year programme, beginning with a Foundation Year, which is followed by a law degree that also look at key aspects of national and international politics.
Complete your Foundation Year, followed by a law degree that combines the study of the legal system in England and Wales with key aspects of international relations, giving you a global perspective on key issues.
Undertake a Foundation Year, then take on a 4-year LLB programme, which includes a year spent in practice with a law-focused internship.
Study a Foundation Year, followed by a 4-year LLB programme, combining the study of criminal justice with an understanding of the laws of England and Wales, and an additional year spent at a legal internship.
Get yourself ready for your LLB with a Foundation Year, followed by a 4-year LLB focusing on the law and national and international politics, with a year spent at an internship in a legal setting.
Prepare for your LLB with a Foundation Year, that’ll be followed by a 4-year programme that focuses on our legal system and aspects of international relations, also including a year spent at an internship in a legal setting.
An innovative undergraduate programme, specialising in aspects of both maritime and commercial law, delivering in partnership with Dalian Maritime University (DMU).
Hillary Rodham Clinton School of Law, Swansea University, Singleton Park, Swansea, SA2 8PP Tel: +44 (0)1792 205678
P rospective Students: Make an undergraduate enquiry International students contact our International Team
Current Students: My Uni Hub
undergraduate students
at the School of Law
Find out about the funding available to you

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som:
The School of Management at Swansea University specialises in undergraduate degrees across a broad range of subject areas.
Alongside providing innovative teaching and practical opportunities in the working world, we offer flexibility in our programmes so that you can tailor your degree to your interests and career aspirations.
School of Management, Swansea University, Bay Campus, Swansea, SA1 8EN
Current Students:
https://myuni.swansea.ac.uk/myunihub/

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci:
The School of Mathematics and Computer Science at Swansea University is based at our outstanding Computational Foundry on the stunning beach-fronted Bay Campus.
This £32.5 million world-class facility provides the most up-to-date, high-quality teaching and research facilities, as well as offering space for industry partners to collaborate with us, test new ideas and for students and researchers to work on real-world problems in an inspiring environment.
School of Mathematics and Computer Science Swansea University Bay Campus Fabian Way Swansea SA1 8EN

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine:
We are as passionate about our subjects as the students who chose to join us.
Students can draw on the expertise of world-leading researchers and educators and are supported and encouraged to become the next generation of medics, life-scientists, health professionals, innovators, educators, researchers and leaders.
Applied Medical Sciences is one of our Pathways to Medicine providing you with the foundation to progress to Graduate Entry Medicine.
Our Medical Biochemistry BSc is one of our Pathways to Medicine providing you with the foundation to progress to Graduate Entry Medicine:
Our Medical Genetics BSc is one of our Pathways to Medicine providing you with the foundation to progress to Graduate Entry Medicine:
Medical Pharmacology is one of our Pathways to Medicine providing you with the foundation to progress to Graduate Entry Medicine.
Population Health and Medical Sciences is one of our Pathways to Medicine providing you with the foundation to progress to Graduate Entry Medicine.
This accelerated, four-year medical degree follows an innovative, integrated spiral curriculum designed to reflect the way in which clinicians approach patients and how patients present to doctors.
Modern Healthcare is delivered by an interdisciplinary team and increasingly Pharmacists are delivering enhanced and new clinical services across healthcare settings.
Our Pharmacy Degree recognises these new and advanced roles and integrates sciences and practice to prepare students to meet the challenges of the changing face of Pharmacy.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/psychology:
Our British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited degrees will give you expert scientific training in the relationship between the mind, brain, and behaviour.
You will study the psychological and neuro-scientific processes that underpin activities such as thinking, reasoning, memory and language, learn about the effects of brain injury, and explore ways to improve health-related behaviour.
We offer a range of Psychology degree including 3 year BSc or 4 year with foundation and a variety of Joint Honours programs bringing together Psychology, Sociology, Criminology and Education.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences:
The School of Social Sciences at Swansea University offers undergraduate degrees across a broad range of subject areas.
Through innovative teaching and practical opportunities in the working world, we empower our students to attain their career aspirations.
School of Social Sciences, Swansea University, Singleton Park, Swansea, SA2 8PP

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-accounting-finance-foundation-year:
International students that have already submitted a UCAS application should apply via our Clearing System.
Have you already submitted a UCAS application?
International students may also apply through UCAS .
Clearing Help and Support 0808 175 3071
Are you looking for an Accounting and Finance degree which will give you a competitive edge?
The BSc Accounting and Finance with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University will do just that.
If you don’t achieve the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Accounting and Finance course, the BSc Accounting and Finance with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in both accounting and finance, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Accounting degree within the School of Management.
The four year course is designed for students with an interest in both accounting and finance- including management accounting, financial accounting, and corporate finance.
If you want a career at one of the ‘big four’ accounting firms ( Deloitte, EY, KPMG or PwC ), or see yourself as a finance manager, stockbroker or investment banker, the BSc Accounting and Finance degree will equip you with everything you need.
As an accounting and finance specialist, you will play a fundamental role in the running of a business – big or small.
Managing budgets and taxes, financial reporting, completing audits - all are critical in ensuring that a business or organisation runs as effectively and successfully as possible.
The Foundation Year is taught at The College, located next to the School of Management.
Once you complete this year, you will move to the School of Management building for the remainder of your studies.
*Based on the average positivity score for question 1 - 26 NSS 2025
The BSc Accounting and Finance with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
This can give you a real advantage and broaden your horizons when it comes to seeking employment.
Your first year (the Foundation Year) is taught at The College, located next to the School of Management and your final three years are taught within the School of Management itself.
Providing an excellent grounding in both areas, our course offers significant freedom in your final two years of study, to choose from a range of optional modules to suit your developing interests.
With pioneering research and industry knowledge at the forefront of our teaching, our expert academics will help you develop the skills that are essential to excelling in a career within the accounting and finance sector.
During your time with us, you will also have full access to our cutting edge video and digital content creation suite and state-of-the-art facilities at the School of Management.
As well as setting you up for a career as an accounting and finance specialist, within a business or organisation, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
This is particularly useful for those students wanting to become independent accountants or financial advisors.
As a graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any desirable organisation.
Whether your target is EY, Deloitte, KPMG or PwC, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
Your next step could lie in any of these roles:
Early studies give you a solid foundation in accounting, finance, statistics, strategy and management.
In later years you can focus your studies by selecting from different specialist module choices according to your chosen career, as detailed below.
We're currently reviewing our curriculum to enhance your learning experience and embed skills that will benefit your future career.
This means that some modules may be subject to change.
Students choose 120 credits from the following:
Choose Exactly 15 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students should select 15 credits from the following list for Semester 1.
Optional modules will be offered subject to demand, availability and timetable constraints.
Students should note and check BEFORE selecting whether modules have any special requirements, such as pre-requisites, co-requisites or incompatibles.
NOTE: Pre-reqs need to have been taken in a previous year and co-reqs have to be selected in the current year
NOTE : Students should select 15 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
None found.
Choose Maximum Of 105 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students must study at least 90 credits of accounting or finance subjects.
Within the 90 credits, a minimum of 15 credits should be selected from finance modules.
Students should be mindful to ensure that they balance module credits across the two semesters, aiming for 60 credits in each semester.
Choose Minimum Of 15 credits from the following Modules:
Within the 90 credits, a minimum of 15 credits must be selected from finance modules.
This will allow students to choose the maximum ACCA exemptions.
Choose Maximum Of 30 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students have free choice to select 30 credits of options from anywhere is the School catalogue:  students may pick a year 3 module from the Business Management or Economics module list, subject to completing the necessary pre-requisite and/or co-requisite modules.
We have vacancies across a variety of subjects for September 2025 entry – please call our Clearing Helpline on 0808 175 3071.
We also welcome enquiries from candidates researching starting a course in 2026 - please see our Entry Requirements Page to find out typical offer ranges or get in touch by email or by telephone 01792 295111.
Are you an international student, waiting on exam results or an English Language test score?
If so, we'd encourage you to apply through our free and easy to use direct application system , as you may be eligible for a conditional offer.
At Swansea, you will benefit from a high-quality, research-informed
    education that combines a range of effective and inclusive teaching methods,
    carefully tailored to suit the needs of your course.
Most courses are taught in person, on campus , giving you the opportunity to
    actively engage with other students, academic staff, and the wider
    university community.
You can expect a mix of lectures, seminars, workshops, and practical sessions -
    including laboratory work, skills training, or studio-based teaching where
    relevant to your discipline.
These sessions are designed to encourage active
    participation, collaboration, and the development of both subject-specific
    and transferable skills.
Digital learning tools are also used to enhance your
    learning experience.
These may include:
This approach enables you to engage with and review content at your own pace
    while benefiting from the structure and support of in-person teaching.
This course may offer some modules taught through the medium of Welsh or
    bilingually for students who consider themselves to be fluent Welsh
    speakers.
For more details on the provision available see the Welsh
    Provision expander below.
N.B If you are an international student studying with a Student Route
        Visa, please note that your timetabled activity, along with any
        additional supervisory activity (with Swansea University staff present)
        will take place on campus.
In line with UKVI protocol, these sessions
        will be monitored and data made available on request.
Unfortunately, there is currently no formal Welsh-medium provision on this course.
If you would like to let us know
that you are interested in pursuing an element of your course through the medium of Welsh, please email astudio@abertawe.ac.uk to indicate your interest along with your year of entry and
we will do our best to see what is possible.
Whilst this course does not offer academic content delivered in Welsh, the University can provide you with the
following, and Academi Hywel Teifi is here to support
you:
To learn more about the above and all the opportunities available to you through the medium of Welsh, visit Academi Hywel Teifi's undergraduate pages .
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).* *subject to module selections
What is an accredited course?
One that has been approved by a relevant professional body as meeting its quality standards.
It highlights a close link between industry and your course, bringing cutting-edge real-world practice into your studies.
Counting towards professional qualifications and registrations, accredited courses can help fast-track you in your chosen career path.
What are the benefits of Professional Accreditations?
- Get a head start: Professionally accredited degrees will exempt you from specific early-stage professional exams/qualifications meaning you get a kick-start in your career.
- Support: Sign up for a student membership and start taking advantage of professional body career support as well as connections with peers and experts.
It looks good on your CV and helps prepare you for employment.
NOTE: For many professions, studying an accredited course is only the first step to becoming fully qualified.
You can check with the relevant professional bodies for other specific requirements.
For more information see our Professional Accreditation page.
You will be taught by a team of experienced academics from research, academic and industry backgrounds.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in accounting and/or finance sectors.
You can find out more about our academic expertise on our staff pages .
Fees for full-time undergraduate UK students on classroom based foundation programmes will increase from Year 1, and in subsequent years, to the maximum regulated fee level set by the Welsh Government.
Fees for full time Undergraduate International students will increase by 3% for each subsequent year of study.
You can find further information of your fee costs on our tuition fees page .
You may be eligible for funding to help support your study.
To find out about scholarships, bursaries and other funding opportunities that are available please visit the University's scholarships and bursaries page .
Current students: You can find further information of your fee costs on our tuition fees page .
To find out about scholarships, bursaries and other funding opportunities that are available please visit the University's scholarships and bursaries page.
Academi Hywel Teifi at Swansea University and the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol offer a number of generous scholarships and bursaries for students who wish to study through the medium of Welsh or bilingually.
For further information about the opportunities available to you, visit the Academi Hywel Teifi Scholarships and Bursaries page.
Access to your own digital device/the appropriate IT kit will be essential during your time studying at Swansea University.
Access to wifi in your accommodation will also be essential to allow you to fully engage with your programme.
See our dedicated webpages for further guidance on suitable devices to purchase, and for a full guide on getting your device set up .
You may face additional costs while at university, including (but not limited to):
Swansea Employability Academy (SEA) will support you at each stage of your career journey helping you build a bright future.
Our career support services include:
We also provide help and advice for Swansea University Alumni up to two years after you graduate.
The School of Management also has a dedicated in-house Employability team offering additional support.
During your time with us, you’ll have the chance to:
As well as subject specific support by college teaching staff and your
    personal tutor, the Centre for Academic
    Success provides courses, workshops and one-to-one support in areas
such as:
In addition, if you have a Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD), disability,
    mental health or medical condition, the Centre for Academic Success have
    Specialist Tutors to support your learning, working alongside the Disability Office and Wellbeing Service to support all your needs and
    requirements whilst studying at Swansea University.
To learn more about study abroad, visit our Go Global
    webpages .
Enrolment on a programme
    with a semester/year abroad does not guarantee you a semester/year abroad placement.
Spaces
    are limited and subject to a competitive selection process.
In the event you do not secure a
    semester/year abroad placement, you will be transferred to the standard variant of your degree
    scheme without a semester or year abroad.
International summer programmes are open to students from all schools.
Programmes typically
    range from 2 to 6 weeks, across destinations such as Sri Lanka, South Korea, Fiji, Bali,
    the USA and across Europe.
For more information about programmes and eligibility visit our Summer Abroad webpages .
UK applicants: Apply now via Clearing
For further information please see our Guide to Clearing .
International applicants: If you don't have all of your results yet, apply using our free direct application system and we'll consider making you a conditional offer.
Be sure to check our application deadlines before you submit.
EU applicants: visa and immigration information is available and will be regularly updated on our Information for EU students page .
We recommend that you submit your application to our courses as early as you can in advance of our application
deadlines.
Courses will close earlier than the application deadlines listed if all available places are filled.
You can
find further information on our Application Deadlines webpage.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a Year In Industry, in the UK or overseas*, giving valuable workplace experience.
The University advocates for only paid placements which on average have a salary of over £20,000.
Unpaid placements are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Although securing a placement is the responsibility of the student, we work with a number of organisations who provide a range of placement opportunities.
Students are also supported throughout their application journey with advice, guidance and additional resources.
If you are unable to secure a placement by the end of the second year of your studies, you will transfer onto the equivalent degree programme.
*overseas locations are dependent on VISA restrictions per country
for those wanting to study at the School of Management

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-accounting-finance:
Become a highly skilled, career-ready graduate when you study our multi-accredited, BSc Accounting and Finance degree.
Not only will you get a head start to achieving Chartered Accountant status with relevant, global accrediting bodies - ACCA , ICAEW and CIMA , but you will also study a broad range of topics from Management Accounting and Financial Accounting to Corporate Finance.
Our course is designed to ensure you are taught the most relevant, cutting-edge topics - which will help you stand out in the job market.
You will gain the conceptual, technical, and practical skills needed to thrive in today’s world of accounting and finance; and will have the opportunity to complete modules designed to guide you through the entire process of setting up a computerised accounting system, learn about data analysis, and understand the role of Accounting and Finance for sustainability.
These invaluable practical skills paired with sector expertise will give you a serious edge when you graduate from Swansea University.
Accounting and Finance at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad or work in industry for a year.
This can give you a real competitive advantage and will broaden your horizons when it comes to seeking employment.
Your Accounting and Finance experience will benefit from a wide selection of optional modules in later years of study, allowing you to shape the degree towards your career goals.
The teaching at Swansea is informed by research, and our staff have hands-on experience in theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
As well as setting you up for a career as an accounting and finance specialist, within a business or organisation, we also have support services available to help you become an entrepreneur and start your own business.
This is particularly useful for students wanting to become independent accountants or financial advisors.
During your time with us, you will also have full access to our dedicated employability services and state-of-the-art facilities at the School of Management.
As an Accounting and Finance graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any desirable organisation.
Our BSc Accounting and Finance degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) *subject to module selections*
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise are linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up-to-date information and develop the skills required for a career in the accountancy sector.
Find out more about our academic staff by visiting our staff profiles.
Fees for full time undergraduate UK students may increase in subsequent years of study in line with the maximum regulated fee level set by the Welsh Government
The School of Management also offers a Developing Futures Scholarship for international undergraduate students who have an offer to study at the School of Management.
The scholarship is to the value of up to £2,000 for one academic year, which is automatically deducted from tuition fees.
The scholarship package encourages students to develop a number of professional skills whilst working with the School throughout the academic year.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-accounting-foundation-year:
Are you looking for an Accounting degree, which will give you a competitive edge?
The BSc Accounting with a Foundation Year at Swansea University will do just that.
If you don’t achieve the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Accounting course, the BSc Accounting with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in accounting before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Accounting degree within the School of Management.
If you want a career at one of the ‘big four’ accounting firms ( Deloitte, EY, KPMG or PwC ), or if see yourself as an in-house accountant for a government body, small or large business, not-for-profit organisation, or individual, the BSc Accounting degree will equip you with everything you need.
As an accountant, you will play a fundamental role in the running of a business – big or small.
The BSc Accounting with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Our wide selection of optional modules, which you can choose in your final two years of study, will allow you to shape the degree towards your career goals.
Teaching at Swansea is partly informed by research, and our staff have hands-on experience of theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
As well as setting you up for a career as an accountant within a business or organisation, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
This is particularly useful for those students wanting to become independent accountants.
Choose Exactly 30 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students should select 30 credits from the following list for Semester 1.
NOTE : Students should select 30 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
NOTE : Students need to select exactly 30 credits from the following list for Semester 1.
NOTE: Pre-reqs need to have been taken in a previous year and co-reqs have to be selected in the current year.
NOTE : Students have to select exactly 30 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).*
*subject to module selections
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in the accountancy sector.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-accounting:
Our BSc Accounting course is fully designed with your successful career in accounting in mind.
Practical skills, combined with pioneering, research-based teaching, will give you the real-world know-how backed by essential knowledge, to become a sought-after graduate - for jobs in accounting firms as well as accounting roles within any organisation, across any sector.
Our multi-accredited degree programme will give you a head-start to Chartered Accountant status with global accrediting bodies - ACCA , ICAEW and CIMA -  something that makes you stand out to employers and opens up more career opportunities.
Our vast selection of modules, which have been designed alongside industry, will give you the opportunity to study everything from Investments and Management Accounting to Innovation Management and Economics for Accounting and Finance.
Accounting at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad or work in industry for a year.
Your Accounting experience will also benefit from a wide selection of optional modules in later years of study, allowing you to shape the degree towards your career goals.
As well as setting you up for a career as an accounting expert, within a business or organisation, we also have support services available to help you become an entrepreneur and start your own business.
As an Accounting graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any desirable organisation.
Our BSc Accounting degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).*
Find out more about our academic staff by visiting our staff profiles .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-actuarial-science-with-foundation-year:
If you enjoy mathematics and want to apply your knowledge to solve real-world business problems, then the actuarial science programme at Swansea University is an excellent route to meet your goals.
An actuary is a highly trained and influential business professional who uses advanced mathematical modelling and business understanding to analyse future risks.
Students who pursue this course will gain a solid foundation the first year in mathematics, business, and study skills.
They will be prepared for greater success in the mathematics and management modules that follow.
The programme is accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA), so programme modules in mathematics, accounting, finance and economics are aligned with the IFoA professional examinations.
Graduates can obtain up to six exemptions from IFoA professional examinations, which is a tremendous head start toward obtaining actuarial employment and succeeding as an actuary.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned business professionals with many years of industry experience including Dr Jafar Ojra , Senior Lecturer in Accounting and Chartered Global Management Accountant.
Find out about our Mathematics Scholarships
7th in the UK (Guardian University 2025)
13th in the UK for Teaching Quality (Guardian University 2025)
Top 201-250 in the world (QS World University Rankings 2025)
Actuarial Science at Swansea University is a highly regarded degree that combines the mathematics and management content needed for an intriguing and rewarding career in risk management.
The Swansea University Actuarial Science programme is accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA), so the successful graduate can gain exemptions for up to six IFoA professional exams.
The career of an actuary is regularly voted among the top three job choices based on intellectual stimulation, impact, and financial reward.
Resources are available at https://actuaries.org.uk/qualify/become-an-actuary concerning opportunities for actuaries and the path toward becoming an actuary.
A Swansea graduate with exemption from several IFoA professional examinations has a distinct competitive advantage to begin an actuarial career in insurance, risk management, or investment and finance.
You might start with a role in financial modelling and statistical interpretation then progress steadily toward becoming a technical leader and business manager.
What our students say about Mathematics
Take a tour of our facilities
You will study the following compulsory programme of modules in order to build a strong core of mathematics with ample actuarial and business content.
International/EU Students: Your Foundation Year will be taught by The College and your modules will be different to those below.
You can find more information on the Undergraduate Pathways here.
NOTE : MAWXXX modules are for students who wish to study part of their course through the medium of Welsh.
Choose Exactly 0 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : You may choose to make no selection in this section.
There are opportunities for Welsh speakers to study some elements of this course through the medium of Welsh but
there is not yet enough provision to reach 40 credits in each year.
Academi Hywel Teifi is here to support you throughout your
time at Swansea University.
We can offer you:
You will be taught by our leading academic staff working in areas which include stochastics, algebra, topology, biomathematics, partial differential equations and mathematics education, to name a few.
Our Mathematics department is actively contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals through world-leading research , in areas such as Cancer research, further mathematics in schools and mathematical and statistical modelling.
Professor Elaine Crooks Head of the School of Mathematics and Computer Science
Professor Vitaly Moroz Head of Department
Dr Kristian Evans Programme Director
Dr Irina Rodionova Admissions Tutor
See all our Mathematics staff
Our Mathematics programmes have a range of funding options available.
Find out more by visiting our Mathematics Scholarships and Bursaries webpages.
The tuition fees do not cover the costs of purchasing books or stationery, printing, thesis binding or photocopying costs.
There are no mandatory additional costs specified for this course.
93% of Graduates are in employment and/or other study 15 months after leaving Swansea University.
(HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023)
Our lecturers operate an ‘open door’ policy so you can chat with them about any concerns you may be having.
These do not have to be just course related; our academic staff are there to help you with anything at all during your time in Swansea.
Each course has a student rep.
They are there to make sure that every student voice is heard.
Their role is to listen and feedback on your opinions, attend regular meetings and make sure that the people who can make changes listen to the people who really matter - you!
We offer both a Personal Tutor and peer mentoring.
All students on our undergraduate courses are assigned a Personal Tutor who will offer you not only Academic Guidance, but advice on finding and accessing help with personal issues.
Our Peer mentoring scheme is in place to help new students settle into university life here at Swansea.
You will get a chance to talk to your mentor who can tell you about their experiences as a student and also chat about student life.
The peer mentoring scheme is a great way to meet students and widen your friendship circle while at Swansea.
You can also get help with personal issues from our wide range of student support such as CampusLife , Inclusive Student Support Services and The Centre for Academic Success .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-actuarial-science:
Through this three-year BSc degree you will learn the deep mathematics involved in analysing risk along with a wide variety of practical business applications relevant to the actuarial profession.
7th in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2025)
13th in the UK for Teaching Quality (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Our Mathematics department is actively contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals through world-leading research, in areas such as cancer research, further mathematics in schools and mathematical and statistical modelling.
All students on our undergraduate courses are assigned a Personal Tutor, who will offer you not only Academic Guidance, but advice on finding and accessing help with personal issues.
As an actuarial science student, you will already possess multiple skills that employers look for.
Combined with your year in industry you will stand out even more in this increasingly popular market.
Your placement year will give you the opportunity to enhance your knowledge while gaining valuable industry experience.
You will graduate with a highly desirable degree, favoured by Industry professionals, as you move into the mathematics career of your choice.
If you are unable to secure a placement by the end of the second year of your studies you will transfer onto the equivalent degree programme.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/adult-nursing-carmarthen-bsc-hons:
Our internationally recognised Adult Nursing degree course will give you the skills and experience to launch a rewarding career in this diverse and essential profession.
Over the course of this carefully-integrated, three year BSc programme, you will learn about the holistic needs of people from early adulthood through to geriatrics.
As you progress, you will develop the skills to assess, plan, deliver, and evaluate evidence-based care to promote the health and wellbeing of adults with acute and chronic conditions.
Based at our St David’s Park campus in Carmarthen, half of your teaching will take place in the university and the other half in healthcare settings.
We have excellent working relationships with many healthcare providers, so you will have access to a wide range of clinical experiences across southwest Wales.
These include placements in the NHS and independent sector in hospitals and community settings.
We have an outstanding reputation for nursing and are ranked in the Top 10 in the UK for Graduate Prospects (Times Good University Guide 2025).
Our academic staff are qualified nurses, doctors, and allied health professionals, many of whom are also practising clinicians, providing an exceptional combination of theoretical rigour, professional insight, and practical expertise.
We have very strong links with Welsh health boards, opening up clinical placement opportunities for you in a variety of settings in both urban and rural locations.
If you are a UK student who can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, as well as maintenance funding of up to £4,491 and a reduced rate loan from Student Finance.
Please see our NHS Funding webpage to check your eligibility for funding before applying.
Our excellent facilities at St David’s Park include a realistic clinical suite so you can put your theoretical knowledge into practice in an environment that reflects as closely as possible the actual conditions that you will experience when you go on placement in a hospital or community setting.
You can also study part of your nursing degree through the medium of Welsh and may be eligible for internal scholarships or support through Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
On graduation, you will be eligible to apply for Registered Nurse (Adult) status with the Nursing and Midwifery Council and to register as a nurse for work in EU and EEA.
You can expect a starting salary of £28,407 rising to £57,349 for a highly experienced staff nurse.
Specialist nurses and practice managers can earn £50,056.
Choose Exactly 40 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students must select one of the following modules.
There are opportunities for Welsh speakers to study at least 40 credits of this course through the medium of Welsh.
Accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council
Heulwen Morgan-Samuels
Jane James
Amanda Jones
Lisa Duffy
Sarah Done
Lisa Matthews
Angela Duckworth
Howard Griffiths
Jyorti Sherestha
Rebecca Dowle
Elaine Jones
Nia Williams
Angela Williams
If you are a UK student who can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the , as well as maintenance funding and a reduced rate loan from Student Finance.
We want to support the development of your competence in using digital media, to enhance your learning, engage in technologies in clinical practice and protect yourself and the profession when you are online.
Find out more about how we embed digital literacy in the nursing curriculum .
Studying abroad will give you the opportunity to embrace a new culture, make new friends and become immersed in a country you may not have experienced before.
Eligible applicants will be invited to interview and interviews for this course take place via Zoom.
Check out our Interview Tips for more information on what to expect
You will attend 42 weeks in total each year and there are ten weeks non-term time each year over Christmas, Easter and the summer.
The academic year starts early September and ends late the following August.
Our admissions department will contact you directly with your start date.
Each year Swansea University hosts a number of Undergraduate Open Days , which take place in the autumn, spring and summer – this is your chance to visit our campus in Singleton, tour our state-of-the-art facilities, and join our topic conversations to learn more about our nursing degrees (where you can also speak to our current lecturers and nursing students).
We are excited to welcome you to a series of virtual events, introducing you to the career opportunities you could embark on by studying an Adult Nursing degree at Swansea University, St David's Park Carmarthen.
Please note that these events are for those interested in studying Adult Nursing at our satellite West Wales campus (St David’s Park, Jobswell Road, Carmarthen, SA31 3HB) and not on Swansea University Singleton Park Campus.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/adult-nursing-swansea-bsc-hons/.:
Half of your teaching takes place in the university and the other half in healthcare settings.
We have excellent working relationships with many healthcare providers, so you will have access to a wide range of clinical experiences across south west Wales.
International only:
International applications for the 2025/26 academic year beginning September 2025 (both funded and self-funded) are now closed .
International applications to this programme for the 2026/27 academic year beginning September 2026 will be open 1st to 31st January 2026 (applications received before 1st January 2026 or after 31st January 2026 will not be accepted).
Meanwhile, the nearest hospital is right next door to our Singleton Park campus on the edge of the beautiful Gower Peninsula.
If you are a UK student who can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, as well as maintenance funding and a reduced rate loan from Student Finance.
Our excellent facilities include a realistic clinical suite so you can put your theoretical knowledge into practice in an environment that reflects as closely as possible the actual conditions that you will experience when you go on placement in a hospital or community setting.
You can also study part of your nursing degree through the medium of Welsh and may be eligible for internal scholarships or financial support through Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
You can expect a starting salary of £28,407 rising to £57,349 for a highly experienced staff nurse.
Accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council
Jayne Cutter – Head of the School of Health and Social Care
Catherine Norris
Kevin Akerman
Jon Hinkin
Andrew Evered
Sharon Harvey
Vera Logan
Mark Edwards
Stephanie John
Ingrid Pritchard
Nicola Tingle
Nerys Williams
Michelle Anderson
Tracy Williams
Deborah Rowberry
Tony Duffy
If you are a UK student who can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the NHS Wales Values and Standards of Behaviour as well as maintenance funding of up to £4,491 and a reduced rate loan from Student Finance.
If you are an international student, you will need to pay a fee for the practical placement elements of the course.
The clinical practice fee is £2,500 per year.
*Fees for full time undergraduate international students will increase by 3% for each subsequent year of study.
We want to support the development of your competence in using digital media, to enhance your learning, engage in technologies in clinical practice and protect yourself and the profession when you are online.
Depending on the number of offers made after the final review panel, we may continue to accept applications, impose a new closing date or place any late applications on a waiting list.
We have two annual intakes for the nursing degree which does not follow the usual University term times.
September intake: the academic year starts early September and ends late the following August.
March intake: the academic year starts late February/early March and ends the following February.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/aerospace-engineering/advanced-manufacturing-engineering-degree-apprenticeships:
Primarily Coleg Cambria, Deeside Placement activity at Swansea University Bay Campus
Dr Christian Griffiths
Apprenticeship Options
Foundation Degree – This is a 2 year programme.
The final qualification will be a Foundation Degree in Advanced Manufacturing Engineering.
BEng Degree Apprenticeship – This is the full 3 year programme.
The final qualification will be a BEng in Advanced Manufacturing Engineering.
Course Overview
The Degree Apprenticeship in Advanced Manufacturing Engineering is a broad-based curriculum which covers aspects of mechanical and electrical engineering, engineering design, materials, manufacturing methods, control systems, numerical analysis and modelling.
In the final year, this extends into more advanced topics of automation and robotics, systems engineering, simulation and advanced materials.
The programme is designed for learners employed within the engineering sector, as companies are increasingly looking to take on well-qualified school-leavers and direct them through an embedded degree apprenticeship scheme rather than taking on graduates.
The BEng Degree Apprenticeship is an attractive route to a degree level qualification for existing employees, or those who have followed a vocational qualification route within the FE sector, as the qualification can be obtained alongside industrial experience, with lower levels of student debt.
The Swansea University awarded BEng degree is delivered as a partnership between Swansea University, Coleg Cambria and the employer companies.
The degrees are awarded by Swansea University.
Swansea University has been working closely with Industry since its founding over 100 years ago and has long experience of providing high-quality industry-based education, especially in Engineering.
With an impressive research background, all Engineering subjects are ranked in the UK's Top 25 by The Times University Guide 2021.
Key features of the BEng Degree Apprenticeship programme:
The Degree Apprenticeship programme is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
Using the Framework for Degree Apprenticeships in Engineering and Advanced Manufacturing, this programme is designed to meet all the core elements (sections 1 to 5) to ensure our graduates have well-rounded, interdisciplinary knowledge ready for the future of the engineering sector.
The Degree Apprenticeship is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers as meeting the academic requirements for IEng and partly meeting the requirements for CEng professional status.
"I’ve had a great deal of support throughout the courses I’ve completed at Cambria which has really benefited my learning.
I’ve found my Foundation Degree enjoyable yet challenging and it’s helped me advance in my day to day job.
I’ve really enjoyed developing my knowledge and gaining new skills."
Kendal Irvine (FdEng Advanced Manufacturing Engineering student, Controls and Calibrations Apprentice at JCB Transmissions)
As part of your employment, you will register for a Degree Apprenticeship and be enrolled as a student with both Swansea University and Coleg Cambria.
You will have one day each week released from work to study, which will usually be at the Coleg Cambria Deeside College site.
This will form part of your normal employment and you should not be required to make up the hours separately.
The one-day per week will involve fairly intensive learning and teaching including a combination of conventional classroom lectures, computer-based work and practical/project activity.
You will be expected to undertake additional study in your own time outside of these periods and about 25% of the course is built around work-based projects that you complete within your normal working role.
You will be assigned a work-place mentor to guide you in this.
Assessments are spread throughout the year, with a mix of formal exams, coursework, design and project reports, and computer-based assignments.
In the project selection, especially in the final year, you will be able to specify the subjects for your main research project to match the role you are doing in the workplace.
This is a course for applicants that are employed in a relevant engineering field.
Employers will be required to support their employees with time to attend the course and carry out their studies, with no requirement for the hours to be made up elsewhere, or deductions in salary.
Employers and students would be required to sign a Learning Agreement to be eligible to access Degree Apprenticeship Funding.
Year 1 A Levels of grade BBB including Maths and Physics.
There is no requirement on the third A Level, but one of Chemistry, Design, IT/Computing, Further Maths or Business/Economics is preferred or a relevant BTEC qualification with grades of D*D*D* with a Distinction in the Further Maths Module.
Relevant HNC qualification (120 credits, see note below on Year 2 entry)
Students with a relevant BTEC Level 3 Qualification with  an overall grade of Distinction, including a distinction in the Further Maths module, may also apply.
Applications will be considered on a case by case basis and applicants may be required to sit and pass an entrance examination.
Year 2
Relevant HNC qualification (120 credits) Students with sufficiently high* module grades in their HNC qualification may be able to join the Fd/BEng programme at Year 2.
Applications will be considered on a case by case basis by the Swansea University and Cambria Academic Staff.
*Typically Distinctions including maths.
Year 3
A Foundation Degree with a close match of modules, considered in detail on a case by case basis by the Swansea University and Cambria Academic Staff
Relevant FdEng (240 credits) or a Level 5 Diploma.
In addition to this, all applicants must have GCSE English Language and GCSE Maths or Numeracy at grade C or above.
Any assessment of prior learning (such as professional development awards or employment-based awards) which is at a Higher Education level but not awarded HE credits will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the Swansea University and Cambria Academic Staff.
The taught content is delivered on a one-day per week basis at the HE Centre, Coleg Cambria Deeside campus.
This well-equipped facility is shared between Coleg Cambria and Swansea University and includes teaching rooms, PC rooms, laboratories and some common space.
Teaching is specific to the Degree Apprenticeship cohort with classes typically of between 25 to 35 students.
Teaching methods include conventional lectures, practical work, worked examples, computational design classes and design projects.
Years 1 and 2 are primarily taught by Coleg Cambria staff, with Year 3 primarily taught by Swansea University staff.
A significant work-based project is included in each year, which is supervised by a member of teaching staff and supported by a mentor from your workplace.
The final year project brings advanced technical aspects into a work-based problem that is specified jointly by you and your supervisor.
In order for learners to have the genuine student experience of a research-led University, an intensive placement activity takes place at Swansea University in each of the three years.
Each placement is between 3 days and one week and will make best use of the high-level facilities available at Swansea to support the remainder of the degree schemes.
Assessment is spread throughout the year and includes a range of methods including formal tests and exams, written and computational coursework, practical and project reports, presentations and some assessment of practical competencies.
In addition to the taught hours students will be required to undertake periods of self-directed study and placement time at Swansea University.
Foundation Degree – £7500 per annum for 2 study years.
Funding support is provided through the Welsh Government, Higher Apprenticeship programme (for eligible UK).
BEng Degree Apprenticeship – £9000 per annum for 3 years.
Funding support is provided by Medr (for eligible UK students).
Full tuition fee funding for the Degree Apprenticeship Programme is available from Medr*.
Eligible employed students will not have to pay course fees.
*This funding may be subject to change.
This course does not recruit via UCAS.
The first step in this process is to contact the programme coordinator who will be able to provide guidance on your application.
Please contact eng-degree-apprenticeships@swansea.ac.uk , following which you will need to make a Direct Application with Coleg Cambria.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/aerospace-engineering/beng-aeronautical-manufacturing:
£9000 per annum (funding available for eligible students, see Tuition Fees and Funding below)
The final qualification will be a Foundation Degree in Aeronautical and Manufacturing Engineering.
The final qualification will be a BEng in Aeronautical and Manufacturing Engineering.
The Degree Apprenticeship in Aeronautical and Manufacturing Engineering is a broad-based curriculum, covering aspects of mechanical and aeronautical engineering, engineering design, materials, manufacturing methods, aerodynamics, numerical analysis and modelling as well as the underlying fundamental of maths, engineering principals and design methodologies.
The Degree Apprenticeship programme is accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) and by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
Using the Framework for Degree Apprenticeships in Engineering and Advanced Manufacturing, this programme is designed to meet all the core elements (sections 1 to 5) to ensure our graduates have well-rounded, interdisciplinary knowledge ready for the future of the engineering sector.
The Degree Apprenticeship is jointly accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers as meeting the academic requirements for IEng and partly meeting the requirements for CEng professional status.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/aerospace-engineering/beng-aerospace-engineering-foundation-year:
Studying an Aerospace Engineering degree gives you expert training in the theory and operation of aeronautical vehicles, from jet-powered and propeller-driven planes to gliders and helicopters.
You will learn about the full engineering journey, from concept on the ground to handling in the sky.
Whether your main interest concerns design, analysis, testing or flight, at Swansea we have it covered.
The integrated Engineering Foundation Year programme can lead to any full engineering degree.
It is not a qualification in its own right, but the first year of a four-year BEng degree.
This multidisciplinary course provides a real world insight into the atmosphere of our planet and the cosmos beyond, as well as the technologies needed to explore them.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of state-of-the-art equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider aerospace industry.
Aerospace Engineering at Swansea University is a member of the prestigious Aerospace Research Consortium (ARC) group of universities
A flexibly structured degree path means you have the opportunity to study abroad for a year or work in industry for a year.
A selection of optional modules are offered in the later years of study, helping to closely align the degree with your interests.
*Based on the overall positivity score for question 1 - 26 in the NSS 2025
As all Engineering Foundation Year students study all the same modules, there is a good rapport amongst students which creates a friendly and supportive study atmosphere.
Graduates of our Aerospace Engineering degrees at Swansea are set on course for a range of employment opportunities.
Your future could lie in any of the following roles:
The Engineering integrated Foundation Year programme is a common one which leads on to any of our branches of engineering.
It is not a stand-alone qualification, but is the first year of a 4-year BEng degree.
Choose Exactly 10 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Space Stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream
NOTE : Material/Propulsion Stream
Choose Exactly 20 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Space Stream -             

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream -        

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Structural/Computational Stream
NOTE : Materials/Propulsion Stream -

These options MUST by chosen by those on the Materials/Propulsion Stream
As a student studying on the foundation year, don’t worry that you will miss out on an accredited engineering degree.
You won’t.
The courses are accredited by a range of professional institutions.
Depending on which course you choose, will depend on which Professional Body accredits your degree.
The various examples of accreditation organisations include IET, IMechE, IOM3, IChemE, RAeS.
You will be taught by world-class lecturers who are all active researchers.
Their research areas of expertise include Structural and Computational Engineering, Materials and Propulsion, Space Technologies, Aerodynamics, Flight Simulation and Design and Optimisation.
See all the Aerospace Engineering staff here .
The tuition fees do not cover costs incurred personally by the student such as the purchase of books or stationery, printing or photocopying costs.
Recommended textbooks for this course are available in the library.
All software needed for the course is available on the Engineering network, for use within our PC rooms at Swansea University.
Free wireless internet access is available across the whole of the University campus and halls of residence.
We are very proud of the excellent career prospects of our Engineering graduates.
We are continually striving to improve the employability of our students, by cultivating strong relationships with graduate employers and by ensuring our students are as prepared as they can be for the world of work.
Find out more about our Careers & Employability service.
Providing the best student experience possible is of the utmost importance to us , and we have well-established systems and support staff in place in order to facilitate this.
We have regular Maths, Chemistry and Software Cafes for students to develop their skills within these areas.
Find out more about the student support we offer here.
If you are an international student please find more information about our Foundation Year at The College here .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/aerospace-engineering/beng-aerospace-engineering:
Our Aerospace Engineering degree gives you expert training in the theory and operation of aeronautical vehicles, from jet-powered and propeller-driven planes to gliders and helicopters.
Whether your main interest is design, analysis, testing or flight, at Swansea we have it covered!
*Based on the overall positivity score for question 1 -26  in the NSS 2025
This course provides a real world insight into the atmosphere of our planet and the cosmos beyond, as well as the technologies needed to explore them.
You will develop your analytical abilities whilst gaining hands-on experience of state-of-the-art equipment, vital to securing employment in the wider aerospace industry.
In your first year you can take a flying lesson and throughout your course will be working with facilities like the Merlin MPX521 Engineering Flight Simulator, the JetCat P120 Engine and multiple wind tunnels ensuring you are always fully up to speed.
Our graduates are set on course for a range of exciting employment opportunities including:
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as Rolls Royce, Airbus, BAE Systems, GE Aviation, Royal Air Force and Jaguar Land Rover .
Six months after graduating, our average graduate salary is £25,000.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H402) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
Support and guidance is provided to help secure your placement.
Hear from Adam about his Year in Industry placement with Rolls-Royce!
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS 401) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Your early studies will focus on subjects including engineering analysis, mechanics, design, thermodynamics and fluid mechanics.
Later options allow you to specialise in one of three streams: Space, Structural/Computational or Materials/Propulsion.
NOTE : Space Stream -             

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream.
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream -        

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Structural/Computational Stream.
NOTE : Materials/Propulsion Stream -    

These options MUST by chosen by those on the Materials/Propulsion Stream.
NOTE : Space Stream -

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream -

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Structural/Computational Stream
NOTE : Space Stream -      

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream -       

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Structural/Computational Stream
NOTE : Materials/Propulsion Stream - 

These options MUST by chosen by those on the Materials/Propulsion Stream
The BEng Aerospace Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE), the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the educational requirement for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK-SPEC).
Study on this accredited degree will provide you with some of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills needed as a Chartered Engineer.
Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by many countries that are signatories to international accords.
Providing the best student experience possible is of the utmost importance to us, and we have well-established systems and support staff in place in order to facilitate this.
I secured a job with BMW MINI plant in Swindon before my graduation.
I am currently working as a Production Specialist.
My job role is to provide engineering support to the production team, work on new ways to increase efficiency as well as the quality of the product we create here, resolve existing issues.
I am also involved with writing work instructions for our associates on how to load stations within cycle time for the robots to work 100% effectively.
Best part of my job is the opportunity to travel within UK and abroad to improve my skills and gain new ones!
I’m very much looking forward to my future placements with the other businesses of BMW.
Studying Aerospace Engineering at Swansea has definitely prepared me for my job role as it is one of the hardest subjects and requires a huge amount of time to be put in, in order to get a good result.
The massive amount of course works and the difficult modules has improved my time management and attention to details.
I have also improved my presentation skill as we were required to give several presentations during the length of the course.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/aerospace-engineering/meng-aerospace-engineering:
The MEng is a four-year integrated degree that goes beyond the BEng , offering advanced technical and leadership skills, deeper specialisation, and a direct pathway to professional accreditation.
“
This multi-disciplinary course provides a real world insight into the atmosphere of our planet and the cosmos beyond, as well as the technologies needed to explore them.
In your first year you can take a flying lesson and throughout your course will be working with facilities like the Merlin MPX521 Engineering Flight Simulator, the JetCat P120 Engine and multiple wind tunnels ensuring you are always fully up to speed.
Graduates of the MEng Aerospace Engineering degree at Swansea are set on course for a range of employment opportunities.
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, Rolls Royce, Airbus, BAE Systems, GE Aviation, Royal Air Force and Jaguar Land Rover.
Our average graduate salary after 6 months of graduating is £25,000.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H404) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H406) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
NOTE : Space Stream -  

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
NOTE : Materials/Propulsion Stream -   

These options MUST by chosen by those on the Materials/Propulsion Stream
Choose Exactly 60 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Aeronautical Stream - 

Students MUST take these optional modules for the Aeronautical Stream
Choose Exactly 50 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students on the Astronautical Stream MUST select these optional modules
NOTE : Astronautical Stream - options

Students on the Astronautical Stream MUST select between these two optional modules.
The default selection between the two optional modules should be EG-M73 Composite Materials, unless you studied EGA301 Composite Materials at Undergraduate Level in Swansea University.
If you studied EGA301 Composite Materials at Undergraduate Level in Swansea University please select EGTM60.
NOTE : Space Stream - 

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream -         

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Structural/Computational Stream
NOTE : Space Stream.
These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream         

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Structural/Computational Stream
NOTE : Materials/Propulsion Stream.
These options MUST by chosen by those on the Materials/Propulsion Stream
These options MUST be chosen by those on the space stream
NOTE : Structural/Computational Stream         

These options MUST be chosen by those on the structural/computational stream
These options MUST by chosen by those on the materials/propulsion stream
NOTE : Space Stream -   

These options MUST be chosen by those on the Space Stream
The MEng Aerospace Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE), the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the educational requirement for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/american-studies/ba-american-studies-history:
Studying American Studies and History involves exploring the culture, history and politics of the United States, the most influential country in the world, alongside many aspects of British, European and world history.
It addresses some of the most pressing issues in our contemporary world, including globalization and struggles for racial justice.
Our BA degree opens up a range of exciting career possibilities by helping you to develop transferable skills, which are highly valued by employers.
You can shape the degree to your own interests, whether in US popular culture and political protest or heritage and medicine, health, and disability.
You also have the chance to study for a year or a semester in the United States, discovering the subject first hand.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our American Studies and History degree is highly regarded by employers.
It includes the option of studying in the United States for a semester or a year, further enhancing your student experience and career prospects.
American Studies at Swansea is ranked:
*American and Australasian Studies, Q28, NSS 2025
History at Swansea is ranked:
We offer varied and flexible course content, so you can shape your American Studies and History degree to your own interests.
Topics include American film; popular music; race; gender and women’s history; migration and urbanization; social, economic, cultural and military history; the history of war and conflict; terrorism; civil rights; public history and heritage; modern British social history; the history of religion, health and medicine; and political protest.
Teaching is informed by our world-leading interdisciplinary research in a wide range of subject areas, from civil rights, US foreign policy, and the Cold War to the American Civil War, contemporary US fiction, and the Harlem Renaissance.
During your time at Swansea University, you will have the opportunity to get involved in a wide range of clubs and societies.
The American Studies Student Society organises a range of social and cultural events.
The breadth of American Studies and History fosters transferable skills valued by employers, including creative thinking, critical awareness, team working, and advanced oral and written communication skills.
American Studies and History graduates are known for their adaptability and creativity because the course requires students to make connections between disciplines and traditions.
Our graduates enter careers in a wide range of sectors including:
Your early studies will introduce you to the history, politics and culture of America, as well as various aspects of history from the Middle Ages to modern times.
You'll gain a grounding in the approaches used by historians to understand and explain different aspects of the past across a wide range of periods, as well as the interdisciplinary scope of American Studies.
You will then choose your pathway with modules to suit your own interests, before focusing in depth on your chosen research project to produce a dissertation.
NOTE : Select One module
NOTE : Select one module
NOTE : Select two modules from the list below.
At least one of these modules must have a HIH-code.
Students must not exceed 60 credits in any one teaching block.
NOTE : Select 60 credits from the list below.
NOTE: Students will be expected to take 120 credits for the year: 60 credits in Semester 1 and 60 credits in Semester 2.
60 credits must be comprised American Studies modules 60 credits from the History department.
Module selected towards History cannot be selected again here.
NOTE : Students must select ONE dissertation only.
Either select the History Dissertation or scroll down to select the Dissertation in  American Studies.
NOTE : Students taking the History dissertation must select one module to fulfill 60 credits in History.
Overall (including the joint honours modules) Students must select two optional modules each semester alongside their dissertation  Students may select HIH3378 or HIH3378W but not both.
NOTE : Select THREE modules from the list below.
Overall, students must select two optional modules per semester alongside their dissertation.
Modules already selected towards History cannot be selected again here.
NOTE : Select One module from the list below.
NOTE : Select two optional modules at least one of which must have a HIH code.
Overall (including the joint hons subject) students must select two optional modules per semester alongside their dissertation.
Modules selected towards American Studies cannot be selected again here.
NOTE : Select one special subject module.
Please note that modules are capped at 18 students.
Do not exceed 60 credits in any one semester
Choose Exactly 120 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students will have the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner institutions and to experience different cultures.
NOTE : Students must select ONE dissertation.
Students may select the History Dissertation or scroll down to select the Dissertation in American Studies.
Overall (including the joint hons modules) Students must select two optional modules each semester alongside their dissertation  Students may select HIH3378 or HIH3378W but not both.
NOTE : Select two modules, at least one of of them must have a HIH code.
Students have the option of selecting the History Dissertation or scrolling down to select the Dissertation in American Studies.
Overall (including the joint honours modules) Students must select two optional modules each semester alongside their dissertation Students may select HIH3378 or HIH3378W but not both.
NOTE : Select two History modules one of which must have a HIH code.
If you study at least 5 credits in Welsh and it is listed as an eligible course on the webpage, you can apply for the Academi Hywel Teifi Bursary (£100 for 1 year) at the beginning of term (after registration).
Our degrees are taught by experts, who have a wealth of knowledge to pass on to our students.
You can find out more about our academic expertise on our staff pages.
We care about our students and our aim is to ensure that you achieve the best degree classification.
We have a personal mentoring system where you will be allocated a personal tutor.
We also have an “open door” policy where our academic teachers are available to talk to you at any time about any queries or academic concerns you may have.
This is a degree that supports you to study in the United States or Canada.
You will have the opportunity to study at a wide variety of institutions, to take new courses, and will benefit from the wider opportunity to travel, undertake internships and experience your subject first hand.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/american-studies/ba-american-studies-politics:
Studying American Studies and Politics involves exploring the culture, history and politics of the United States, the most influential country in the world, alongside British and European politics, public policy, political theory and philosophy.
It addresses some of the most pressing issues in our contemporary world, including globalization and the struggles for racial justice.
You will have the chance to study American history, literature, politics and culture, stretching from colonization to the present, and a range of politics topics from ancient philosophy and rhetoric to war and warfare in the modern world.
You can shape the degree to your own interests, whether in US popular culture and political protest or political theory and international peace and conflict.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our American Studies and Politics degree is highly regarded by employers.
Politics at Swansea is ranked:
We offer varied and flexible course content, so you can shape your American Studies and Politics degree to your own interests.
Topics include American film, music, race, gender, migration and urbanization, social, economic and military history, terrorism, or civil rights and political protest; conflict and peace, democracy, politics, philosophy, international relations, international security, public policy or political economy.
Your early studies will introduce you to the history, politics, culture and literature of America, as well as politics and international relations.
You will then choose your pathway by selecting modules to suit your own interests, before focusing in depth on your chosen research project to produce a dissertation.
NOTE : select one module
NOTE : Students must select one  optional module from the list below.
This will complete 60 credits in Politics, with the  remaining 60 credits being drawn from the  cognate discipline.
Students must not exceed 60 credits in any one semester.
NOTE : Select 60 credits .
NOTE Students will be expected to take 120 credits for the year: 60 credits in Semester 1 and 60 credits in Semester 2.
60 credits must be comprised of American Studies modules along with 60 credits from Politics
NOTE : Students must select ONE of the options  from below.
Joint honours students are permitted to take only ONE dissertation module, from either of their joint honours subjects.
Choose Maximum Of 40 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students who select a dissertation in Politics or The Welsh Parliament do not select from these options as they have already selected  60 credits of Politics.
Students pursuing the American Studies dissertation must select two modules from the list below.
Students must not exceed 60 credits in any one semester
Choose Minimum Of 20 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : If you have selected the American Studies dissertation select ONE module from the list below.
If you have opted for a dissertation in Politics, select THREE modules from the list below.
Overall you must select 120cr for the year, two modules in each semester along with the dissertation
All of our students have the option of study abroad.
Our 4-year programmes offer a full-year abroad and we also offer a semester abroad for 3-year degrees, during your second year from January to May in Hong Kong, Singapore and the USA.
The semester abroad is an exchange programme so you will pay UK tuition fees and be responsible for accommodation and living costs at the semester partner institution.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/american-studies/ba-american-studies-foundation-year:
To understand America’s history, culture and politics is to appreciate the forces that shape the world today.
American Studies explores the culture, history, and politics of the most influential country in the world, from colonization to the present.
The Foundation Year gives you an exciting introduction to Higher Education, setting you up with the skills, confidence, and knowledge that you’ll need to be successful on your undergraduate degree.
It’s ideal if you need a little more support after Further Education or are returning to education after a gap.
You will have the chance to explore American history, literature, politics and culture, stretching from colonization to current presidencies.
You can shape the degree to your own interests, whether in US popular culture or political protest.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our American Studies programme is highly regarded by employers.
American Studies at Swansea is ranked:
During your Foundation Year, you will learn the key skills you’ll need to make your degree a success while developing knowledge of your subject area and how it relates to the humanities and social sciences.
You will start the degree course in your second year, when we offer varied and flexible course content, so you can shape your American Studies degree to your own interests, whether in American popular culture, civil rights or political protest.
Our interdisciplinary approach means you can make connections across a range of subject areas – from visual culture and music to history and politics.
Teaching is informed by our world-leading research and you can attend seminars organised through our guest speaker programme.
You will have a personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need.
The breadth of American Studies fosters transferable skills valued by employers, including creative thinking, critical awareness, team working, and advanced oral and written communication skills.
American Studies graduates are known for their adaptability and creativity because the course requires students to make connections between disciplines and traditions.
In your Foundation Year, you will take a selection of modules that will provide you with key study skills, subject knowledge, and awareness of the importance of the humanities and social sciences.
You’ll then progress to your degree where the early part will introduce you to the history, politics, culture and literature of America.
NOTE : Select two modules
NOTE : Select ONE module
NOTE : Select 60 credits for semester 1.
An optional 20 credit ‘elective’ module can be chosen from within the School of Culture and Communication.
NOTE : Select 60 credits for semester 2.
NOTE : Please select two modules from semester one (from this box), followed by two modules from semester two ( from the box below)  You may select HIH3378 or HIH3378W but not both.
NOTE : Select two modules for TB2 which alongside two modules in TB1 (from the box above) make up the total credits for the year.
International summer programmes are open to students from all colleges.
Programmes typically range from 2 to 6 weeks, across destinations such as China, Zambia, South Korea, Japan, Canada and across Europe.
To learn more about study abroad opportunities, visit our Go Global webpages .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/american-studies/ba-american-studies:
American Studies explores the culture, history and politics of the most influential country in the world, from colonization to the present.
We offer varied and flexible course content, so you can tailor the degree to your own interests, whether in film, music, race, gender, migration and urbanization, social, economic and military history, terrorism, or civil rights and political protest.
Our interdisciplinary approach means you can make connections between a range of subject areas – from visual culture and music to history and politics.
Your early studies will introduce you to the history, politics, culture and literature of the United States.
NOTE : Students will have the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner institutions and to experience different culture.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-ancient-history-history:
If you would like to study History across thousands of years, or choose modules covering the widest possible range of periods, Ancient History and History at Swansea is for you.
Because of the long time span this degree scheme covers, you can also investigate how later periods have understood and built on what had come before them.
Put the cultures you explore in deep context and think critically about identity and socio-cultural developments, as well as the actions of history-makers in many different contexts.
You’ll get the chance to consider connections and developments across centuries and millennia, and to analyse a great variety of historical material, from ancient objects in the Egypt Centre , our in-house museum, and historical sites to recent archive material.
This course will empower you to grow in yourself and to develop important analytical and interpersonal skills.
We are based in our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula.
Classics and Ancient History at Swansea is ranked:
In Ancient History we have expertise in, and regularly publish on, areas from the Greek city states and their geographers, Cyprus through the ages, and Alexander the Great, to Roman Syria, Pompeii, and the bishops and emperors of the later Roman empire.
You can study the past outside of the lecture hall and the library, through field trips and study trip modules, and apply your knowledge in a work placement.
If you have teaching in mind as a career, you can gain valuable experience with our Schools Placement module, in which you can, as part of your degree, instruct pupils in local schools in the culture of the classical world.
We also offer opportunities in the heritage sector, working with local institutions, which are in accord with our civic mission and concern for our environment.
Further afield, you can choose to spend a semester abroad in your second year with one of our many partners in Australia, Asia, North America, or Europe, or choose the four-year version of this degree which includes a whole year abroad following your second year at Swansea.
You also have the opportunity to spend a Year in Industry, on a year-long professional placement, enabling you to build valuable knowledge and skills ready for your career.
Making history, not just writing it, is as much an art as a skill.
Our modules are assessed in a variety of different ways, several of them aimed at letting you flex your creative muscles and helping you to develop your experience in communicating your knowledge.
You will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning, to work independently as well as with others, and to act professionally.
Throughout your Ancient History and History degree, you will each have a personal tutor from among the teaching staff to lend academic support.
We are an inclusive, close-knit community which enjoys exploring the world beyond the classroom.
Our student-run Ancient World Society organises social and cultural events, including museum trips, as does the History Society.
To enhance your career prospects, we offer the opportunity to sign up for various employability and engagement-related placements, such as the Week of Work.
Students of Ancient History typically develop excellent presentation and writing skills, related to research, analysis, and problem solving.
You will learn to develop your ideas in a wide range of formats applicable to your life after university.
Year 1 of your degree will include three compulsory and three optional modules, with a choice of optional topics that include The Early Modern World, Medieval Europe, Gods and Heroes, and Ancient Egyptian Society and Culture.
Year 2 has one compulsory module and five optionals, with topics including Archaic Greece, Gender in the Roman World, a Schools Placement teaching ancient history and languages, and Plato’s Republic.
Year 3 largely consists of optional modules, with choices including advanced levels of Greek or Latin, Pompeii and the Cities of Vesuvius, Plato’s Republic, The Great Depression, Ancient and Medieval Monarchy, and a compulsory Dissertation.
If you choose to undertake a Year Abroad or Year in Industry, this will take place between your second and third years of study, making your degree four years in total.
NOTE : Select AT LEAST ONE AND UP TO THREE of the following modules.
NOTE : Select enough optional modules to make a total of 120 credits for the whole year (after your compulsory modules).
To enrol in a TB2 Latin or Greek module, you MUST enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
Staff can advise on the appropriate level of Latin or Greek modules on request.
Choose Minimum Of 40 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Select two or three of these modules.
Select at least one module with a CLH code in each teaching block.
Overall, students must select three modules in each teaching block and three modules in each joint honours subjects.
Choose Maximum Of 20 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : You may choose one of the following modules to make up the remainder of your 60 Ancient History credits.
Overall, you need to select three  modules in each teaching block and three modules in each of your joint honours subjects
Students must not exceed three modules in any one semester.
Modules selected in the Ancient History section cannot be selected again here.
NOTE : Students must select either the History Dissertation (HIH3300) OR the Classics Dissertation (CLD300).
Choose Maximum Of 60 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : If you have selected the Classics dissertation, select one module from this box or one module from the box below.
If you have not selected the Classics dissertation, select three modules from this box, or two modules from this box and one module from the box below.
To enrol in a TB2 Latin or Greek module, you should normally  enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
NOTE : You may choose a maximum of 20 credits from the following to count towards the Ancient History side of you degree.
NOTE : Students who have selected the Classics dissertation must also select a History special subject along with two History optional modules in the box below.
Students who have selected the History dissertation require one more History module which may come from this box OR the box below.
Credits must be balanced with students selecting 60 credits in each joint honours subject and two modules  in each semester alongside their dissertation.
NOTE : History dissertation students may select a module in this box or a special subject from the box above.
Classics dissertation students must select two modules from this box, one of which must have a HIH code.
HHC372 can only be selected once
To enrol in a TB2 Latin or Greek module, you should normally enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
HHC372 can be selected only once.
NOTE : Students must select either the History Dissertation (HIH3300) OR the Classics Dissertation (CLD300).Credits must be balanced with students selecting 60 credits in each joint honours subject and two modules  in each semester alongside their dissertation.
Staff can advise on the appropriate level of Latin or Greek modules on request
Classics dissertation students must select two modules from this box once of which must have a HIH code.
HHC372 may be selected only once.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-ancient-history-foundation-year:
Ancient History explores and examines the cultures of ancient Greece and Rome, and their interactions with the world beyond.
Such civilisations may appear distant but remain influential even today.
This programme, with a Foundation Year, gives you an exciting introduction to Higher Education, setting you up with the skills, confidence, and knowledge that you’ll need to be successful on your undergraduate degree.
The programme will introduce you to theories, methodologies, and sources (including archaeology) to help you grasp the variety of lived experience in the ancient world.
Studying this four-year BA degree opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills which are highly valued by employers.
You’ll also have the chance to get to grips with Greek and Roman history and society, architecture and archaeology, warfare and empire, gender, religion, politics and economics, or to learn about ancient Egypt.
You can also choose to learn ancient Greek or Latin.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula,
Your degree programme will be delivered through lectures, tutorials and seminars and you will have the option to study a semester abroad in either USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
If you prefer to stay closer to home, and you want to enhance your student experience and career prospects, you can gain teaching experience by leading workshops for the South West Wales Reaching Wider Partnership.
You will start the degree course in your second year , after progression from the foundation year, you will focus on the political, social and cultural history of the Greek and Roman world as well as the transition from Classical antiquity to the Medieval world.
During your four-year Ancient History degree you will have an personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and The Society of Ancient Studies and History student society organises social and cultural events.
To enhance your employability prospects we offer work placements through the Literacy to Latin Project to Universities.
These placements are within Small to Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and charities only.
In your second year you can choose to take the module, Ancient and Historic Places, and you get the opportunity to go on a study trip or field project focusing on a specific region or place.
Students on this course typically develop excellent oral and writing skills and you will also learn to develop your ideas in a wide range of formats, along with strong research, analytical and problem-solving skills.
Your first year will be spent on your Foundation, preparing you for Higher Education.
Topics on this foundation including skills development and introductions to key themes on your degree, including Academic Writing and Skills Development, Critical Reflection and Problem Solving, and History, Memory and the Creation of Identity.
After successfully completing your Foundation, you’ll move on to your BA degree.
You’ll study two compulsory modules and four optional modules, with topics including Greek, Latin, Gods and Heroes, Ancient History, Society and Culture, and a Field Trip.
Year 3 consists entirely of optional modules, allowing you to shape your own learning, with topics typically including Archaic Greece, Gender in the Roman World, Plato’s Republic, and a Schools Work Placement, teaching ancient history and languages.
Your degree with culminate in year 4, with a wide range of optional modules that can include Culture and Control in Roman Britain, advanced levels of Greek or Latin, Ancient and Medieval Monarchy, and a compulsory Classics, Ancient History and Egyptology Dissertation.
NOTE : Choose AT LEAST TWO AND UP TO FOUR of the following modules.
If you intend to pursue a pathway in Latin, you should take two Latin modules.
If you intend to pursue a pathway in Greek, you should take two Greek modules.
Students should not take modules in more than one beginning ancient language in the year.
NOTE : You may, but do not need to, select one or two of these modules to make a total of 120 credits for the whole year (after your compulsory modules).
Choose Minimum Of 80 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Select AT LEAST FOUR AND UP TO SIX of the following 20 credit modules: Select at least one module with a CLH code in each semester.
Students must select three modules per semester
NOTE : Students may but do not need to select one or two of these modules to complete a total of 120 credits for the year.
NOTE : Select at least two and up to four of the following 20 credit modules:  To enrol in a TB2 Latin or Greek module you should normally enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
You must select 60 credits per teaching block.
NOTE : You may select one or two these 20 credit modules to complete a total of 120 credits spread equally across the year.
Students must not pursue more than 60 credits in any one teaching block

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-ancient-history:
Ancient History explores and examines the cultures of ancient Greece and Rome—and their interactions with the world beyond.
Studying this three-year BA degree will introduce you to theories, methodologies, and sources (including archaeology) to help you grasp the variety of lived experience in the ancient world.
The rigour we aim to foster in your thinking will open up a range of exciting career opportunities for you in a broad range of professions.
You’ll have the chance to get to grips with Greek and Roman history and society, architecture and archaeology, warfare and empire, gender, religion, politics and economics—or learn about ancient Egypt.
You can also learn ancient Greek or Latin.
As part of this programme, you will have the option to study a semester abroad in a location such as the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong, or Singapore, during your second year, or to spend a full year abroad after your second year.
We also have a study trip module which affords you the opportunity to bolster your in-depth study of classical lands overseas by seeing one in real life.
Closer to home, the first-year heritage module will, should you choose to do it, give you insight into the past in its place here in fertile and storied Wales.
You can choose to study a great selection of topics in our discipline, working with world-recognised experts in the field.
We have expertise in, and regularly publish on, areas from the Greek city states and their geographers, Cyprus through the ages, and Alexander the Great to Roman Syria, Pompeii, and the bishops and emperors of the later Roman empire.
Your degree programme will be delivered through lectures, seminars and research supervision; we offer numerous creative and engaging modes of tailored assessment, including blogposts, presentations, and website design, alongside exams, essays, and the third-year dissertation.
Throughout your Ancient History degree, you will each have an persomal tutor from among the teaching staff to lend academic support.
We are a close-knit community which enjoys exploring the ancient world beyond the classroom.
Our student-run Ancient World Society organises social and cultural events, including museum trips.
Our staff have contacts in the heritage sector, and you can volunteer at local museums while you are here, including our own fabulous Egypt Centre , which houses over 5,000 archaeological objects.
We have close links with local schools, in part via the Welsh Classics Hwb , as well as the Schools Work Placement module, where you can gain valuable classroom experience by teaching students about the ancient world for university credit.
In year 1, you will study two compulsory and four optional modules, with a range of topics typically available, including Greek, Latin, Ancient Philosophy and Rhetoric, Medieval Europ and The Early Modern World
Year 2 consists entirely of optional modules, allowing you to shape your own learning, with topics typically including Archaic Greece, The Heirs of Rome, Gender in the Roman World, Plato’s Republic, and Alexander and the Hellenistic World.
You’ll also have the opportunity to undertake a School’s placement module teaching history and ancient languages, and a guided research project.
Year 3 of your studies again gives you free choice to select your own modules, which can include advanced levels of Greek or Latin, as well as modules on the Ancient and Medieval Monarchy, Culture and Control in Roman Britain, all culminating in a Classics, Ancient History and Egpytology Dissertation.
If you decide to undertake a Year in Industry or a Year Abroad, these will take place between your second and third years of study, making your degree four years total.
Students  must select three modules per semester
Students must not exceed 60 credits per teaching block.
NOTE : Students may (but do not have to) select one or two modules from this list to make up their 120 credits for the year.
Students must not select more than 60 credits in any one semester
Students must select three modules per semester.
Our degrees are taught by experts who have a wealth of knowledge to pass on to our students.
We have a personal mentoring system where you will be allocated an personal tutor.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-ancient-medieval-history:
Ancient and Medieval History explores and examines civilisations that may appear distant but remain influential even today, and studying this three-year BA degree opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills, which are highly valued by employers.
You’ll have the chance to explore the history of Europe and Mediterranean regions from the ancient Athenians and Persians to the Crusades, and from the Roman Empire to the medieval kingdoms of England and France as well as the Welsh ‘age of the princes’, taking a variety of historical and archaeological approaches.
Your degree programme will be delivered through lectures, tutorials and seminars and during your second year you will have the option to study a semester abroad in either USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
You also have the option to add a Year Abroad or Year in Industry to your degree.
The four year programme with a Year Abroad involves a year spent studying at one of our international partner institutions.
This will take place between after your second year and enables you to develop key international focused skills and experience.
Alternatively, you the opportunity to spend a Year In Industry, in the UK or overseas (locations are dependent on VISA restrictions per country), giving valuable workplace experience.
During your Ancient and Medieval History degree you will have a personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and The Society of Ancient Studies and History student society organises social and cultural events.
Our interdisciplinary approach means you make connections with a range of subject areas – from examining past cultures to covering over two millennia of history across the European continent and the Mediterranean world.
You can tailor your degree to your own interests with a variety of topics to choose from.
The first year of your degree includes two compulsory modules and four optional modules, with choices typically including Greek History and Society, Gods and Heroes, Greek, Latin, and a Field Trip.
Year 2 is made up of one compulsory module and five optionals, with your choice of topics typically including Archaic Greece, The Heirs of Rome, a Schools Placement teaching ancient history and languages, and the Anglo-Norman World.
Your third year includes a wide variety of optional modules, which can include Pompeii and the Cities of Vesuvius, Culture and Control in Roman Britain, advanced levels of Greek or Latin, and a compulsory Dissertation.
If you choose to undertake a Year Abroad or Year in Industry, this will take place between your second and third years of study.
NOTE : You must select either one or both of the following modules
NOTE : Select enough credits from the following modules to give you 60 credits total in each teaching block.
Modern Languages modules in semester 2,  MLF102, MLG109, MLS131,  may ONLY be selected with the corresponding language module in semester 1
Choose Maximum Of 100 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Overall students need to select a total of five modules.
Three for TB1 and two for TB2.
Students should select a minimum of four modules of Ancient History and four modules of Medieval History over the course of their 2nd and 3rd years.
To enrol in a TB2 language module students must also enrol in the corresponding TB1 module
NOTE : To enrol in a TB2 language module students must also enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
Students should only take up one beginners language per academic year.
NOTE : Select either CLD300 OR HIH3300 as your dissertation module.
If you select HIH3300 you must select a medieval subject
Choose Maximum Of 80 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Select FOUR modules, TWO in each semester .
Students should take a minimum of four modules in Ancient History and four modules in Medieval History over the course of their second and third years.
To select a TB2 Language option students must enrol in the corresponding TB1 language module.
NOTE : Students should take a minimum of four modules in Ancient History and four modules in Medieval History over the course of their second and third years.
NOTE : To select a TB2 Language option students must enrol in the corresponding TB1 language module.
Modern Languages modules in semester 2, MLF102, MLG109, MLS131, may ONLY be selected with the corresponding language module in semester 1

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/fdscapplbusman:
This programme will be awarded by Swansea University and delivered by Coleg Cambria at its new Business Management Centre at Northop.
You will graduate from this programme with a strong grounding in both the practical and theoretical aspects of contemporary business management.
This includes an in-depth understanding and appreciation of issues relevant to businesses in which you will be employed during your study.
The Applied Business Management programme will equip you with the skills and tools needed to play a valuable part in delivering a sustainable, inclusive and innovative future economy.
Residential accommodation is not available.
Blended flexible learning 26 days per academic year afternoon and evening (26-half days out of the workplace).
The School of Management is accredited by AACSB International, the world’s largest business education association, connecting business schools, businesses and learners, to create the next generation of great leaders.
In choosing the Applied Business Management degree you will study a broad spectrum of business and management topics (such as marketing, operations management, finance, accounting, strategy and human resource management).
All modules are taught by our leading business tutors who have a breadth of industrial and academic knowledge and regularly train business leaders from across Wales.
Cambria has outstanding connections with many businesses and business leaders throughout North Wales, with guest business speakers, presentations and opportunities to network.
We are an experienced provider of apprenticeship routes, including for business management.
You will study in our brand new HE Business Management Centre.
This programme is designed for the student who wants to excel and reach the top level of global business management practice.
This course is designed to allow you to study and work at the same time.
It is aimed at anyone who wants to develop their business and management skills in a vocational context.
It will give you the skills needed for a successful career in business and/or management.
You will study 4 modules in year 1 (Finance, Accounting & Analytics, Marketing, Human Resource Management and Operations Management 1), and a further 4 in year 2 (Business Management 1, Operations Management 2, Organisational project 1 and Leadership & International Human Resource Management).
Prince2 Foundation is also offered as an optional extra on year 2; this project management qualification is a valuable asset to employers.
Successful completion of all modules in Years 1 and 2 will enable students to achieve a Foundation Degree (the FdSc in Applied Business Management).
Completion of the FdSc will allow progression onto the BSc Applied Business Management in Year 3 where you will study 3 modules (Business Management 2, Leadership and Organisational Project 2).
The modules have been designed to focus on Learning Outcomes – two of which will be personally and professionally developed between the student, personal tutor and employer mentor.
These outcomes will form part of a learning contract and provide the basis for coursework and assessment, for example, a portfolio of evidence and written report.
Students with a Business Management degree are very employable as they have the full range of business skills needed.
Opportunities for careers include accountancy, marketing, human resources, logistics, business development and sales.
For example, you will be able to show a comprehensive understanding of major business theories; respond critically to contemporary arguments; evaluate the aims and impact of social and economic policies.
Due to the innovative nature of this course, you will be able to simultaneously learn and practice your skills in your workplace, with mentors to guide you throughout your studies.
Disclaimer: Module selection options may change.
ABB-BBB
DDM
32 points
Delivered in partnership with Coleg Cambria, you will be taught by a team of experienced academics from research, academic and industry backgrounds.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management.
Coleg Cambria has outstanding connections with many businesses and throughout North Wales; their tutors have a breadth of knowledge and regularly train business leaders from across Wales.
You will have support from both institutions throughout your studies.
N/A to students undertaking this degree.
Application information – UK and EU students.
For further guidance please visit our how to apply pages.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-applied-mathematics:
If you love mathematics, and want to see how it works and how it is used in a wide variety of contexts, then the Applied Mathematics degree at Swansea University is the course for you.
Our three-year BSc degree in Applied Mathematics covers the most important mathematical concepts in linear and abstract algebra, real and complex analysis, probability and differential equations, and the ways these are applied in game theory, financial markets, cancer modelling, dynamical systems, quantum mechanics, machine learning, data science, and other areas.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned applied mathematicians including Dr Gibin Powathil , Associate Professor who develops multi-scale models of cancer growth, and Prof Chenggui Yuan , Professor of Mathematics, an expert in stochastic control theory and random population dynamics.
Mathematics graduates typically earn salaries 50% higher than the average graduate.
Mathematicians are highly sought after in lucrative industries such as the actuarial profession, the financial sector, technology and systems administration Our graduates have recently gained employment at organisations including AXA, British Airways, Deutsche Bank, Shell Research, Health Authorities and Local Government.
What our students say about Mathematics at Swansea
You will study the following compulsory modules and select from a choice of optional modules over the course of your degree.
As you progress through your course you will have more flexibility to study more of the topics that interest you, culminating, in your final year with a 30-credit project module, studying an area of Mathematics of your choosing.
Please note that Optional Modules may change from year to year.
NOTE : Choose one module.
NOTE : Subject to pre-requisite requirements.
NOTE : Students must take at least 15 credits from the following Applied Mathematics modules.
Subject to pre-requisite requirements.
Our BSc Applied Mathematics will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications , when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
We offer both a Personal Tutor and peer mentoring.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/applied-medical-sciences-with-foundation-year-bsc-hons:
BSc Applied Medical Sciences with a Foundation Year – UCAS Code B146
BSc Applied Medical Sciences with a Foundation Year and a Year Abroad – UCAS Code B10C
MSci Applied Medical Sciences with a Foundation Year – UCAS Code B1MF
If you’re interested in medical sciences but don’t have the required entry qualifications to join our BSc programme or are a mature student returning to education, our BSc with a Foundation Year is the right course for you.
The foundation year of this four-year course will introduce you to the key concepts and knowledge you need to progress to the BSc in Applied Medical Sciences.
Following successful completion of the Foundation Year with at least a 60% overall average, students will progress onto Year 1 of the BSc.
Students may also progress onto Year 1 of the Medical Pharmacology BSc programme (B210) or Population Health and Medical Sciences BSc programme (B211).
You will cover the fundamentals of biological chemistry, metabolism and homeostasis, microbiology and disease, molecular biology, data handling and analysis, and laboratory skills.
Progressing to the full BSc programme, you will gain a thorough grounding in the science underpinning modern medicine, studying a wide range of topics including human anatomy and physiology, cell biology, genetics, pharmacology, and neuroscience, together with their clinical and applied relevance.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of how the human body works, what happens when it goes wrong, how we currently treat disorders, and the potential for novel therapeutics.
A combination of compulsory and optional modules gives you the scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career aspirations, or plans for post-graduate study.
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research and teaching facilities at the Medical School, including the anatomy suite and research laboratories.
Swansea University’s BSc in Applied Medical Sciences is one of the only undergraduate programmes of its kind in the UK that offers Year 1 students experience of cadaver-based anatomy.
You will also join the Medical School’s dynamic research community when completing your final year research project.
This course provides a comprehensive grounding relevant to careers in lab research, medicine and commercial enterprise in the life sciences.
We have 3 Employability strands to choose from in your second year (subject to eligibility):  Medical Science in Practice, Enterprise and Innovation, and Medical Science in Research.
Our 4-year BSc degree is part of our ‘Medical Science in Practice’ Pathway to Medicine programme.
Provided you meet the minimum entry requirements for Graduate Entry Medicine , and have successfully completed the Pathway , you will be guaranteed an interview for our flagship Medicine (Graduate Entry) MBBCh course, which is consistently ranked top 5 in the UK.
You can choose to study Applied Medical Sciences with a Foundation Year as a:
On successful completion of the Foundation Year, and providing you meet the entry requirements, you will have the choice to proceed on to your choice of BSc or MSci degree in Applied Medical Sciences.
Studying the 4-year BSc, you will undertake a mix of compulsory and optional modules, giving you the flexibility to tailor your degree to your particular interests, career ambitions, or plans for further study.
Adding a year abroad, as part of the 5-year BSc option, will allow you to add invaluable international experience to your CV while building intercultural communication skills that will improve your ability to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds.
If you choose the MSci programme, after completing your foundation year, you will proceed onto a 4-year programme including an integrated master’s degree, with the extra year spent undertaking a research project.
With a strong entrepreneurial and innovation slant, our BSc in Applied Medical Sciences is ideal if you are interested in a career in emerging science, product development, pharmaceuticals, or biotechnology.
It also provides an excellent base for graduate entry into more clinically focused studies, including medicine, post-graduate research or Physician Associate Studies.
Examples of careers that graduates in this area have progressed to are included below:
The 4-Year BSc structure is as follows:
In the foundation year you will learn the basics of human biology, biological chemistry, data handling and laboratory practice.
Year 2 is made up of compulsory modules covering human physiology, molecular genetics and microbiology.
In Year 3, you will choose from one of three Employability Strands (subject to eligibility):
In your third year, you will complete an independent research project under the guidance of a professional research scientist.
Students have conducted projects in a broad range of areas, from novel treatments for leukaemia to giant viruses, to analysis of hospital data and applying virtual reality in healthcare.
You will also study modules in areas such as reproductive biology, nanotoxicology and cancer pharmacology.
If you choose to undertake a year abroad, this will take place between the third and fourth years of study listed above.
If you choose to study the MSci equivalent, you will study the four years above, followed by an additional year at master’s level, consisting of an independent research project.
NOTE : Please select one of the following modules.
NOTE : Please select the following module for the Medical Research pathway.
NOTE : Please select the following module for the Medical Science in Practice pathway.
NOTE : Please select the following module for the Enterprise and Innovation pathway.
NOTE : Choose exactly 40 credits from any optional module available across BOTH teaching blocks.
Please note this may result in an unbalanced timetable and thus the student is responsible for time management.
NOTE : Please select 40 credits from the following modules:
NOTE : Choose exactly 60 credits from ANY optional modules across BOTH teaching blocks.
Please note that this may result in an unbalanced timetable and thus the student is responsible for time management.
Sorry - we don't currently have information about modules for this course type
NOTE : Students select 60 credits from the following optional modules.
To note: Students to select modules across BOTH teaching blocks.
Applied Medical Sciences students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest medical research.
Principle teaching staff for the Applied Medical Sciences programme are:
You will also be taught by a range of other research-active experts with specialisms including biomarkers, genes, microbes, immunity, patient population and health informatics and medical devices.
Teaching will be delivered by academic staff, clinical lecturers, and other experts.
Personal Tutor:
You will be assigned a Personal Tutor from a pool of trained personnel drawn from academic staff in the Medical School, or possibly clinical staff from Health Boards for GEM and PA.
Personal Tutors are your first point of contact while studying at the Medical School and can provide assistance and guidance on a range of issues that may affect your wellbeing, attendance and educational progress.
Personal Tutors may also help with your personal development planning and careers advice.
Your tutor may also direct you to Welfare and other support services as appropriate.
Student Life Officer:
Our Student Life Officer focuses on student support and identifying students who may need to be referred on the services both within and outside of the University, and working with these students to put a plan in place to manage their welfare.
This officer is trained to recognise signs of domestic abuse, hate crimes through to dealing with homesickness and any other pastoral issues.
Medical School Information Office:
Our team of administrators and student information co-ordinators are on hand to support with your academic queries and signpost you to additional services where required.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/applied-medical-sciences-bsc-hons:
BSc Applied Medical Sciences – UCAS Code B100
BSc Applied Medical Sciences with a Placement Year – UCAS Code B10P
BSc Applied Medical Sciences with a Year Abroad - UCAS Code B10A
MSci Applied Medical Sciences – UCAS Code B1MO
Y ou might also be interested in BSc Applied Medical Sciences with a Foundation Year - UCAS Code B146
Gain a thorough grounding in the science underpinning medicine with a degree in Applied Medical Sciences
You will study a comprehensive range of topics, including human anatomy and physiology, cell biology, genetics, pharmacology, and neuroscience, together with their clinical and applied relevance.
A degree in Applied Medical Science provides a comprehensive grounding relevant to careers in laboratory research, medicine and commercial enterprise in the life sciences.
We have three employability strands to choose from in your second year (subject to eligibility): Medical Science in Practice, Enterprise and Innovation, and Medical Science in Research.
These have been specially designed with experts to provide you with an insight into potential career options.
A combination of compulsory and optional modules gives you the scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career aspirations, or plans for post-graduate study.
You will benefit from access to the Medical School's state-of-the-art research and teaching facilities, including the anatomy suite and research laboratories.
Our 3-year BSc degree is part of our ‘Medical Science in Practice’ Pathway to Medicine programme.
Provided you meet the minimum entry requirements for Graduate Entry Medicine , and have successfully completed the Pathway , you will be guaranteed an interview for our flagship Graduate Entry Medicine MBBCh course , which is consistently ranked top 5 in the UK.
You can choose to study Applied Medical Sciences as a:
Studying the 3-year BSc, you will undertake a mix of compulsory and optional modules, giving you the flexibility to tailor your degree to your particular interests, career ambitions, or plans for further study.
The 4-year programme with a year in industry offers an additional placement year between the second and final year, giving you the opportunity to experience work in industry, and allowing you to build confidence and gain real-world experience.
Adding a year abroad, as part of the 4year BSc option, allows you to add invaluable international experience to your CV while building intercultural communication skills that will improve your ability to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds.
Our 4-year MSci is an advanced undergraduate degree including an integrated master’s qualification, with the extra year spent undertaking a research project, allowing you to develop your skills and knowledge.
You can find more information on our Applied Medical Science degrees by visiting our Biomedical Sciences Quick Guide.
The 3-Year BSc structure is as follows:
Your first year is made up of compulsory modules covering the essential foundations of biochemistry, including human physiology, chemistry, molecular genetics, and microbiology.
In Year 2, you will choose from one of three Employability Strands (subject to eligibility):
You will also study modules in areas such as reproductive biology, nanotoxicology, diabetes, and cancer pharmacology.
If you choose to undertake a year in industry or year abroad, this will take place between the second and third years of study listed above.
If you choose to study the MSci equivalent, you will study the three years above, followed by an additional year at master’s level, consisting of an independent research project.
NOTE : Please select the following module for the Medical Research Pathway.
NOTE : Please select 40 credits from the following modules.
NOTE : Students to select modules across BOTH teaching blocks.
Applied Medical Sciences students will be taught by a range of world-leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest medical research.
Principal teaching staff for the Applied Medical Sciences programme include:
You will be assigned a Personal Tutor from a pool of trained personnel drawn from academic staff in the Medical School, or possibly clinical staff from Health Boards for GEM and PA.
Personal Tutors may also help with your personal development planning and careers advice.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/computer-science/bsc-applied-software-engineering:
The BSc in Applied Software Engineering is an innovative and flexible way for individuals to gain a degree in Software Engineering whilst in employment.
The course is open only to employees of regional companies and organisations.
The programme is 3-years long, where each year consists of three trimesters.
Lectures and labs are delivered on campus every Wednesday from 1pm-8pm.
The programme has been designed with the support of an industrial advisory panel in order to meet existing skills gaps in industry.
It covers the full breadth of Software Engineering, combining traditional academic teaching with work-based learning.
25% of the assessment is based on transferring academic knowledge to the workplace.
If you are looking for a University course that is relevant to the IT sector and can be completed whilst you work, then the BSc in Applied Software Engineering Degree in Software Engineering is an ideal option.
The programme benefits you by furthering your knowledge and career opportunities, whilst also furthering the success of your employer.
We have the latest high quality teaching and research equipment in our new £32.5m Computational Foundry including a Vision and Biometric Lab, Maker Lab, TechHealth Lab, Theory Lab, Cyber Security/Networking Lab, User Lab and Visualisation Suite.
*based on the average positivity score per theme in the NSS 2025 when ranked against universities as featured in the Times Good University Guide.
The BSc in Applied Software Engineering is a 3-year programme where each year consists of three trimesters.
Each trimester consists of two taught modules worth 20 credits each.
Taught modules are typically assessed with a combination of lab work, coursework and two class tests (a Mid-Term Test and End-Term Test).
The pass mark for every module is 40%.
At the end of each trimester, students will be offered the opportunity to redeem any failed modules (i.e., a module with a mark of less than 40%) from the current trimester.
In addition to the taught modules, a Work-Based Portfolio module runs throughout each of the first two academic years.
These are core modules and must be passed.
Each taught module contains a Work-Based Portfolio task where the knowledge acquired from that module is put into practice in the workplace.
The marks achieved in these tasks are evaluated as a whole to deduce whether a student has passed or failed the module.
The work-based tasks are completed in the student’s own time.
In the final year, a 40-credit work-based Project module runs through the whole academic year.
This is also a core module, and includes the specification, development and implementation of a substantial software project.
A visual overview of the structure of the BSc in Applied Software Engineering is given below.
Fine details of each of the modules can be found at the end of the Course Handbook 2025-26 .
Term Dates 2025/2026
Term Dates 2026/2027
Term Dates 2027/28
As a work-based learning programme, we value the experience of applicants as well as formal qualifications such as A-Levels.
Formally, the entry requirements are the same as our traditional BSc Software Engineering (G600) programme .
However, we recognise relevant experience in the case of mature students who do not have adequate A levels or equivalent academic results, and the expectation is that such recognition will be made in the case of the majority of applicants to the programme.
We look at each applicant on a case by case basis.
If you are unsure or think you do not meet the entry requirements, then please get in touch and we can discuss your situation.
Non-UK/Irish applicants holding a non-settlement, temporary visa (i.e.
one that has an expiry date) must ensure they have the correct immigration permissions to work and study for the duration of the course.
The BSc course involves work-based learning, therefore immigration permissions must include the ability to work full time.
Sponsorship under the Student Route will not be possible because the course structure and delivery does not meet the necessary UKVI criteria for such sponsorship.
The course is fully funded, subject to confirmation from MEDR, which covers the full course tuition fees.
This is also subject to the student meeting the funding criteria.
International applicants, please contact seapprenticeship@swansea.ac.uk .
We are currently accepting applications for the course which will be starting in late September.
If you are interested in the course, please complete and return a BSc Applied Software Engineering Application Form
Please contact the team via seapprenticeship@swansea.ac.uk with any queries or to discuss the course.
www.technocamps.com/en/2025/06/10/case-study-roeman-kirmse/
www.technocamps.com/en/2025/06/06/case-study-chris-flynn/
www.technocamps.com/en/2025/03/14/case-study-victoria-goodall/
www.technocamps.com/en/2025/02/14/case-study-jake-laycock/
www.technocamps.com/en/2021/09/01/case-study-dave-breeze/
www.technocamps.com/en/2021/08/09/case-study-aled-wyn-john/
www.technocamps.com/en/2020/04/09/case-study-rhun-llwyd/
www.technocamps.com/en/2020/05/01/case-study-paul-finch/
www.technocamps.com/en/2021/01/21/case-study-alfie-hopkin/
www.technocamps.com/en/2021/02/15/case-study-sarah-clarke/
www.technocamps.com/en/2021/03/10/case-study-cheralyn-nadal/
If you have any queries or would like to have a chat about the course, please email seapprenticeship@swansea.ac.uk
You can also contact: Casey Hopkins, Programme Director on 01792 295152 or Maria Moller, Business Liaison Officer on 01792 606998
Please consider signing-up to our mailing list to receive updates about our Degree Apprenticeships schemes and other training opportunities .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/physics/bsc-astrophysics-with-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on the BSc in Astrophysics, then this 4-year programme, with a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year, which covers core concepts in Physics and Mathematics, is a great way to gain the knowledge and skills needed for your Astrophysics undergraduate degree.
The Foundation Year is integrated, meaning you’ll be taught in the same department on the Singleton Campus throughout your four years.
On completion of the Foundation Year, you will spend three years studying towards your undergraduate degree, which will take you on a journey to unlock the mysteries of the Universe!
Our Astrophysics programme is designed to offer a wide range of learning opportunities to enrich your academic journey and give you the skills you need for your future.
You will gain a solid understanding of fundamental concepts and techniques, forming the foundation needed to unlock the secrets of the cosmos.
Building on these foundations and taught by active researchers, you’ll delve deeper into the Universe, studying topics such as stellar evolution, galactic dynamics, gravitational waves and cosmology.
You will go beyond lectures, with hands-on practical experience using telescopes and detectors, and analysing real astronomical data.
Your final year project allows you to conduct your own independent research in an astrophysics area, potentially using data from an observatory field trip.
Our programme aims to create well-rounded astrophysicists equipped with not only the necessary scientific knowledge and skills but also the critical thinking, communication, and adaptability to thrive in the ever-evolving world of scientific exploration and discovery.
Your Astrophysics Journey Awaits!
Physics at Swansea University is a highly regarded department that attracts students from across the world, and is ranked:
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational academics such as Prof Gianmassimo Tasinato , internationally renowned for his research contributions in gravitational wave astronomy and cosmology, and Dr Sarah Roberts , an expert in using robotic telescopes for education to engage and inspire learners.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate BSc Astrophysics degree.
Teaching on the Foundation Year takes place in smaller class sizes, allowing for a more personalised experience.
In addition to this, you will benefit from having access to:
Our Swansea Physics graduates have excelled in a wide range of careers, including roles as research physicists, data scientists, AI and software engineers, demand forecasters, patent examiners, and quantitative finance analysts.
Our alumni network illustrates their involvement across many sectors, such as government research, aerospace, defence, energy, nuclear, engineering, the private sector, education, and space exploration.
We take pride in the strong connections they maintain with the department and are delighted to showcase their career advancements to our current students.
Your first year of study will be your Foundation Year, which covers a mix of key themes in Physics and Mathematics, such as Mechanics, Atoms, Nuclei and Particles, and Foundation Mathematics for Physicists.
On successful completion of your Foundation Year, you will spend a further three years working towards your BSc.
Year 2 is predominantly made up of compulsory modules, covering more in-depth topics such as Astronomy and Cosmology, and Quantum Mechanics.
Your third year also comprises of compulsory modules, building on your existing knowledge with modules covering a range of topics including Stellar Astrophysics, Electromagnetism and Thermal and Statistical Physics.
The fourth and final year compounds your existing knowledge with a range of specialist modules, covering Galactic Dynamics, Frontiers of Nucleic Physics and Advanced Astronomical Techniques.
NOTE : Choose between Welsh and English option
NOTE : You can choose not to select this module
There are opportunities for Welsh speakers to study some elements of this course through the medium of Welsh but there is not yet enough provision to reach 40 credits in each year.
Seeking IOP accreditation that will be backdated upon approval.
The Physics department also has Juno Practioner status.
You will be taught by lecturers passionate about igniting your curiosity about the cosmos who are actively shaping our understanding of the universe.
See all of the Physics staff
Each student is assigned a Personal Tutor to help with:
There are student representatives in each year of our programmes as well as school representatives for undergraduate students.
The Schools also have a dedicated Student Information Office who will be able to offer academic assistance throughout your studies.
Student Societies
At Swansea, we have a range of science and maths societies,  which offer opportunities for you to meet fellow students and take part in a variety of activities.
These societies are all run for students, by students, and include:
Contact Details

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/physics/bsc-astrophysics:
Join us on a journey to unlock the mysteries of the Universe!
You will gain a solid understanding of fundamental physics concepts and mathematical techniques, forming the foundation needed to unlock the secrets of the cosmos.
Throughout the programme, you will be assessed through a range of diverse assessments – from reports and scientific posters to exams and presentations, allowing you to showcase your skills in communication, teamwork, research and more.
Physics at Swansea University is a highly regarded department that attracts students from across the world, did you know that:
11 th in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2025)
3 rd in the UK for Teaching Quality (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational academics such as Prof Gianmassimo Tasinato , internationally renowned for his research contributions in gravitational wave astronomy and cosmology and Dr Sarah Roberts , an expert in using robotic telescopes for education to engage and inspire learners.
A significant percentage of our graduates go on to pursue postgraduate studies and research with a wide variety of specialisations.
You will follow a degree path of the following compulsory and optional 10 and 20 credit modules.
Seeking IOP accreditation that will be back dated upon approval.
Professor Prem Kumar Co-Head of Department
Professor Gianmassimo Tasinato
Dr Sarah Roberts Admissions Tutor
See our dedicated webpages for further guidance on suitable devices to purchase, and for a full guide on getting your device set up.
Year 3:
Students may attend an international field course as space allows but they pay the full cost of the field course (e.g.
currently £900 for Teide Observatory, Tenerife).
UK-based field course options will be available, with costs for those covered by the department.
You’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills such as analysis, lab techniques, report writing and a high level of digital technology skills.
You’ll also be highly numerate, which many employers value highly.
Physics graduates are set for rewarding employment opportunities.
Careers in any of the following fields are open to you.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/basic-audiological-practice-he-cert:
The Certificate of Higher Education in Basic Audiological Practice programme is an 18-month part-time modular course, aimed at individuals currently employed within the NHS as an Assistant or Associate Audiologist who are nominated by their Head of Service.
Throughout the course you will gain the knowledge and understanding required to practice at Associate/Assistant level in a hospital Audiology Department, supporting quantitative assessment and management of patients with hearing-related problems.
You will learn how to assess hearing capacity and the clinical nature of the course will provide the practical skills needed for employment in the profession.
The work involves treating, monitoring and preventing disorders of the auditory system.
A large part of this involves the assessment of hearing capacity of adult patients re-accessing the audiology service, followed by rehabilitation of impairment.
This is largely achieved by fitting, verification and adjustment of hearing aids and then training patients on how to use the hearing aids effectively.
Our excellent facilities provide realistic workplace simulations and many of our academic staff in Health Sciences are practicing clinicians, providing invaluable professional insight and expertise.
You will also benefit from a real-life patient setting in our award-winning Health and Wellbeing Academy, an on-site clinic that provides health and wellbeing services for the local community including an audiology clinic in collaboration with the NHS.
Our course has been developed to give you the knowledge and understanding required to advance your career and practice at Associate/Assistant level in a hospital Audiology Department.
You will be expected to have:
Essential:
Desirable:
Non-typical applicants :-
You will have achieved the above academic standard or equivalent and be able to evidence recent learning (typically within the last 3 years).
OR
You will have passed a suitable education programme, e.g.
Access to Science.
This must include a minimum standard equivalent of GCSE in English/Welsh and Mathematics.
We do not accept Access to Health and Social as an entry requirement.
Will have worked within an Audiology Department and during this period have acquired an understanding of Audiological principles and a portfolio of competences.
The application will need to be supported by your Head of Department, who will provide a detailed transcript of your knowledge and skills and vouch for your suitability for entry to the course.
Barry Bardsley
Alice Shadis
Paul Stokes
Tom Jones
Shehzad Peerbaccus
International students and part-time study: It may be possible for some students to study part-time under the Student Visa route.
However, this is dependent on factors relating to the course and your individual situation.
It may also be possible to study with us if you are already in the UK under a different visa category (e.g.
Tier 1 or 2, PBS Dependant, ILR etc.).
Please visit the University information on Visas and Immigration for further guidance and support.
How to Apply
Please contact the admissions team for an application form.
chhsadmissions@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/biochemistry-and-genetics-with-foundation-year-bsc-hons:
If you’re interested in Biochemistry and Genetics, how they links to the study of diseases, the development of pharmaceutics and the complex relationship between these and our environment, but don’t have the required entry qualifications to join our BSc programme or are a mature student returning to education, our BSc with a Foundation Year is the right course for you.
The foundation year of this four-year course will introduce you to the key concepts and knowledge you need to progress to the BSc in Biochemistry and Genetics.
Our Biochemistry and Genetics degree will give you an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
You will develop excellent project management skills and learn how to design experiments and plan work programmes.
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research facilities at the Medical School, including DNA and protein analytical equipment, computer-based image analysers for molecular or cellular studies, and a powerful supercomputer facility.
Our academic staff are active in a diverse range of biochemistry research fields, offering an unrivalled mix of academic excellence and cutting edge practice.
In addition to your formal studies, we hold regular research talks with Swansea University staff and guest expert speakers from other universities, industry, the NHS and research institutions.
You may also have the opportunity to spend time undertaking research in industrial or medical laboratories either in the UK or abroad, and can even extend your degree to include a whole year studying abroad.
Adding a year abroad allows you to add invaluable international experience to your CV while building intercultural communication skills that will improve your ability to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds.
A mix of compulsory and optional modules gives you the flexibility to tailor your degree to your particular interests, career ambitions, or plans for further study.
All of our degrees in Biochemistry and Genetics open up a range of exciting career opportunities in diverse fields including:
In the foundation year students will learn the The foundation year will provides the fundamental knowledge of biological and organic chemistry, molecular biology, data handling, and laboratory practice, giving students the knowledge to successfully progress onto year one of the BSc options in Biochemistry and Genetics.
Your second year is made up of modules covering the essential foundations of biochemistry and genetics, including energy and metabolism pathways, biochemistry skills development, organic and analytical chemistry, molecular genetics, and microbiology.
As you progress, you will further develop your knowledge, studying specialised topics including metabolic regulation, techniques in molecular biology, membranes and energy transduction, membrane trafficking, and bioinformatics.
In your final year you will complete an independent research project under the guidance of a professional research scientist.
NOTE : Please choose THREE of the following modules.
NOTE : Please choose ONE of the following modules.
NOTE : Please choose FOUR of the following modules.
You can study 80 credits or more of this course through the medium of Welsh.
Academi Hywel Teifi is here to support you throughout your time at
Swansea University.
Biochemistry students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest biochemistry research.
Principle teaching staff for the Biochemistry programme are:
Personal Tutors are your first point of contact while studying at the Medical School and can provide assistance and guidance on a range of issues that may affect your wellbeing, attendance and educational progress.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/biochemistry-and-genetics-bsc-hons:
This joint honours degree combines two complementary and overlapping disciplines, giving you in-depth knowledge of the advanced molecular biology techniques and research which are the basis for understanding all forms of life.
Molecular biology is a growing subject which is making enormous impact in many scientific areas, including the study and treatment of many human diseases, pharmaceutical development, and the complex relationships between our environment and ourselves.
You will learn about the genetic processes that occur within living organisms and study how cells work at the sub-cellular and molecular levels so gaining an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
We were one of the first universities in the UK to introduce Genetics as a BSc discipline in the 1960s so we have a very long and respected track record in this field.
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research facilities at the Medical School, including bioanalytical equipment such as HPLC, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, DNA and protein analytical equipment and computer-based image analysers for molecular or cellular studies.
You can choose to study Biochemistry and Genetics as a:
Studying the 3 year BSc, you will undertake a mix of compulsory and optional modules, giving you the flexibility to tailor your degree to your particular interests, career ambitions, or plans for further study.
Additionally, the 4-year programme with a Placement year offers an additional placement year between the second and final year, giving you the opportunity to experience work in industry, and allowing you to build confidence and gain real-world experience.
Adding a year abroad, as part of the 4-year BSc option, allows you to add invaluable international experience to your CV while building intercultural communication skills that will improve your ability to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds.
Whichever qualification you choose, you will benefit from the expertise of our academic staff who are active in a diverse range of molecular biological research fields, offering an unrivalled mix of academic excellence and cutting edge practice.
Don't think you meet the entry requirements?
Why not consider our BSc Biochemistry and Genetics with a Foundation year ?
A degree in Biochemistry and Genetics opens up a range of exciting career opportunities in diverse fields including:
You can find more information on our Biochemistry and Genetics degrees by visiting our .
Your first year is made up of modules covering the essential foundations of biochemistry and genetics, including energy and metabolism, genetic analysis or biochemistry skills development, evolutionary & molecular genetics, and microbiology.
As you progress, you will further develop your knowledge, studying specialised topics including infectious diseases and parasitology, molecular evolution, microbial molecular genetics, biotechnology & protein engineering and bioinformatics.
If you choose to undertake a year abroad, this will take place between the second and third years of study listed above.
NOTE : You must choose THREE of the following optional modules.
NOTE : You must choose ONE of the following modules.
NOTE : You must choose FOUR of the following modules.
Biochemistry and Genetics students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest biochemistry research.
Principle teaching staff for the Biochemistry and Genetics programme are:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/biochemistry-and-genetics-msci-hons:
This advanced undergraduate joint honours degree brings together two complementary and overlapping disciplines, giving you in-depth knowledge of the advanced molecular biology techniques and research which are the basis for understanding all forms of life.
The 4 year MSci is an advanced undergraduate degree, adding a further research-focused year to a 3 year BSc.
This will give you an in-depth knowledge of the fundamental building blocks of all life on earth.
The MSci programme follows our BSc in Biochemistry and Genetics course, but offers specialist training in a broad range of laboratory techniques.
In the additional year you will develop an extended, research project.
Molecular biology is a growing subject which is making enormous impact in many scientific areas that overlap with biochemistry, including the study and treatment of many human diseases, pharmaceutical development, and the complex relationships between our environment and ourselves.
You will learn about the genetic processes that occur within living organisms and how cells work at the sub-cellular and molecular levels so gaining an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
You will develop excellent project management skills and learn how to design experiments and plan work programmes
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research facilities at the Medical School, including bioanalytical equipment such as HPLC, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, DNA and protein analytical equipment, computer-based image analysers for molecular or cellular studies.
Our academic staff are active in a diverse range of molecular biological research fields, offering an unrivalled mix of academic excellence and cutting edge practice.
You may also have the opportunity to spend time undertaking research in industrial or medical laboratories either in the UK or abroad.
NOTE : You must choose THREE of the following modules.
Personal Tutors are your first point of contact while studying at the Medical School and can provide assistance and guidance on a range of issues that may affect your wellbeing, attendance and educational progress.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/biochemistry-with-foundation-year-bsc-hons:
If you’re interested in Biochemistry, how it links to the study of diseases, the development of pharmaceutics and the complex relationship between these and our environment, but don’t have the required entry qualifications to join our BSc programme or are a mature student returning to education, our BSc with a Foundation Year is the right course for you.
The foundation year of this four-year course will introduce you to the key concepts and knowledge you need to progress to the BSc in Biochemistry.
Our Biochemistry degrees will give you an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
All of our degrees in Biochemistry open up a range of exciting career opportunities in diverse fields including:
In the foundation year students will learn the The foundation year will provides the fundamental knowledge of biological and organic chemistry, molecular biology, data handling, and laboratory practice, giving students the knowledge to successfully progress onto year one of the BSc options in Biochemistry.
Your second year is made up of modules covering the essential foundations of biochemistry, including energy and metabolism pathways, biochemistry skills development, organic and analytical chemistry, molecular genetics, and microbiology.
If you choose to undertake a year abroad, this will take place between the third and fourth years of study.
NOTE : Please choose 30 credits from the following modules.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/biochemistry-bsc-hons:
Biochemistry is crucial to the study and treatment of diseases, the development of pharmaceuticals, and the complex relationships with our environment.
You will learn about the chemical processes that occur within living organisms and how cells work at the sub-cellular and molecular levels.
You’ll gain an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research facilities at the Medical School, including bioanalytical equipment such as high performance liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, DNA and protein analytical equipment, computer-based image analysers for molecular or cellular studies.
You can choose to study Biochemistry as a:
Adding a year abroad, as part of the 4-year BSc option, allows you to add invaluable international experience to your CV, while building intercultural communication skills that will improve your ability to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds.
Alternatively, the 4-year programme, with a placement year, offers an additional year between the second and final year, giving you the opportunity to work in industry, enabling you to build confidence and gain real-world experience.
Our 4-year MSci is an advanced undergraduate degree including an integrated master’s year, with the extra year spent undertaking a research project, allowing you to develop your skills and knowledge.
Why not consider our BSc Biochemistry with a Foundation year ?
A degree in Biochemistry opens up a range of exciting career opportunities in diverse fields including:
You can find more information on our Biochemistry degrees by visiting our .
Your first year is made up of modules covering the essential foundations of biochemistry, including energy and metabolism, biochemistry skills development, organic chemistry, molecular genetics, and microbiology.
If you choose to undertake a year in industry or year abroad, this will take place between the second and third years of study.
If you choose to study the MSci equivalent, you will study three years at undergraduate level, followed by an additional year at master’s level, consisting of an independent research project.
NOTE : You must choose 30 credits from the modules below.
NOTE : You must select ONE of the following modules.
Your tutor may also direct you to Welfare and other support services as appropriate.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/biochemistry-msci-hons:
The MSci programme follows our BSc in Biochemistry course, but offers specialist training in a broad range of laboratory techniques.
This advanced undergraduate degree follows our BSc Biochemistry programme with an additional year for you to develop an extended, advanced, independent research project.
You will also have additional specialist training in a broad range of laboratory techniques during the third year as preparation for this work.
In this advanced undergraduate degree you will learn about the chemical processes that occur within living organisms and how cells work at the molecular and sub-cellular levels and gain an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research facilities at the Medical School, including bioanalytical equipment such as high-performance liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, DNA and protein analytical equipment, and computer-based image analysers for molecular or cellular studies.
Our academic staff are active in a diverse range of genetics research fields, offering an unrivalled mix of academic excellence and cutting edge practice.
Your first year is made up of compulsory modules covering the essential foundations of biochemistry, including energy and metabolism, biochemistry skills development, organic chemistry, molecular genetics, and microbiology.
In your final years you will complete an advanced independent research project under the guidance of a professional research scientist.
NOTE : You must choose 30 credits from the following modules.
NOTE : Please select one of the following modules,

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/biosciences/bsc-biological-science-with-deferred-choice:
A deep academic understanding of life on Earth is now more important than ever.
Studying living organisms in all their fascinating variety helps us to identify critical threats and major opportunities, from the smallest scale to the largest.
This three-year biology degree gives you the flexibility to explore natural life wherever your interests lie.
Local, residential, and international field courses allow you to work in varied habitats.
You can explore the spectacular marine coastal ecosystems, freshwater environments, and terrestrial habitats of the Gower Peninsula on our doorstep.
You will benefit from excellent teaching facilities for ecological, physiological, and molecular studies, including new laboratory facilities, the Centre for Sustainable Aquatic Research , a zoology museum, a custom-designed 18-metre research vessel, and a unique visualisation suite to explore in unrivalled detail complex animal movement and behaviour data.
In your final year, you will complete a research project which may be field-based, laboratory-based or purely analytical.
Biological sciences at Swansea University has a strong reputation and attracts students from across the world and is based on our stunning Singleton Park campus overlooking Swansea Bay.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Professor Rory Wilson – Chief Scientific Consultant behind National Geographic’s Great Migrations , and Dr Richard Unsworth – advisor on the globally acclaimed BBC series Blue Planet II .
Do you love Biology, but are also attracted to Zoology and Marine Biology?
Choose our Biological Sciences with deferred choice degree.
You’ll dive deep into Biology, Marine Biology, and Zoology in the first year so you can make an informed decision about which degree to complete and choose your specialisation before moving into Year 2.
Our graduate have become Ecologists, Project Officers, Hydrometry and Telemetry Officers, Benthic Taxonomists, Wildlife and Education Officers, Animal Keepers and Crop Technicians.
Our department has strong connections with international and national organisations such as Natural Resources Wales, The British Mammal Society and The National Wetlands Centre Wales which will add value to your studies.
Find out why our students love studying Bioscience at Swansea.
Watch the sea trials of our new catamaran-class survey vessel, the R.V.
Mary Anning
Find out about how we are helping to restore seagrass habitats
You will study the following set compulsory modules and select from a choice of optional modules over the course of your degree.
In your final year you will take a ten-week 30-credit biosciences research project module which can be field-based in the UK or overseas, laboratory-based or purely analytical.
Please note that Year 2 and 3 modules are a sample of the modules you will take.
Please visit the specific degree pages for more information.
The Biology , Marine Biology , and Zoology pages have accurate module lists.
NOTE : Biologists MUST choose ONE (and only one) of the following.
N.B.
BIO327, BIO347, GEB300 and GEB301 have limited places available.
If you are unsuccessful in securing a place on these modules, you must select from BIO331 OR BIO340.
You CANNOT select both BIO331 and BIO340
NOTE : No more than 70 credits can be selected from any one semester.
Choose Maximum Of 70 credits from the following Modules:
If you have been given a place on BIO327, you are unable to also take BIO351 due to a timetabling clash.
This programme has been accredited by the Royal Society of Biology following an independent and rigorous assessment.
Accredited degree programmes contain a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge and key skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of employers.
The accreditation criteria require evidence that graduates from accredited programmes meet defined sets of learning outcomes, including subject knowledge, technical ability and transferable skills.
Their research activities in areas such as environmental conservation, sustainable aquaculture, biocontrol and species monitoring, help to change the world for the better.
See all of the Biosciences staff
Our degree schemes in Biology, Zoology and Marine Biology are eligible for the Ysgoloriaeth Cymhelliant scholarships for those students who wish to pursue part of their studies through the Welsh language.
Students who intend to study at least 33% of their subject through the medium of Welsh can apply.
We offer 40 credits through Welsh at all levels.
More information on scholarships
*We also advise all students to have suitable outdoor clothing and sensible footwear (wellington boots)
Graduates of biological sciences are set on course for a range of stimulating opportunities.
These are a small number of their recent destinations.
All students on our undergraduate courses are assigned a Personal Tutor who will offer you not only Academic Guidance but advice on finding and accessing help with personal issues.
Our Peer mentoring scheme is in place to help new students settle into university life here at Swansea.
You can also get help with personal issues from our wide range of student support such as CampusLife, Inclusive Student Support Services and The Centre for Academic Success.
Field courses
All of our Biosciences courses have modules that involve a field course .
Swansea University is an ideal place to study Biosciences as we have outstanding locations on our doorstep for biology, zoology and marine biology.
We make the best of our locality by visiting the coastal Gower peninsula, travelling on our boat, the R.V Mary Anning, around Swansea Bay and researching the beautiful flora and fauna both on land and at sea in South Wales.
Further afield, past field course destinations have included Puerto Rico, Borneo, and Sikkim in the Indian Himalayas.
These trips of a lifetime are a great way to learn about other environments and also to bond and work collaboratively with your fellow students and lecturers.
Your year spent overseas studying biological sciences at a partner university gives an enriching cultural experience which can help to broaden your horizons when it comes to seeking employment.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/biosciences/bsc-biology-with-foundation-year:
Studying living organisms in all their amazing variety is fascinating and helps us to identify critical threats and major opportunities, from the smallest scale to the largest.
This four-year biology degree gives you the flexibility to explore natural life wherever your interests lie.
You will benefit from excellent teaching facilities for ecological, physiological, and molecular studies, including new laboratory facilities, the Centre for Sustainable Aquatic Research , a zoology museum, a custom-designed 18-metre research vessel , and a unique visualisation suite to explore in unrivalled detail complex animal movement and behaviour data.
Our four-year BSc Biology with an integrated foundation year is ideal for students who don't meet the necessary requirements to enter onto the first year of a degree course.
At the end of the Integrated Foundation year, you will progress to a BSc Biology .
If you wish to pursue a BSc in Marine Biology or a BSc in Zoology you will need to transfer onto those courses.
Mary Anning.
Find out about how we are helping to restore seagrass habitats.
NOTE : Choose exactly 15 credits from TB1.
NOTE : Choose exactly 30 credits from either Teaching Block.
The maximum credits permitted in a teaching block is 75.
95% of Graduates are in employment, study and/or study, or doing other activities such as travelling, 15 months after leaving Swansea University.
Swansea  University is an ideal place to study Biosciences as we have outstanding locations on our doorstep for biology, zoology and marine biology.
Further afield, past field course destinations have included Puerto Rico, Borneo, and Sikkim in the Indian Himalayas.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/biosciences/bsc-biology:
Biology at Swansea University has a strong reputation and draws students from across the world and is based on our stunning Singleton Park campus overlooking Swansea Bay.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Professor Rory Wilson – Chief Scientific Consultant behind National Geographic’s Great Migrations, and Dr Richard Unsworth – advisor on the globally acclaimed BBC series Blue Planet II .
NOTE : Choose exactly 15 credits from TB1
NOTE : You can select a minimum of ONE module, and a maximum of TWO..
If you choose TWO modules, you must ensure that you only select ONE PER SEMESTER..
You must only select ONE overseas course..
Choose Minimum Of 30 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Biology Recommended.
The maximum credits permitted in a teaching block is 70.
NOTE : The maximum credits permitted in a teaching block is 70.
**Important Notice: Module Clash – BIO327 and BGP300 The field trip for BIO327 (Tropical Marine Ecology) overlaps with the assessment date for BGP300.
You can still take both modules, but you must submit the BGP300 assessment early, before the BIO327 trip.
If you choose both modules, you will need to complete a consent form..
Please contact quality-scienceengineering@swansea.ac.uk**
NOTE : You can select a minimum of ONE module, and a maximum of TWO.
If you choose TWO modules, you must ensure that you only select ONE PER SEMESTER
You must only select ONE overseas course.
Choose a minimum of 30 credits.
No more than 70 credits can be selected from any one semester.
NOTE : Choose a maximum of 40 credits.
We offer both a Personal Tutor and peer mentoring.
Our Peer mentoring scheme is in place to help new students settle into university life here at Swansea.
All of our Biosciences courses have modules that involve a fi eld course .
We make the best of our locality by visiting the coastal Gower peninsula, travelling on our boat, the R.V Mary Anning, around Swansea Bay and researching the beautiful flora and fauna  both on land and at sea in South Wales.
Further afield, past field course destinations have included Puerto Rico, Borneo, and Sikkim in the Indian Himalayas.
As part of this degree scheme, you will be able to study at one of our huge range of partner universities in your third year.
Studying abroad is a great opportunity to experience another culture, make friends from around the world and gain valuable experience to prepare you for the world of work after you complete your studies.
Places and availability change annually so specific destinations can’t be guaranteed, but previously Biosciences students have completed their year abroad in Australia, Canada, Singapore, South Korea, Spain and the USA.
Not only do we match you with a partner university, and offer you support in all stages of the process, we also offer a range of dedicated bursaries and grants to help you fund your international experience.
Find out more at our Go Global pages .
Your year spent in industry will offer an enriching real world experience, locally or overseas, giving a competitive advantage when it comes to seeking employment.
As a Biosciences student you will already have a wide skill set which you will widen further during your placement year.
The Year in Industry attracts a course fee of 20% of a standard academic year.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/biomedical-engineering/beng-biomedical-engineering-foundation-year:
Biomedical Engineering applies engineering principles to the human body, in pursuit of an advanced and personalised style of future healthcare.
Combining engineering with the instrumentation used in modern medicine promises to generate important new technologies which touch and extend all our lifetimes.
You can be at the heart of it.
This degree prepares you for a rewarding career across a range of sectors.
You will gain core engineering skills while learning about anatomy, physiology and communication with clinicians.
As you progress, your developing analytical and problem-solving abilities will combine with hands-on experience of industrial medical devices and instruments, establishing skills that are vital to employment in the wider industry.
Engineering at Swansea University has a strong reputation and attracts students from across the world.
Biomedical Engineering graduates are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities.
Their research areas of expertise include Bioanalytics, Biomaterials and Biomechanics.
See all the Biomedical Engineering staff here .
The tuition fees for the Biomedical Engineering course do not cover costs incurred personally by the student such as the purchase of books or stationery, printing or photocopying costs.
My role at Oxford Instruments NanoScience is a Technical Sales Engineer and Manager for UK, Ireland, France and Scandinavia.
My role includes engineering consultation and design reviews, which include consulting on system concepts and requirements with academics on new and existing products.
The most advantageous thing I did at Swansea University is got involved with lots of different things!
Being a part of the rugby club exec, medical engineering society, representing my medical engineering cohort and subject ambassador for open days.
I strongly believe the skills you learn in this element of the degree is highly transferrable into a professional company.
Additionally I made nice connections with different post-graduates, professors and researchers associated with my project, which helped me to get where I am today.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/biomedical-engineering/beng-biomedical-engineering:
Our degrees prepares you for a rewarding career across a range of sectors.
You will develop your analytical and problem-solving abilities whilst gaining hands-on experience of industrial medical devices and instruments, establishing skills that are vital to employment in the wider industry.
This programme is a Bachelor of Engineering (BEng), which will provide you with training and skills in the design and innovation of tomorrow’s medical technologies based on engineering principles , and a route to becoming a Professional, Chartered Engineer.
If you are looking for a Bachelor of Science (BSc) programme, with a focus on clinical and practical aspects of medical engineering within the NHS, which provides a route to becoming a Healthcare Practitioner , please see our BSc Healthcare Sciences (Medical Engineering) .
* Based on the average positivity score across questions 19 to 21 in the NSS 2025 when ranked against universities featured in the Times Good University Guide.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS HB19) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS HB01) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving a valuable cultural and linguistic experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Our Biomedical Engineering degrees have three main themes:
Our state-of-the-art facilities include electrical engineering instruments to build and test medical devices and biomechanical modelling units to optimise implant technologies.
You will study in and around a thriving research community.
This includes the Biomedical Engineering Simulation & Testing (BEST) Lab which is a fantastic space for interdisciplinary researchers to grow ideas from concept through to manufacture, instrumentation, and testing.
Hear about Mthokozisi's experience studying Medical Engineering at Swansea .
Our graduates are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities including:
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, Renishaw, Calon Cardio-Technology Ltd, Olympus Surgical Technologies, NHS, GE Healthcare and Royal Navy.
You will complete a series of compulsory and optional 10-credit modules before undertaking a 30-credit research project and a 20-credit group design project in your final year.
The BEng Biomedical Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and The Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine (IPEM) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
An accredited degree will provide you with some or all of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills for eventual registration as an Incorporated (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng).
A programme of accredited Further Learning will be required to complete the educational base for CEng.
The tuition fees for the BEng Biomedical Engineering course do not cover costs incurred personally by the student such as the purchase of books or stationery, printing or photocopying costs.
We are very proud of the excellent career prospects of our Engineering graduates, here at Swansea University.
Providing the best student experience possible is of the utmost importance to us and we have well-established systems and support staff in place in order to facilitate this.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/biomedical-engineering/meng-biomedical-engineering:
Medical Engineering applies engineering principles to the human body, in pursuit of an advanced and personalised style of future healthcare.
Our degree prepares you for a rewarding career across a range of sectors.
This programme is a Master of Engineering (MEng), which will provide you with training and skills in the design and innovation of tomorrow’s medical technologies based on engineering principles , and a route to becoming a Professional, Chartered Engineer.
Engineering at Swansea University has an enviably powerful reputation and attracts students from across the world.
This degree provides a first step on the path to prestigious Chartered Engineer status.
The MEng Biomedical Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and The Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine (IPEM) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
An accredited degree will provide you with some or all of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-business-law-practice:
Take the first steps towards a range of exciting careers in business and commercial law with our specialised LLB Business Law in Practice.
This 4-year degree programme provides a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree, with your third year spent at a paid internship in a legal setting.
This will allow you to experience legal practice firsthand, and pick up key skills that will be infinitely useful in your future career.
Throughout your undergraduate law degree, you will develop excellent research and analytical skills and learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of subject areas with a business focus, including: trade law, media law, commercial sales, competition law, and employment law.
All of our undergraduate Law programmes contain the foundations of legal knowledge needed to enter the legal profession.
Our programmes provide a strong foundation for students who may wish to take the Solicitors Qualifying Examinations (SQE) in the future, and satisfy the academic stage of training required by the Bar Standards Board for those wishing to become barristers.
If you would like to complete a 3-year LLB without a year in practice, please visit our LLB Business Law course page.
While studying at Swansea University, you will benefit from being part of a lively research and teaching environment with students at its heart.
Swansea has an established and growing reputation for law teaching and research.
The School of Law is recognised as a source of expertise, and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields of practice.
The School is wholly committed to continuous improvement in teaching and learning, and to putting students at the centre of its activities.
You will be supported by our established Employability Team to help you secure a placement in a legal service environment for your third year, which will have tangible benefits for your future career path and employment.
Law at Swansea is ranked:
The LLB Business Law in Practice is focused on providing you with both the skills and knowledge that you will need for your career, whether that be in the business or legal worlds, or further afield.
We offer an inclusive, student-focussed learning environment and community.
Modules are delivered and assessed in a variety of different ways and you will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning, to work independently as well as with others, to act professionally, and to master new skills.
In addition to the practical experience of your internship, we offer a broad range of experiential learning opportunities for you to put theory into practice during your time spent studying.
From research-based placements, to working with clients, to developing advocacy and other skills.
Our thriving Law Clinic offers students the opportunity to get involved in giving advice to clients and we have programmes of extra-curricular mooting , negotiation and client interviewing.
Our undergraduate degree structure, with its range of final year optional modules, gives you plenty of scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions.
As well as the year-long internship as part of the degree structure, we also offer a range of shorter work placement opportunities in a wide range of settings.
Studying a law degree can lead to a range of careers.
We aim to equip you with multiple skills to enhance your prospects.
Our graduates go on to a wide variety of careers, which include being a:
Years 1 and 2 consist of the core areas of a law degree, with the option to select some of your own modules in both years.
Year 3 (Level S) will be spent at a paid internship in a legal setting.
You will take the internship module (LA-S000) and be assessed throughout the year and receive an overall module mark with feeback for each element.
If the mark attained for your placement year (Level S) is not to your advantage (i.e.
does not improve your overall weighted average) then it will not be counted towards your overall degree classification.
Year 4 consists largely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning.
NOTE : Choose Exactly 30 credits from the following modules.
Lectures will be delivered in English, seminars for the Welsh option will be conducted in Welsh.
NOTE : Choose Exactly 10 credits from the following modules.
NOTE : Select 1 module (15 credits) from the list below:
NOTE : It is not a requirement for you to complete LAA339 Dissertation.
If you would like to select Dissertation module, please ask application form from solstudy@swansea.ac.uk.
Please ensure that credits are balanced across both semesters.
If you study at least 40 credits in Welsh and it is listed as an eligible course on the webpage, you can apply for the Academi Hywel Teifi Scholarship (£300 for 1 year), or the Coleg Cymraeg Incentive Scholarship (£500 per year for 3 years).
Our law degrees are taught by experts, some of whom are experienced legal practitioners and all of whom have a wealth of legal knowledge to pass on to our students.
Academic Support at the School of Law
There are student representatives in each year of our law programme as well as a School representative for undergraduate students.
The school also has a dedicated Student Information Office who will be able to offer academic assistance throughout your studies.
At Swansea, we have a range of law-focused societies, which offer opportunities for you to meet fellow students and take part in a variety of activities.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llbbusinesslaw:
Take the first step towards a range of exciting careers in business and commercial law with our specialised LLB degree programme.
You will gain a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of subject areas with a business focus, including: trade law, media law, commercial sales, and employment law.
Throughout your business law degree, you will develop excellent research and analytical skills and learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
If you would like to complete a 4-year LLB with a year in practice, please visit our LLB Business Law in Practice course page.
Based at the Hillary Rodham Clinton School of Law, you will benefit from being part of a lively and diverse research and teaching environment with students at its heart.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for law teaching and research.
The School of Law is recognised as a source of expertise and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields of practice.
As well as teaching and learning activities we offer a broad range of opportunities for you to get involved: from research-based placements, to working with clients, to developing advocacy and other skills.
Our thriving Law Clinic offers students the opportunity to get involved in giving advice to clients and we have programmes of extra-curricular mooting , negotiation and interviewing.
This programme presents you with the chance to study abroad for a year at one of our partner institutions.
Broadening your horizons and picking up new life experiences and skills can help to give you a competitive advantage when entering the world of work.
In addition to this, we also offer a range of work placement opportunities in a wide range of settings.
We aim to equip students with multiple skills to enhance their graduate prospects.
LLB Business Law structure.
Years 1 and 2 consist of the core areas of a law degree, with the option to select some of your own modules in year 2.
Year 3 consists largely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning.
NOTE : Please choose one module from the list below.
NOTE : Please select one module from the list below.
Undergraduate Law Reading List

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-business-analytics-foundation-year:
Do you see yourself playing a key role in the success of a big brand?
Do you want to learn how to analyse a business in its entirety to uncover commercial opportunities?
The BSc Business Management (Business Analytics) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Business Analytics) course, the BSc Business Management (Business Analytics) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business management and analytics, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Business Analytics) degree within the School of Management.
During your degree, you will develop the skills required to excel in the era of ‘big data’ and business analysis.
You will also study core business modules including: marketing, accounting, finance, strategy and human resource management.
The course modules are designed to ensure you have a well-rounded understanding of how a business functions ahead of joining the world of work.
The BSc Business Management (Business Analytics) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Teaching at Swansea is partly informed by research, and our staff have hands-on experience of both theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
As well as setting you up for a career as a business analyst within a business, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
This service offers a mentoring route, using a wealth of industry experience
Whether your target is to work for the world’s best brands or become an independent business analyst, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
Early studies give you a solid foundation in accounting, finance, marketing, personal skills development and operations management.
NOTE : Students have the option of studying 'Marketing' through the medium of Welsh or English.
'MN-1025 Marchnata' is taught concurrently with 'MN-1016 Marketing', and allows students to attend seminars through the medium of Welsh.
Lectures will be in English.
Choose 15 credits from the following:
NOTE : Students have the option of studying compulsory module 'Strategic Analysis' through the medium of Welsh or English.
'MN-2075 Dadansoddi Strategol' is taught concurrently with 'MN-2040 Strategic Analysis', and allows students to attend seminars through the medium of Welsh.
NOTE: Pre-reqs need to have been taken and their credit attained in a previous year and co-reqs have to be selected in the current year.
NOTE : NOTE : Students should select 15 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
NOTE: Pre-reqs need to have been taken and passed in a previous year and co-reqs have to be selected in the current year.
NOTE: Pre-reqs need to have been taken and passed in a previous year and co-reqs have to be selected in the current year
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management or business analytics.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-business-analytics:
Are you looking for an analytics business degree to make you stand out from the crowd, with the advanced technical skills needed to manage business at a global, national or local level?
Studying business analytics will help to give you skills needed to excel in the era of ‘big data’.
If you are committed to a close understanding of the data-driven business world, from web analytics to global logistics management, this degree is for you.
The BSc Business Management degree at Swansea University is the most established programme within the School of Management, known for producing highly skilled and commercial thinking business managers.
Graduates have gone on to work for the world’s biggest brands including Shell UK , Marks & Spencer , Bloomberg and Tata .
As well as specialising in business analytics, this Business Management course is designed to equip you with essential modern expertise in marketing, operations management, finance, accountancy, strategy and human resources.
Business Management (Business Analytics) at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year or work in industry for a year.
This can give you a real competitive advantage and broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
Our broad selection of optional modules from the second and third years allows you to shape the degree towards specific fields such as business analytics.
Teaching at Swansea is partly informed by research and our staff have hands-on experience of theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
As well as setting you up for a career as a business analyst within a business, we also have support services available to help you start your own business thanks to our range of support services including business mentoring alongside corporate partners with a wealth of industry experience.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in business analytics, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Whether your target is Shell UK, Marks & Spencer, Bloomberg or Tata, this degree makes you a strong candidate for any potential employer.
Early studies give you a solid foundation in accounting, finance, marketing and operations management.
Our BSc Business Management (Business Analytics) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-enterprise-innovation-foundation-year:
Do you see yourself running your own business?
Are you looking for a degree to help you turn an exciting idea into a profitable, successful business?
The BSc Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) course, the BSc Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business management and entrepreneurship, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) degree within the School of Management.
During your degree, as well as covering the core areas of business and management, you will develop the practical skills and mind-set required of an entrepreneur.
You will study a range of key business topics that include: marketing, operations management, accounting, finance, strategy and human resource management alongside modules which are dedicated to entrepreneurship.
The BSc Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
The course itself will provide you with a theoretical understanding of the nature of entrepreneurship, the role of entrepreneurs in the economy and the operating models of entrepreneurial businesses.
Our wide selection of optional modules which you can choose in your final two years of study, will allow you to shape the degree towards your career goals.
We can help you start your own business, thanks to our range of support services including business mentoring alongside corporate partners with a wealth of industry experience, and we are one of the few UK business schools with an independent team of career advisors.
Whether your target is to work for the world’s best brands or to set up your own successful business, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management or as an entrepreneur.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-enterprise-innovation:
Are you looking for an entrepreneurial degree to help you stand out from the crowd through the innovative skills needed to build or manage a dynamic, fast growth business?
Studying entrepreneurship gives you a theoretical understanding of entrepreneurship, the role of entrepreneurs in the economy, and how entrepreneurial business models succeed or fail in practice.
You will develop both the practical skills and mind-set required of an entrepreneur.
As well as specialising in entrepreneurship, this Business Management course will equip you with essential modern expertise in marketing, operations management, finance, accountancy, strategy and human resources.
Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
This can broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment or starting your own business venture.
The course is perfect for students interested in starting their own business as well as those who wish to work in large organisations, but are interested in effecting entrepreneurial change.
Our wide selection of optional modules from the second and third years allows you to shape the degree towards specific career goals such as entrepreneurship.
We can help you start your own business thanks to our range of support services, including business mentoring alongside corporate partners with a wealth of industry experience.
We are also one of the few UK business schools with an independent team of career advisors.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in Enterprise and Innovation, you will find yourself in a great position for a successful career.
It also makes you a prime contender to start your own business.
Our BSc Business Management (Enterprise and Innovation) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-finance-foundation-year:
Are you seeking a business finance degree to make you stand out from the crowd with the specialist skills needed to manage money at a global, national or local business?
The BSc Business Management (Finance) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Finance) course, the BSc Business Management (Finance) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business finance, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Finance) degree within the School of Management.
During your degree, you will study core business modules including: marketing, accounting, finance, strategy and human resource management.
You will also have the opportunity to pursue advanced finance topics such as corporate finance, financial innovation and risk management, financial services and international financial management.
The BSc Business Management (Finance) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
The course itself will offer a range of modules that cover the basics for all areas of business including quantitative methods and statistics as well as academic and professional skills.
As well as setting you up for a career as a financial expert within a business, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
Whether your target is to work for the world’s best brands or become a financial consultant, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
NOTE : NOTE : Students should select one of the following compulsory modules that they will pursue in Semester 1.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management or finance related areas.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-finance:
Suitable if you are interested in financial elements of business management, this degree covers core areas of business and management, as well as advanced finance topics including corporate finance, international financial management and financial innovation.
As well as specialising in finance, this Business Management course will equip you with broad modern expertise in marketing, operations management, accountancy, strategy and human resources.
Business Management (Finance) at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
This can help to broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
Our wide selection of optional modules from the second and third years allows you to shape the degree towards specific career goals such as finance.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in finance, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Our BSc Business Management (Finance) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-human-resource-management-foundation-year:
Are you a people person wanting to make a real difference to the success of an organisation?
Would you like to play a key role in developing a workforce and ensuring the right people are doing the right job within the right working conditions?
The BSc Business Management (Human Resource Management) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Human Resource Management) course, the BSc Business Management (Human Resource Management) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business management and HR, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Human Resource Management) degree within the School of Management.
During your course, classical human resource management is studied, in addition to wider business topics, including: marketing, accounting, finance and strategy.
The pathway also gives an overview of the legal and ethical challenges faced by Human Resource professionals, and the techniques used to match skills and abilities to business needs.
The BSc Business Management (Human Resource Management) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
If you are interested in the human side of business management, this course is ideal.
It will equip you with the skills and knowledge to work across a range of sectors from public and private to third party / voluntary sectors.
As well as setting you up for a career as a HR manager within a business, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
This service offers a mentoring route, using a wealth of industry experience.
Whether your target is to work for the world’s best brands or become a HR advisor, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
NOTE : Students should select 15 credits from the following list for Semester 2
NOTE : NOTE : Students should select 30 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management or human resource management.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-human-resource-management:
Are you seeking a degree to develop your interpersonal skills towards managing people at a global, national or local business?
We cover areas from classical human resource management to areas of leadership and high-performance organisation.
As well as specialising in human resource management, this Business Management course will equip you with essential modern expertise in marketing, operations management, finance, accountancy and strategy.
Business Management (Human Resource Management) at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
This can give you a real competitive advantage and broaden your horizons when it comes to seeking employment.
You will study human resource management alongside business management; giving you a well-rounded knowledge-base before joining the world of work.
Our broad selection of optional modules from the second and third years allows you to shape the degree towards your specific career goals.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in Human Resource Management, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Our BSc Business Management (Human Resource Management) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-marketing-foundation-year:
Do you have an interest in digital marketing, advertising and consumer behaviour?
Would you like to be part of a marketing team for a top brand?
The BSc Business Management (Marketing) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Marketing) course, the BSc Business Management (Marketing) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business management and marketing, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Marketing) degree within the School of Management.
Across the four year course, you will study a mixture of business and marketing modules from business planning, management consulting and finance to international marketing, market research and strategic marketing planning.
The combination of business and marketing will help you become a commercially driven marketer, valued skills by future employers.
The BSc Business Management (Marketing) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Covering the foundation of business and management, this course also focuses on how customers and businesses interact in a global marketplace, allowing you to pursue specialist topics such as consumer behaviour, marketing communications, marketing research, marketing metrics and global marketing.
As well as setting you up for a career in marketing within an organisation, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).* *subject to module selections
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management or marketing.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-marketing:
Do you see yourself playing a key role within a successful brand?
Are you seeking a degree to distinguish yourself from the pack through the creative skills required to assertively manage business at a global, national or local level?
Ideal if you have a dedicated interest in marketing, sales and consumer behaviour, this pathway concentrates on the interaction between customers and businesses in the global marketplace.
You can study specialist marketing topics such as consumer behaviour, marketing communications, marketing research, marketing metrics and global marketing.
As well as specialising in marketing, this Business Management course will equip you with essential modern expertise in entrepreneurship, management consulting, operations management, finance, accountancy, strategy and human resources.
Business Management (Marketing) at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in marketing, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Our BSc Business Management (Marketing) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)*.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) Accredited Degree programme and provides students with two exemptions from a core module towards the CIM Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing or one exemption from a core module towards the CIM Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing*.
*depending on module selection
To claim the exemptions students will need to register as a CIM member within 3 years of graduating and then have up to 5 years from graduating to complete the additional module(s) to gain the full qualification.
A list of exempt modules and further information can be found on the CIM Accredited Degree website.
Students must be members of the CIM to study additional modules (and access support material).
Visit CIM’s membership pages for up to date membership costs.
Depending on module selection and completion, students may graduate with two exemptions from a core module towards the CIM Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing or one exemption from a core module towards the CIM Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing.
To claim module exemptions towards students will need to register as a CIM member within 3 years of graduating and then have up to 5 years from graduating to complete the additional module(s) to gain the full qualification.
Visit CIM’s membership pages for up to date membership costs.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-modern-language-foundation-year:
Can you envision yourself as a pivotal player in a major brand's success?
Are you eager to explore the fusion of modern languages with the realm of business?
The BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) course, the BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business management, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) degree.
During your degree, you will explore concepts within modern languages including taster sessions in Year 1 in Mandarin, French, Italian, German, and Spanish before selecting one language as your focus in your second and third years of studies.
You will also study core business modules including marketing, accounting, finance, strategy, and human resource management.
The course modules are designed to ensure you have a well-rounded understanding of how a business and modern language functions ahead of joining the world of work.
Once you complete this year, year one of studies will be taught at the School of Management with your second and third years taught across Singleton and Bay Campus.
Modern Languages at Swansea is ranked:
*Based on the average positivity score across questions 5 to 9 in the NSS 2024 when ranked against universities featured in the Times Good University Guide.
**Based on the average positivity score across questions 1 to 4 in the NSS 2024 when ranked against universities featured in the Times Good University Guide.
***Based on the average positivity score across questions 22 to 25 in the NSS 2024 when ranked against universities featured in the Times Good University Guide.
The BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Your first year (the Foundation Year) is taught at The College, located next to the School of Management.
Teaching at Swansea is research led, and our staff have hands-on experience of both theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
As well as setting you up for a career within business and modern languages, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
During your time with us, you will also have full access to our cutting-edge video and digital content creation suite and state-of-the-art facilities at the School of Management.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in Modern Languages, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Language taster sessions are also offered in year one to allow you to try out a range of languages before committing to one language from a choice of Mandarin, French, Italian, German, and Spanish in years two and three.
Additionally in your later years of studies, you can tailor your studies by selecting from different specialist module choices according to your chosen career, as detailed below.
NOTE : Select one 15-credit module (Language) from the list below:
NOTE : Select one 15 credit module (Language) from the list below , noting that you must continue with the same language as that selected in semester 1.
Students should note before selecting whether modules have any special requirements, such as pre-requisites, co-requisities or incompatibles.
Note: Pre-requisites have to be taken and passed in a previous year and co-requisites have to be selected in the current year.
NOTE : Select one module (Language) from the list below.
Note that students must continue with the same language as that undertaken in the second year of the programme (Level 5):
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-modern-languages:
Are you looking for a distinctive business degree that incorporates modern languages, empowering you with the specialised skills required to excel in global, national, or local business management?
This degree is ideal for those who have an interest in both business management and modern languages.
It encompasses essential aspects of business and management, while also giving you the opportunity to acquire competence in a modern language.
In the first year, you will explore various languages through taster sessions, allowing you to experience Mandarin, French, Italian, German, and Spanish before selecting one language as your focus.
During the second and third years of your study, you will focus on one selected language.
In the second year, you will follow Beginners’ language modules, while in the third year, you'll advance to the intermediate level.
As your studies progress you will also learn how to use your foreign language in a professional environment.
Upon completing this degree programme, you will be fully prepared to commence your journey as a global citizen, equipped with the potential to pursue numerous diverse roles spanning a wide range of industries and public services.
Please note: Year one of studies will be taught at the School of Management on Bay Campus, with your second and third years taught across Singleton and Bay Campus.
Business Management (Modern Languages) at Swansea is a flexible degree providing you with the option to study abroad for a year or work in industry between your second and final year of studies.
Our broad selection of optional modules from the second and third years allows you to shape the degree towards specific fields of interest.
Teaching at Swansea is research led and our staff have hands-on experience of theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
In addition to preparing you for a prosperous career, we provide comprehensive support services to assist you in launching your own business.
Our array of support services includes business mentoring, as well as collaborations with corporate partners possessing extensive industry expertise.
Language taster sessions are also offered in year one to allow you to try out a range of languages before committing to one language from a choice of Mandarin, French, Italian, German, and Spanish in years two and three.
Our BSc Business Management (Modern Languages) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-operations-foundation-year:
Do you see yourself playing a key role in the running of a business?
Are you hoping to become a project manager or operations manager for a successful organisation one day?
The BSc Business Management (Operations) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management (Operations) course, the BSc Business Management (Operations) with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business, operations, and management consulting, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management (Operations) degree within the School of Management.
During your degree, as well as covering the core areas of business and management, you will develop the practical skills and mind-set required for a role in operations management.
The course is perfect for students who have a clear interest in understanding and approving how things are made, be it products or services.
You will study a range of key business topics that include marketing, accounting, finance, strategy, and human resource management alongside modules which are dedicated to operations, management consulting and e-business.
The BSc Business Management (Operations) with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
As well as setting you up for a career as an operations manager within a business, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
Whether your target is to work for the world’s best brands or become a consultant, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
Early studies give you a solid foundation in accounting, finance, marketing, personal skills development, and operations management.
NOTE : Students need to select exactly 15 credits from the following list for Semester 1.
NOTE : Students have to select exactly 15 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).* *subject to module selections.
What are the benefits of Professional Accreditations ?
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business management or operations management.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-operations:
Are you seeking a degree to give you distinctive credibility for assertively managing the operations of business on a global, national or local level?
If you are driven to understand and improve how products and services are designed and delivered, specialising in operations, e-business and management consulting, then this pathway is for you.
As well as specialising in operations, this Business Management course will equip you with essential modern expertise in marketing, entrepreneurship, management consulting, finance, e-business, strategy and human resource management.
Business Management (Operations) at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
The mixture of core business modules and specific operations, e-business and management consulting modules will become invaluable when seeking employment after graduating.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea specialised in operations, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Whether your target is Shell UK, Marks & Spencer or Tata, this degree makes you a strong candidate for any potential employer.
Our BSc Business Management (Operations) degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) *subject to module selections.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in business or operations management.
The School of Management also offers a Developing Futures Scholarship for international undergraduate students who have an offer to study at the School of Management*.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management-foundation-year:
Are you looking for a degree to make you stand out from the crowd and to give you the innovative skills to manage a business locally or globally?
The BSc Business Management with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Business Management course, the BSc Business Management with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in business management before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Business Management degree within the School of Management.
Across the four years, you will study a range of business topics that include: marketing, operations management, accounting, finance, strategy and human resource management.
In addition, you can study a range of modules that cover the basics for all areas of business, including quantitative methods and statistics as well as academic and professional skills.
The BSc Business Management with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
The course itself blends theory with practical application.
Across the four year period, you will develop strong business acumen and through the study of key business modules combined with cutting edge, specialist modules, you will gain the essential skills needed for real-world business management.
Whether your target is to work for the world’s best brands or setting up your own business consulting firm, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
Choose Exactly 45 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students should select 45 credits from the following list for Semester 1.
NOTE : NOTE : Students should select 45 credits from the following list for Semester 2.
NOTE : Students need to select exactly 45 credits from the following list for Semester 1.
NOTE : Students have to select exactly 45 credits from the following list for Semester 2.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-business-management:
Are you looking for a degree to make you stand out from the crowd with the innovative skills to manage a global, national or local business?
It delivers a range of expert teaching across marketing, operations management, finance, accounting, strategy and human resource management, as well as specialist optional modules.
If you aim to excel at the highest level global business management practice, this course is for you.
Business Management at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
This can broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
A wide selection of optional modules from the second and third years allows you to shape the degree towards your specific career goals.
Specialised degree pathways include Business Analytics, Enterprise and Innovation, Human Resource Management, Marketing and Finance.
As a Business Management graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any business.
Whether you target Shell UK, Marks & Spencer, Bloomberg or Tata, this degree makes you a strong candidate for any potential employer.
NOTE : NOTE : Students should select 15 credits from the following list for Semester 2
Our BSc Business Management degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).*

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/chemical-engineering/beng-chemical-engineering-foundation-year:
Studying a Chemical Engineering degree provides expert training in modern process engineering, developing analytical and problem-solving skills critical to the application of engineering to industry.
Chemical engineers work closely with processes that turn raw materials into valuable products for human use.
Their skills ensure that natural resources are used sustainably, and the disposal of by-products is conducted in a safe and environmentally-friendly manner.
This professionally accredited degree course provides knowledge and skills across the full spectrum of chemical engineering topics, allowing you to keep your career options open.
As you progress, your growing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider chemical engineering industry.
*Based on the overall positivity score for question 1 -26  in the NSS 2025.
Graduates of Chemical Engineering at Swansea are set on course for a range of employment opportunities.
The BEng Chemical Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the educational requirement for Further Learning for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Study on an accredited degree will provide you with some of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills needed as a Chartered Engineer.
IChemE accreditation:
Their research areas of expertise include Advanced Processes, Complex Fluids, Sustainable Resources, Materials and Manufacturing Technologies and much more.
See all the Chemical Engineering staff here .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/chemical-engineering/beng-chemical-engineering:
*Based on the overall positivity score for question 1-26 in the NSS 2025
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H832) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H800) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
We have a number of advanced chemical engineering facilities to enhance your studies.
Our modern Pilot Chemical Laboratory contains 15 pilot-scale rigs which cover a wide range of unit operations.
Other state-of-the-art facilities you may work with include atomic force microscopy, fermentation rigs, surface plasmon resonance and hydrodynamic shear adhesion assays.
You will also benefit from a dynamic research environment where pioneering Swansea academics are leading the way in areas such as advanced water treatment technologies.
Hear Effrosyni's experience of studying Chemical Engineering at Swansea University .
Our Chemical Engineering graduates are set on course for a range of exciting employment opportunities including:
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, The Dow Chemical Company, GSK, Tata Steel, 3M, BP, Worley Parsons, BASF, AkzoNobel.
Our modules are built on established chemical engineering fields with applications to energy, health, food, water and the environment.
Students on this course will need to meet the costs of the item below:
I am currently working as a Process Engineer in a company called Climax Molybdenum which is a Freeport-McMoran company.
The site that I work for is a smeltering plant which produces a chemical called Ferro-Molybdenum, which goes into steel to give is particular properties.
I am currently looking into process safety and process optimisation.
The degree has not only helped with my education but also helped with my social and personal skills.
I have learnt how to handle my daily issues logically.
I have had a brilliant time studying in Swansea University, I still do miss it.
I have made great friends and still carry a strong relationship with most of my lecturers.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/chemical-engineering/meng-chemical-engineering:
As you progress, your growing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the chemical engineering industry.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H890) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H802) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
At Swansea we have a number of advanced chemical engineering facilities to enhance your studies.
NOTE : Choose exactly 20 credits from the following modules:
The MEng Chemical Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the educational requirement for Further Learning for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/chemistry/bsc-chemistry-with-foundation-year:
Our four-year BSc Chemistry with integrated foundation degree will develop your practical skills as well as your theoretical comprehension and you will have plenty of time in the lab carrying out experiments.
You will  gain a broad knowledge of organic, inorganic, physical, analytical, theoretical chemistry and biochemistry and project-based practical work in all your core modules.
Chemistry at Swansea University attracts students from across the world.
Facilities include sector-leading teaching laboratories and analytical facilities built in partnership with industry.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including, recipient of eight awards for instructional teaching at the University of Houston.
We are accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry and our student society is the only one in the UK that is affiliated with the American Chemical Society.
*Based on the overall positivity score for question 1-26 in the NSS 2025.
Your chemistry degree has been developed in collaboration with industrial partners.
There are many sectors that you can go into after you graduate.
A popular choice is medicine.
Chemistry graduates research, develop and test new drugs and treatments.
Swansea University helps you to prepare for your future career by helping you to find work placements and relevant part-time jobs, offering year in industry options, as well as introducing you to employers such as Tata Steel, Fujitsu, Perkin Elmer and National Nuclear Laboratories.
5 reasons to study Chemistry at Swansea
Our students talk about the friendly teaching community, their favourite modules and much more
The second through to the fourth years of the programme are identical to the 3 year B.Sc.
course.
The first year (Foundation Year) will consist of 6 compulsory modules.
In the first semester, students will take modules in Maths, Chemistry 1 and Chemistry Lab 1.
In the second semester, they will take modules in Physics, Chemistry 2 and Chemistry Lab 2.
The Maths and Physics modules will be such that the topics are taught with Chemistry context.
The separation of topics within the Chemistry 1 and 2 modules roughly mirror the Structure and Bonding and Chemical Reactions module sequence of the first year of the main chemistry courses so that students will be familiar with this non-traditional categorisation of concepts when they progress to the second year.
The experiments in the Lab modules will illustrate the concepts in the parallel Chemistry 1 and 2 modules.
The Chemistry content over all four modules will not simply match that of A-level but will begin to develop students' past the A- level conceptualisation and cognition levels.
The ideal is that students will leave the Foundation year as prepared as possible for the mainstream chemistry modules without these latter being repetition.
In your final year you will take a 40-credit project module specialising in Chemistry, Materials Chemistry or Medicinal Chemistry.
This course is in the process of gaining accreditation from the Royal Society of Chemistry .
You will be taught by lecturers who are all leaders in their field; in development of educational methods in chemistry and in their research, covering areas such as affordable, clean energy and improving health by developing innovative ways to deliver insulin to diabetes patients help to change the world for the better.
See all of the Chemistry staff
The tuition fees do not cover the costs of purchasing books or stationery, printing, project binding or photocopying costs.
Our chemistry graduates are set on course for a range of stimulating opportunities.
You might find your career lies in any of the following fields.
New Medicine Discovery
89% of Graduates are in employment and/or other study 15 months after leaving Swansea University.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/chemistry/bsc-chemistry:
Our BSc Chemistry degree will develop your practical skills as well as your theoretical comprehension and you will have plenty of time in the lab carrying out experiments.
In your first year you will undertake a ‘Chemical Thinking’ module to prepare you for university study.
You will then gain a broad knowledge of organic, inorganic, physical, analytical, theoretical chemistry and biochemistry and project-based practical work in all your core modules.
Our facilities include sector-leading teaching laboratories and analytical facilities built in partnership with industry
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Professor Simon Bott , recipient of eight awards for instructional teaching at the University of Houston.
We are accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry and our student society is the only one in the UK that is affiliated with the American Chemical Society.
This course has been accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry .
You will be taught by lecturers who are all leaders in their field; in development of educational methods in chemistry and in their research, covering areas such as affordable, clean energy and improving health by developing innovative ways to deliver insulin to diabetes patients help to change the world for the better.
Places and availability change annually so specific destinations can’t be guaranteed, but previously College of Science students have completed their year abroad in Australia, Canada, Singapore, South Korea, Spain and the USA.
Find out more at our Go Global pages.
Our Chemistry courses aim to give you all the skills that employers need.
Incorporating dynamic learning in top class facilities, you will transfer all you have learnt in the labs and lecture classes into the workplace on our 4-year programme.
At Swansea Chemistry, we have superb links with both local and international businesses such as TATA Steel, SPTS Technologies, Parkin Elmer and IQE.
Our Year in Industry programme is tailor made to those who want to gain hands on experience and pursue a successful chemistry career.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/chemistry/mchem-chemistry:
Our four-year MChem degree builds on the three-year BSc Chemistry, offering greater depth in the major topic areas.
The distinctive feature of the MChem is a substantial research project embedded in a research group which interacts with the wider research environment and has the potential to result in publishable work.
Facilities include sector-leading teaching laboratories and analytical facilities built in partnership with industry
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Professor Simon Bott , recipient of eight awards for instructional teaching at the University of Houston]
You will study the following set compulsory modules and select from a choice of optional modules throughout your degree.
In year three you will take a 40-credit project module specialising in Chemistry, Materials Chemistry or Medicinal Chemistry.
This choice is repeated with a 60-credit module in your final year of the MChem.
Their research activities in areas such as affordable, clean energy and improving health by developing innovative ways to deliver insulin to diabetes patients, help to change the world for the better.
All students on our undergraduate courses are assigned a Personal Tutor, who will offer you not only Academic Guidance, but advice on finding and accessing help with personal issues.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/civil-engineering/beng-civil-engineering-foundation-year:
Civil engineers are vital to the design of our built environment.
From bridges, tunnels and transport systems, to buildings, flood defences and water management, their performance is fundamental to modern society.
This degree gives you a strong grounding in the design and analysis of civil engineering structures.
You will develop complex problem-solving skills, gain the ability to sketch and model engineering solutions and become fully comfortable preparing technical reports.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of state-of-the-art equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider civil engineering industry.
Graduates of Civil Engineering degrees at Swansea are set on course for a range of employment opportunities.
Their research areas of expertise include Energy and Environment, Computational Engineering, Solids, Structures and Coupled Systems, Materials and Sustainable Practice and Transportation Engineering.
See all the Civil Engineering staff here .
Find out more about our Careers & Employability .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/civil-engineering/beng-civil-engineering:
This degree gives you a strong grounding in the design and analysis of Civil Engineering structures.
You will develop complex problem-solving skills, gain the ability to sketch and model engineering solutions and become comfortable preparing technical reports.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of state-of-the-art equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the civil engineering industry.
Top 201-275 in the World for Engineering – Civil & Structural (QS World University Rankings 2025)
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H202) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H206) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Our BEng programme allows applicants to build their skills and bridge towards our MEng programme.
Studying a modern degree with close connections to the rapidly evolving industry, you will learn about current design practices and the latest engineering standards.
We will nurture your computer modelling skills by encouraging you to develop your own software to analyse real world civil engineering problems.
You will benefit from working with advanced facilities including high grade laboratories for structures teaching and materials testing.
Our fluids laboratory has a five metre experimental flume and a geomechanics laboratory.
You can also use our sophisticated high speed cameras for strain analysis and 3D imaging.
Watch to find out what one of our Civil Engineering field trips is like!
Hannah Keating graduated from Swansea in Civil Engineering and joined Laing O’Rourke as a Site Engineer as part of their Graduate Programme.
"...I didn’t get to where I am today without the support of my family, friends, lecturers and teachers.
Going into a male dominated field has never really bothered me and this is mostly due to the encouragement from those close to me.
I would like to take this opportunity to reciprocate this and help inspire young engineers by sharing my story ."
Civil Engineering graduates are set on course for a range of exciting employment opportunities including:
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, Atkins, Arup, Mott MacDonald, AECOM, Jacobs and Rolls-Royce.
You will study the following blocks of modules over the full period of your study, culminating in a 30 credit research project in your final year.
The course is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (Institution of Structural Engineers, Institution of Civil Engineers, Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation, Institute of Highway Engineers, and the Permanent Way Institution) as fully satisfying the requirements for Incorporated Engineer and partially satisfying the requirements for Chartered Engineer (CEng).
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for CEng.
I am currently an Assistant Engineer at Atkins.
I work with multidisciplinary teams across the UK and India to help deliver a variety of new build and highway improvement schemes.
The industry related modules taught as part of the course were great at preparing me for the way real world projects work.
The group project during my MEng year in particular was really good experience, and the opportunity to work with industry professionals was brilliant practice for the graduate world.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/civil-engineering/meng-civil-engineering:
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H204) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H207) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Hannah Keating graduated from Swansea with a MEng in Civil Engineering and joined Laing O’Rourke as a Site Engineer as part of their Graduate Programme.
Graduates of the MEng Civil Engineering degree at Swansea are set on course for a range of stimulating future opportunities.
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as fully satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
See www.jbm.co.uk for further information.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-classical-studies-foundation-year:
Classical Studies with a foundation year focuses on the literature of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds, along with the cultures that created it.
Studying this three-year BA degree will allow you to read all kinds of texts in translation from around the ancient Mediterranean and develop an understanding of Greek and Roman culture from the archaic period to the fall of the Roman Empire and beyond.
You will explore the stories and mythology of Greece and Rome and learn how to perform close analysis with an eye for detail.
You may investigate familiar texts, such as epics and tragedies, as well as often overlooked genres from the ancient world, including novels and satire.
While the ancient materials you will study might appear distant from the present day, they have influenced and interacted with western and global cultures right up to now.
You will be able to access cultural artefacts which illuminate Greek and Roman history and society, architecture and archaeology, warfare and empire, gender and religion, philosophy, politics and economics–or learn about ancient Egypt (as ancient to the Greeks as those peoples are to us).
You can also learn how to develop new, cutting-edge research on marvellous old things.
As part of single honours Classical Studies, you could also opt to pursue one of six more specific dedicated pathways: Greek, Latin, Classics (which is both Greek and Latin), Egyptology, English Literature, and Philosophy.
Based at our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula,
Classics at Swansea is ranked:
*Based on the average positivity score for question 1-26 in the NSS 2025.
During your first year, you will be introduced to the ways in which Greeks and Romans came up with their myths, by investigating approaches to storytelling, including the study of Greek tragedy and Ovid’s brilliant and compendious poem, the Metamorphoses .
You may also study some Greek and Roman history, or ancient philosophy and rhetoric, to give you a grounding in the worlds which shaped the texts you read.
And you could start learning some Latin or ancient Greek as a way to get a greater appreciation for the original authors’ use of language.
In your second year, you will do a module on how to perform what we call ‘close reading’ or ‘practical criticism’, and we have a range of text-based modules, arranged according to genre, which mirror the texts which the academic staff research and work on—these include tragedy, the various ancient novels, Latin elegy, Roman verse satire, and Plato.
We teach several of these classes to second-and third-year students together, with different assessments for each year group, to enable student progression over the course of the degree.
Swansea is an established centre for the study of narrative, especially the ancient novel, under the auspices of our research group KYKNOS.
Another research group in the department, OLCAP (Object and Landscape-Centred Approaches to the Past), focuses on material culture in research and teaching.
Both research groups welcome undergraduate input.
We also have an active guest speaker programme and international links of various kinds.
Through the course of your Classical Studies degree, in our close-knit community, you will each have a personal tutor from among the teaching staff to lend academic support.
The Society for Ancient Studies and our Egyptology Society organise social and cultural events, including museum trips.
Students of Classical Studies receive a comprehensive grounding in how to research, develop, and present complex ideas in a clear and systematic fashion.
You will gain a useful attention to detail along with ways and means to approach the unfamiliar with confidence.
Our Classical Studies graduates enter careers in a wide variety of sectors including:
You’ll then progress to your degree.
NOTE : Choose AT LEAST 2 AND UP TO 4 modules.
To pursue a pathway in Latin or Greek, select 2 Latin/Greek modules at the appropriate level.
If you have studied Latin and/or Greek before and intend to pursue a pathway in Classics, select 2 Latin and 2 Greek modules.
Staff can advise on the appropriate level of Latin/Greek modules on request.
Do not select more than one language at beginners’ level.
NOTE : Choose 0 or 1 or 2 of the following modules.
If you wish to study Classical Studies with a
pathway in Egyptology (CLE) or English Literature (AM or EN) or Philosophy (HUP), choose two of the relevant modules respectively.
Note, if you intend to pursue a pathway in Philosophy, you should take two HUP modules, and should also choose CLC103 (see above).
If in any doubt, please contact academic-cultureandcom@swansea.ac.uk.
NOTE : Select at least one and up to three modules.
In total students must pursue a 120cr, split across the semesters, three modules in each semester.
NOTE : You may select up to four of the following modules.
To continue with a pathway in Latin or Greek, select two Latin/Greek modules at the appropriate level.
To continue with a pathway in Classics, select two Latin and two Greek modules.
Do not select more than one language at beginner’s level.
NOTE : To continue with a pathway in Egyptology (CLE) or English Literature (EN) or Philosophy (HUP) select two of the relevant modules.
Otherwise, students may enquire about taking one module as an elective via the Programme Director.
NOTE : Select at least two and up to four modules.
To enrol on a TB2 Ancient Language, students should normally enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
To pursue a Latin or Greek pathway select two Latin or two Greek modules.
To pursue a pathway in Classics select two Latin and two Greek modules.
Overall, students must select two modules per semester alongside the dissertation.
Otherwise students may enquire about selecting one of the modules as an elective via the programme director/module convenor.
Overall, students must select two modules in each semester alongside the dissertation.
We have a personal tutoring system where you will be allocated a personal tutor.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-classical-studies:
Classical Studies focuses on the literature of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds, along with the cultures that created it.
This three-year BA honours degree aims to equip you with skills that enhance your future employability in a broad range of careers, by developing your interest and passion for antiquity in all its aspects, especially the texts that have managed to survive for so long.
The feel for the creativity of ancient authors and flair for in-depth analysis which we hope to inspire in you will set you apart in the eyes of employers.
If you so desire, you will have the option to study a semester abroad in a location such as the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong, or Singapore, during your second year, or to spend a full year abroad after your second year.
We have a study trip module which affords you the opportunity to bolster your in-depth study of classical lands overseas by seeing one in real life.
In your second year, you can do a module on how to perform what we call ‘close reading’ or ‘practical criticism’, and we have a range of text-based modules, arranged according to genre, which mirror the texts which the academic staff research and work on—these include tragedy, the various ancient novels, Latin elegy, Roman verse satire, and Plato.
We teach several of these classes to second- and third-year students together, with different assessments for each year group, to enable student progression over the course of the degree.
Another research group in the department, OLCAP (Object- and Landscape-Centred Approaches to the Past), focuses on material culture in research and teaching.
Throughout your Classical Studies degree, you will each have a peronal tutor from among the teaching staff to lend academic support.
See breakdown of modules per academic year below.
NOTE : Choose AT LEAST 2 AND UP TO 4  modules.
Swansea Employability Academy (SEA) will support you at each stage of your career journey, helping you build a bright future.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/combined-honours/ba-combined-honours:
Tailor your studies across literature and culture, heritage and history, media and modern languages to explore the influence of the Humanities upon the world in which we live.
Our BA Combined Honours is a challenging, rewarding, and flexible degree programme, which will enable you to focus on your individual interests, strengths, and long-term career goals.
You will have one compulsory module each year which will serve as the foundation for your exploration of the different disciplines of the humanities.
This compulsory module will be complemented by your choice of a wide range of elective modules covering (Menu A) Literature, Media and Language, (Menu B) History, Heritage and Classics, and, (Menu C) Modern Languages.
Menu A - Culture
Menu B - Past and Present
Menu C - Modern Languages (Optional)
** optional language modules are available to study at both beginner and advanced levels.
It will also be possible to study some modules across the subject areas of Cymraeg, Media and Modern Languages through the medium of Welsh and a range of Welsh language bursaries may be available.
This interdisciplinary degree programme is as individual as you are.
If your interests lie in the Humanities, it will allow you to create your own, personalised degree programme, through an open-ended combination of modules and subject areas.
The result is a blend of knowledge, ability and experience that is unique to each student.
Along the way, you will have the opportunity to delve into diverse disciplines and examine political, social, cultural, economic, and ideological influences on societies past and present.
Moreover, by selecting modules across the arts and humanities, you will become adaptable and flexible in response to a range of circumstances: with a keen eye for detail and an enhanced capacity for critical thought, you will be readily able to see the bigger picture – a skill that is in high demand with prospective employers.
This programme is based within the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at Swansea, the home of world-leading teaching:
This course is based on our Singleton Campus, overlooking Swansea Bay, and nestled next to acres of parkland.
You will also be within close proximity to Swansea city, a vibrant, multi-cultural, safe, and budget-friendly city.
There are a wide range of accommodation options for students who want to live either on or off campus.
You will benefit from a nurturing and inclusive academic and student community.
Outside of your studies there are many opportunities to get involved in different sports clubs and societies.
These include the Ancient World Society, American Studies Society Creative Writing Society, History Society, Media Society, and weekly language cafes.
This exciting and varied degree programme will allow you to experience a range of subjects, themes, and topics, giving you a broad and nuanced understanding of the world.
You will be taught across a range of lecturers, seminars, workshops whilst benefitting from guest speakers, study visits and work placement opportunities.
Each year, there is one compulsory module which will anchor your understanding of the arts and humanities.
In Year One, our introductory module, ‘Humanities Essentials,’ includes visits to cultural sites in Swansea and further afield.
In Year Two you will complete a Multidisciplinary Project to develop your research and presentation skills.
In your final year you will produce a Dissertation or Project based on your individual interests.
This degree programme is available as a three-year programme.
Alternatively, you can extend your studies by one year by undertaking a Year Abroad or Year in Industry.
These additional options will allow you to further enhance your student experience by giving you access to unique cultural insights and skill-based opportunities.
On campus you will be supported throughout your studies with access to our outstanding resources and facilities.
These include dedicated library and computer suites, Richard Burton Archive collections, our unique on-campus museum, The Egypt Centre, Taliesin Arts and Cultural spaces, fully equipped film and editing studios, and translation and interpreting labs.
This programme will open a diverse range of career options, enabling you to follow your passions and shape your own future.
A degree in Combined Honours will boast your multidisciplinary skill set including exceptional research, organisational and critical thinking skills, as well as confidence in conveying information from a wide range of subjects and sources.
We expect our graduates to be critically agile, analytical thinkers, adept at research and with a strong problem-solving skillset, including the ability to make informed decisions.
The programme will include various forms of assessment, and you will be encouraged to develop team-working and communication skills through seminars, as well as project management and independent research skills as part of the dissertation/project module.
This breadth of ability combined with intellectual agility will ensure that you can compete successfully in the employment market whether you are looking to continue and/or undertake a career in:
You will also have access to the Swansea Employability Academy (SEA), providing comprehensive careers and employability support throughout your time at university and beyond.
Students can choose modules from:Literature, Media and Language (Menu A), History, Heritage and Classics (Menu B) and Modern Languages (Menu C).
NOTE : MENU A - Culture - Students MUST select a MINIMUM of 20 credits and a MAXIMUM of 80 credits from Menu A.
Students must balance their credits across teaching blocks and have a Level 4 total of 120 credits for the full academic year.
Students must account for pre-requisites, co-requisites and incompatibles in their selection and note that modules are offered subject to demand, availability and timetable constraints.
NOTE : MENU B -Past and Present - Students MUST select a MINIMUM of 20 credits and a MAXIMUM of 80 credits from Menu B.
NOTE : MENU C - Modern Languages (Cymraeg, French, German, Italian, Spanish) -  Students CAN select a MAXIMUM of 40 credits from Menu C in place of credit from Menu A or Menu B but are NOT REQUIRED to.
Modules ending in W are taught through the medium of Welsh.
NOTE : MENU A - LITERATURE, MEDIA AND LANGUAGE - Students MUST select a MINIMUM of 20 credits and a MAXIMUM of 80 credits from Menu A.
Students must balance their credits across teaching blocks and have a Level 5 total of 120 credits for the full academic year.
Students must account for pre-requisites, co-requisites and incompatibles in their selection and note that modules are offered subject to demand, availability and timetable constraints
NOTE : MENU B - HISTORY, HERITAGE AND CLASSICS - Students MUST select a MINIMUM of 20 credits and a MAXIMUM of 80 credits from Menu B.
NOTE : MENU C - Modern Languages - is OPTIONAL.
Students CAN select a MAXIMUM of 40 credits from Menu C in place of credit from Menu A or Menu B but are NOT REQUIRED to.
NOTE : MENU A - LITERATURE, MEDIA AND LANGUAGE - Students MUST select a MINIMUM of 20 credits and a MAXIMUM of 60 credits from Menu A.
Students must balance their credits across teaching blocks and have a Level 6 total of 120 credits for the full academic year.
NOTE : MENU B - HISTORY, HERITAGE AND CLASSICS - Students MUST select a MINIMUM of 20 credits and a MAXIMUM of 60 credits from Menu B.
It is currently possible to study some modules through the medium of Welsh across the subject areas including:
You can find out more about our academic expertise on our School of Culture and Communication pages.
The University advocates for only paid placements which on average have a salary of over £15,000.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/computer-science/bsc-computer-science-ai:
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is becoming ubiquitous and plays a major role in improving every walk of lives.
The Department of Computer Science, which is home to an EPSRC Doctoral Training Centre on Human-centred AI, is addressing a clear and challenging need to put people at the heart of AI research and innovation for data-driven and intelligent technologies.
Our world-leading research and passion to develop students into outstanding AI professionals empowered us to launch a Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence degree programme.
This degree scheme covers the fundamentals of Computer Science (CS) and puts specific focus on advanced AI and related applications.
The first year will provide students with the foundation of computer science, including programming, maths and logic, and a dedicated data science module in preparation for human-centred AI.
Our diverse academic team will develop your knowledge of fundamental computer science concepts and how they can be applied to solve real-world problems.
You will have access to dedicated computer laboratories and specialised equipment for projects, including Arduinos, smart home technologies and virtual reality headsets.
Showcase your work at the Computer Science colloquium and our annual Project Fair.
Our graduates have become: Analyst Developers, Business Analysts, Computer Programmers, Electronic Engineers, Graphic Designers, Software Developers and Machine Learning Engineers with companies that include IBM, Google, Disney, Facebook, Microsoft and Sony.
We hold an annual 'Project Fair' giving students the chance to display their third year projects to leading industry experts.
Companies such as Google often visit our students to give lectures on 'how to get a job with tech giants'.
You will study the following set of compulsory modules in the early stages of the degree, before specialising according to your own interests in later stages.
Half of the final year comprises individual and group projects.
Choose Maximum Of 45 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : **Guidance note: Please note that CSC306 Writing Mobile Apps and CSC348 Web Application Development are both coursework-based modules and will have major deadlines at the end of the semester (possibly the same date).
We recommend you do not take both of these modules.
If you decide to take both modules, you will need to manage your workload throughout the term carefully.
**Guidance note (CSC390): This module requires a pre-enrolment check for the school placement.
NOTE : * Guidance note (CSC309): CSC309 takes place over both Term 1 and Term 2, but the main assessment is in Term 2
NOTE : * Guidance note (CSC309): CSC309 takes place over both Term 1 and Term 2, but the main assessment is in Term 2.
NOTE :
You will join our Computer Science community, being taught by world-leading lecturers who are all passionate about their research working towards the United Nations Sustainable Goals to shape the world for the better.
Our related research areas include Data Visualization, Computer Vision, Data Mining, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Visual Analytics, Data Science, Computer Graphics, Interaction and GPU programming along with other areas such as cryptocurrencies, data security, cyberterrorism and Future interaction technologies.
See all our Computer Science staff
92% of Graduates are in employment and/or other study 15 months after leaving Swansea University.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/computer-science/bsc-computer-science-with-foundation-year:
This Foundation Year option is suitable if you do not have the relevant qualifications to directly start the three-year BSc in Computer Science or BSc Software Engineering programmes.
Its content will prepare you and enable you to experience other science subjects at Swansea.
When you continue to the full Computer Science degree, it will put you on course for highly specialised and dynamic careers in software engineering, big data and data science, security analysis or emerging technologies.
Computer Science at Swansea University has an excellent reputation and major appeal to students from different countries and disciplines.
Within six months of leaving, 93% of graduates are either in employment or continuing their studies.
Our diverse academic team will develop your knowledge of fundamental computer science concepts and how they can be applied to solve real-world problems.
Showcase your work at the Computer Science colloquium and our annual Project Fair.
A flexibly structured degree path means you have the opportunity to study abroad for a year or work in industry for a year, either locally, nationally or overseas.
Our £32.5 million Computational Foundry is home to state-of-the-art teaching and research facilities which include a Vision and Biometric Lab, Maker Lab, Theory Lab, Cyber Security/Networking Lab, User Lab and Visualisation Suite.
Students will benefit from world-leading experimental set-ups, equipment, devices and prototypes to accelerate innovation.
You will have the opportunity to learn about and work with these facilities.
Our graduates have become: Analyst Developers, Business analysts, Computer Programmers, Electronic Engineers, Graphic Designers, Software Developers and Machine Learning Engineers with companies that include IBM, Google, Disney, Facebook, Microsoft and Sony.
We hold an annual ‘Project Fair’, giving students the chance to display their third year projects to leading Industry experts.
Companies such as Google often visit our students to give lectures on ‘how to get a job with tech giants’.
5 reasons to study Computer Science at Swansea
A day in the life of our Computer Science student Mikaela
You will study the following set of compulsory modules in the early stages of the degree, before specialising according to your own interests in later stages, leading to a dissertation and large scientific project.
International/EU Students: Your Foundation Year will be taught by The College and your modules may differ.
NOTE : The maximum credit limit applies to this section and to the CS-239/CS-279 sub-section.
The BSc in Computer Science with Integrated Foundation is accredited by the British Computer Society , and allows graduates to join immediately as professional members.
Our research areas include cryptocurrencies, data security, cyberterrorism and Future interaction technologies.
Our Computer Science graduates are set on course for a range of stimulating opportunities.
Our graduates have enjoyed roles in companies such as IBM, Google, Disney and Sony.
You may find your future lies in a role as a software designer, engineer or tester.
You might work as a data scientist or in smartphone technology.
Such is the pace of technological progress, you might even specialise in an emerging area which is not yet fully recognised.
All students on our undergraduate courses are assigned a Personal Tutor who will offer you not only Academic Guidance, but advice on finding and accessing help with personal issues.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/computer-science/bsc-computer-science:
Our BSc Computer Science degree will teach you about computer graphics, computer systems modelling, software engineering, data visualisation, how to write mobile apps and some of the more advanced theoretical aspects of computer science.
You will develop your programming skills in C and Java.
This programme is accredited by the British Computer Society , and allows graduates to join immediately as professional members.
You will study the following set of compulsory modules in the early stages of the degree, before specialising according to your own interests in later stages, leading to a dissertation.
Places and availability change annually so specific destinations can’t be guaranteed, but previously Computer Science students have completed their year abroad in Australia, Canada, Singapore, Germany Spain and the USA.
Find out more at our Go Global pages ( www.swansea.ac.uk/goglobal )
Our Year in industry degrees incorporate an industrial placement during your third year of study.
You will apply for your placement at a company of your choice, with support from our Employability team, who will be with you every step of the way.
You will gain invaluable Industry experience while working with business professionals in the area of your choice.
If you want a successful career in the IT sector then our Year in industry will help you gain experience on your route into your chosen profession.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/computer-science/msci-computer-science:
This four-year degree prepares you for highly specialised and dynamic careers.
These might include software engineering, big data and data science, security analysis or emerging technologies and will distinguish you as a committed and knowledgeable Computer Scientist.
Showcase your work to staff and students at the annual Project Fair.
NOTE : *Guidance note: CSCM445 is a pre-requisite to CSCM477
NOTE : The maximum credit limit applies to the modules in this section and also the CSC306/CSC348 and CSC318/CSC345 sub-sections.
You cannot take both CSC306 and CSC306B in the same Academic Year.
The same rule applies to CSC348/CSC348B, CSC318/CSC318B and CSC345/CSC345B.
Choose Maximum Of 15 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : The maximum credit limit applies to the modules in this section and also the CSC306B/CSC348B and CSC318B/CSC345B sub-sections.
NOTE : Guidance note: CSCM445 is a pre-requisite to CSCM477
Find out more at our Go Global pages ( www.swansea.ac.uk/goglobal)

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/criminology-sociology-social-policy/bsc-criminology-criminal-justice:
The criminology undergraduate degree will give you the opportunity to examine the many factors involved in criminal behaviour, and how society responds through the criminal justice system.
You will study the most important theories of crime and deviance and their relevance to contemporary criminal justice policy, research, and practice.
Alongside this, you will gain an in-depth knowledge of the structures of the criminal justice system, covering the courts, prison, the probation service, and the police.
Throughout your studies, you will develop excellent research and analytical skills and learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
Based at the School of Social Sciences, you will benefit from being part of a lively and diverse environment, with a strong reputation for its research and teaching.
Criminology at Swansea is ranked:
Our flexible degree structure with a range of optional modules in your second and third years gives you plenty of scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions for postgraduate study.
We can support you with arranging work placement opportunities in a wide range of settings, both in the UK and abroad.
Studying a BSc in Criminology and Criminal Justice at Swansea University can lead to a range of careers.
Our graduates go on to a wide variety of occupations, which include working in:
Community Development, Criminal Justice, Local Government, the Police Force, Postgraduate Study, the Prison Service, the Probation Service, Research, Social Work, Education, Training, UK Government, Victim Support and Voluntary Organisations.
BSc Criminology and Criminal Justice module structure.
Year 1 consists of a set of compulsory core modules, which range from the criminal justice system to crime and society.
Year 2 will comprise of three compulsory modules, but will also give you the opportunity to study at least another three modules of your choice.
By year 3, you will be able to shape your learning experience, choosing from a range of final year modules.
NOTE : Please select exactly 20 credits from TB1
NOTE : Please select exactly 60 credits from TB2.
If considering a Dissertation in a Criminology topic, you will need to select ASC200 Developing and Planning a Research Project.
NOTE : In order to select the ASC324 Dissertation, you must have taken ASC222 Developing and Planning a Research Project in Year 2.
You must select 120 credits from the optional modules.
Please ensure that your total credits are split evenly over Semester 1 and Semester 2.
NOTE : Please select exactly 20 credits from the following modules:
NOTE : If considering a Dissertation in a Criminology topic, you will need to select ASC200 Developing and Planning a Research Project.
Please select exactly 60 credits from the following modules:
Our criminology degrees give you the opportunity to learn from academics who are industry experts, with a wealth of academic and practical experience.
The School of Social Sciences is home to a vibrant academic community dedicated to understanding some of society’s most challenging issues.
The School of Social Sciences takes a proactive approach to enhancing graduate employability, with a dedicated Employability and Placements Officer.
The School offers a range of local, national and international work placements, professional courses, advice and support to help you develop the skills required to achieve your ambitions.
Academic Support at the School of Social Sciences
There are student representatives in each year of our programmes as well as a School representative for undergraduate students.
The School also has a dedicated Student Information Office who will be able to offer academic assistance throughout your studies.
Undergraduate Criminology Reading List

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/psychology/criminology-and-psychology-bsc-hons:
Our BSc in Criminology and Psychology will give you expert scientific training in the relationship between the mind, brain, and behaviour together with an in-depth understanding of criminal justice theory and the links between these two areas.
You will gain a detailed knowledge and understanding of the most important theories of crime and deviance and their relevance to contemporary criminal justice policy, research, and practice.
Throughout your studies, you will develop excellent research, critical analysis, and communication skills, as well as a high degree of numeracy and ICT ability.
Our School of Psychology has an outstanding reputation both in the UK and internationally.
In the most recent research assessment, we were proud to maintain our research culture with a strong record of translating science into real-world consequences, with 100% of our impact rated as internationally excellent (REF2021).
Criminology at Swansea University is ranked:
The Psychology degree is validated by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and, providing you achieve at least a 2:2 in your degree, you will be eligible for Graduate Membership of the BPS and for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC), the first step to becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Our flexible degree structure with an extensive range of final year optional modules gives you the scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions for post-graduate study.
You have the option of transferring to our four-year BSc Criminology and Psychology with a Year Abroad course and spend your third year broadening your skills and experience at one of our partner universities in Australia, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, and the United States.
As this BPS accredited degree is the first step towards pursuing a professional career in Psychology, many of our graduates have gone on to further study or work in specialist psychology fields.
The typical starting salary for an NHS trainee clinical psychologist is £35,392.
As your career progresses you could earn between £50,056 and £96,376 or higher.
Salaries in private practice vary.
You also have many opportunities in the criminal justice system, including roles with the police, victim support, and prison and probation services.
The experience and skills you will gain on this course will also equip you well for careers in other areas of health and social care, as well as sectors as varied as management, research, and marketing.
Your early studies will introduce you to the key principles of law, criminal justice, human rights, statistics and research methods, and aspects of biological, social, and developmental psychology.
Later options allow you to focus on a range of criminology and psychology options alongside compulsory core modules.
NOTE : Select Criminology modules from those listed below.
Please ensure that the number of credits that you are doing each semester are balanced.
NOTE : Select one module, depending on where you are spending your year abroad
The British Psychological Society (BPS).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/bsccriminologysocialpolicy:
This joint honours degree in Criminology and Social Policy combines two exciting and rapidly-developing subject areas that each have an enormous influence on all of our lives.
You will explore key theories and debates relating to how societies meet the needs of their citizens and the ways that social policies are shaped by the causes and effects of crime on individuals and communities.
You will examine themes and values such as social justice, equality, fairness, and citizenship, alongside specific policy focal points such as crime, health, education, housing, disability, poverty, and the family, as well as gaining an in-depth understanding of the criminal justice system.
Throughout your joint honours degree, you will develop excellent research and analytical skills and the ability to communicate your ideas effectively, both verbally and in writing.
Based in the School of Social Sciences, you will benefit from being part of a lively and diverse environment, with a strong reputation for its research and teaching.
Social Policy at Swansea is ranked:
*Based on the average positivity score for questions 1 - 26 NSS 2025 and **Q28, NSS 2025
Our flexible degree structure gives you the scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions for postgraduate study.
You will benefit from a diverse and dynamic research environment with many opportunities to build connections across disciplines.
A Social Policy and Criminology degree opens up a wide range of career and further study opportunities.
You could move into:
BSc Criminology and Social Policy structure.
Your early studies will introduce you to the key principles of law, criminal justice, human rights, and the sociology, history, and politics of social policy.
Later options allow you to focus on a range of topics including youth justice, extremism, offender management, drugs and alcohol, poverty and social exclusion.
Please select exactly 20 credits from the following modules:
NOTE : Students who wish to pursue ASC324 Dissertation can ONLY select 20 credits of optional modules from the Semester 2 selection below.
To select this module, students MUST have pursued ASC222  in Year 2.
NOTE : If you have NOT chosen ASC324 Dissertation, choose 20 credits from the following modules.
Students must not exceed 60 credits per semester.
NOTE : Choose one of the following modules:
NOTE : •	If you have NOT chosen ASC324 Dissertation, choose 40 credits from the following modules.
•	If you HAVE chosen ASC324 Dissertation, choose 20 credits from the following modules.
To select this module, students MUST have pursued ASC222 in Year 2.
NOTE : • If you have NOT chosen ASC324 Dissertation, choose 40 credits from the following modules.
• If you HAVE chosen ASC324 Dissertation, choose 20 credits from the following modules.
Optional modules will be offered subject to demand, availability and timetable constraints
Our Criminology & Social Policy degree will give you the opportunity to learn from industry experts with a wealth of academic and practical experiences.
The School of Social Sciences offer an exceptional student experience and a progressive curriculum, which will help you to understand how crime can affect individuals and society.
The School of Social Sciences take a proactive approach to enhancing graduate employability, with dedicated Employability and Placements Officers.
Together, they offer a range of local, national and international work placements, professional courses and the advice and support to help you develop the skills to achieve your ambitions.
Academic Support at the School of Social Sciences
There are student representatives in each year of our programmes as well as a school representative for undergraduate students.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/bsccriminologyandsociology:
Our integrated BSc Criminology and Sociology degree brings together two exciting and complementary social science disciplines.
You will study the development of Sociological and Criminological perspectives and learn why these matter so much in contemporary society.
Alongside this, you will gain an in-depth knowledge of crucial social and crime-related matters, such as substance use, housing and poverty.
Throughout your studies, you will develop a range of transferable skills which are relevant to future employment, both in social science-related professions, as well as far broader.
Based at the School of Social Sciences, you will benefit from being part of a lively and diverse environment.
Sociology at Swansea is ranked:
Studying a BSc in Criminology and Sociology at Swansea University can lead to a range of careers.
Your early studies will introduce you to the key principles of criminal justice, individuals and society, social science research, law and human rights.
Later options allow you to focus on a range of topics including offender rehabilitation, citizenship and surveillance, terrorism, and the criminalisation of sex.
Select 60 credits from the following modules.
Students are advised to consider a balance of credits across the year.
Choose Exactly 100 credits from the following Modules:
Select exactly 100 credits from the below optional modules.
Please ensure you select an even balance of credits across the two teaching blocks
Our degrees are taught by industry experts, who have real-world experience, providing them with a wealth of knowledge, which can be passed on to you.
The School of Social Sciences takes a proactive approach to enhancing graduate employability, with a dedicated Employability and Placements Team.
The School offers a range of placements, as well as the advice and support to help you develop the skills and knowledge needed to achieve your ambitions.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/media-comms-journalism-pr/ba-welsh-media-public-relations-first-language:
The degree meets the needs of twenty-first century students and employers.
Combining the two disciplines provides a solid academic foundation as well as a broad range of transferrable and media-related skills which are valued by employers and are key to a range of careers in contemporary Wales.
This course will not only provide students with the necessary knowledge of grammar and literature, language skills and transferable skills but will also help you develop a strong understanding of the history and theories in the fields of media and public relations, as well as an awareness of current and changing developments of the impact they have on society and the business world.
We know from experience that you should engage with potential employers throughout your time at Swansea University, and our contacts within the industry across Wales and Britain mean that you have the opportunity to meet and discuss your future with some of the UK's leading public relations producers, directors and practitioners.
You will benefit from the skills and experience of prominent authors and poets on our academic team, including two Prifeirdd, and winners of the Wales Book of the Year competition.
Media at Swansea is ranked:
Celtic Studies at Swansea is ranked:
Our flexible degree structure with a range of optional modules gives you plenty of scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions for postgraduate study.
We place great importance on helping you to develop the professional skills valued by employers and you will have work placements as part of your studies in your second and third years.
We also arrange a variety of paid work placements, as well as voluntary placements.
A first language Welsh degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities, in fields such as marketing, media, politics, language planning, business, youth work, education, translation, and administration.
Your first year is made up of compulsory modules covering essential critical skills, translation, the poetic tradition, and the development of the Welsh language.
In your second and third years, you will have a wide choice of optional modules alongside core subjects, enabling you to develop your studies in line with your particular interests.
NOTE : Select two modules.
Overall you need three CY coded modules and three MSW coded modules
NOTE : Select one module.
Overall you should have 60 credits of CY modules and 60 credits of MSW modules.
Overall you must select 60cr of CY modules and 60cr of MSW modules.
NOTE : You need to select 60 credits in TB1 and 60 credits in TB2.
In total you should have 60 credits of CY modules and 60 credits of MSW modules.
If you take MSW309 you must also take MSW312 but you can take MSW312 without taking MSW309.
If you aim to study at least 80 credits in Welsh, prospective students (for 2024-25) can apply for the Coleg Cymraeg Main Scholarship (£1000 per year for 3 years).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/computer-science/bsc-digital-technology:
Why is digital technology designed the way it is?
Who designs it and for whom?
Have you ever considered why the default voice assistant is female?
What’s the real cost of cloud computing and artificial intelligence?
How can technology help people first ?
The Digital Technology degree covers the creation, critical examination, and deployment of digital data and systems, and their impact on societies (and other environments) around the world.
Its broad scope will enable you to develop your knowledge and understanding of the digital world, and how digital technologies can be made and used creatively, productively, and safely.
Throughout the three-year programme, you will encounter topics that will expand your appreciation of the societal, cultural, economic, and political impacts of Digital Technology.
You will be able to utilise a set of industry standard tools to plan, develop and produce digital products ranging from marketing campaigns to computer games.
By the end of the degree, you will be equipped with the skills to enter a range of different digital-based roles across a wide spectrum of industries and public services.
You will also benefit from significant transferrable skills in research, communication, and engagement.
This degree programme sits within the Department of Computer Science at Swansea University, which has a strong innovative research reputation developed by our international student and staff community.
Did you know?
Our diverse academic team will help you develop your knowledge of fundamental technological concepts and how they can be applied to solve real-world problems.
You will have access to dedicated computer laboratories and specialised equipment for projects, such as Arduinos, smart home technologies, and virtual reality headsets.
There will be ample opportunity for you to showcase your work to fellow students and industry specialists, for example at the Computer Science Undergraduate Colloquium and our annual Project Fair.
Our £32.5 million Computational Foundry is home to state-of-the-art teaching and research facilities which include a Vision and Biometric Lab, Maker Lab, Theory Lab, Cyber Security/Networking Lab, Robotics Lab, User Lab, and Visualisation Suite.
You will benefit from world-leading experimental set-ups, equipment, devices and prototypes to accelerate innovation; and have the opportunity to learn about and work with these facilities.
Our Computer Science graduates have found employment in such diverse roles as: Analyst Developers, Business Analysts, Computer Programmers, Electronic Engineers, Graphic Designers, Software Developers and Machine Learning Engineers; with companies that include IBM, Google, Disney, Facebook, Microsoft and Sony.
Your Digital Technology degree will offer an even broader suite of potential careers including in digital and social, media, marketing, consultancy, technology solutions, education, and more.
We have strong industrial links with global and local employers, such as Google, the DVLA, Admiral, and more, with representatives visiting our department to give lectures on 'How to get a job with Tech Giants'.
NOTE : * Guidance note (CSC390): This module requires a pre-enrolment check for the school placement.
As such, you cannot enrol onto this module if you have not responded to the advertised calls in March requiring you to inform the module coordinator of your intent to enrol.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/education-childhood-studies/ba-early-childhood-studies-eyps-foundation-year:
Early Childhood Studies with Early Years Practitioner Status (EYPS) offers a holistic approach to understanding children from birth to eight years.
It marks the importance of early childhood as a significant period in life which is the basis for a life-long-learning, where children are viewed as capable and competent members of society.
Students spend 700 hours (approximately 20 weeks) on placement in early childhood settings and are required to display competency in National Occupational Standards set by Social Care Wales.
Graduates will qualify with the Early Years Practitioner Status qualification awarded by Social Care Wales.
Early Childhood Studies at Swansea is ranked:
You will learn how to support children and recognise them as being at the centre of families, communities and the wider socio-economic world.
You will study diversity, the uniqueness of each child and how Early Childhood professionals can support children in difficult situations such as those suffering from trauma and in social crisis.
Early Childhood Studies currently has an increasingly significant high profile internationally at government level and within international organisations, where children’s rights, health, well-being and social problems have attracted much attention due to recent global movements and the refugee crisis.
The course aims to provide specific education and training for those wanting to work with infants, toddlers and young children in a professional capacity.
You will start the degree course in your second year.
Early Childhood Studies with EYPS with a foundation year at Swansea is a flexible degree offering a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
You will learn about the best ways to support children and families and community connections.
You will earn qualified Early Years Practitioner Status (EYPS), gaining practical work-based experience combined with theoretical and policy-based knowledge as well as the transferable skills required for effective Early Years practice.
You will have the opportunity to undertake work placements in organisations such as schools, local authorities, businesses and charities to enhance your student experience and your career prospects.
Our graduates will qualify with the Early Years Practitioner Status qualification awarded by Social Care Wales.
Careers can include:
You will need an additional study for some careers, such as Initial Teacher Education (ITE) or Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) qualification to become a teacher.
You’ll then progress to your degree
In the following three years, you will study areas that include contemporary education; the origin and theory of educational research and education in other countries; child development; protecting and promoting wellbeing in education; educational neuroscience and difference and diversity in education.
You will complete an independent research-based dissertation in the final year, developing the knowledge and skills to become a research-effective educationalist.
View the Early Childhood Studies Reading List .
The DBS Update Service:
The Update Service is a paid annual subscription that keeps your DBS certificate up to date, allowing you to reuse your certificate for future work and placements.
We strongly advise you to register for the Update Service to avoid having to apply for a new enhanced DBS certificate for each placement.
You can subscribe through the DBS website , though you must do so within 30 days of the issue date of your DBS certificate.
If you are already subscribed to the Update Service then please email cas.admissions@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/artsandhumanities/education/ba-early-childhood-studies-with-eyps:
Early Childhood Studies with Early Years Practitioner Status (EYPS) offers a holistic approach to understanding children from birth to eight years.
On this course students are required to spend a minimum of 700 hours (approximately 20 weeks) on placement in early childhood settings and are required to display competency in National Occupational Standards to meet Social Care Wales standards.
Placements are full-time and set out in blocks of between five and ten weeks.
Graduates will qualify with the Early Years Practitioner Status qualification.
ECS currently has an increasingly significant high profile internationally at government level and within international organisations, where children’s rights, health, well-being and social problems have attracted much attention due to recent global movements and the refugee crisis.
Early Childhood Studies at Swansea is a flexible degree offering a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
You will have the opportunity to undertake placements in organisations such as Flying Start centres, primary schools, private nurseries and other childcare settings to enhance your student experience and your career prospects.
In the first year of study, you will be taught through lectures and tutorials.
Assessment will be coursework, essay and examination.
In the second year, you will learn through seminars and group-work.
Assessment will be varied including coursework, essays, group presentations and examination.
In the final year, you will undertake independent study through research methods, a dissertation or practice portfolio and also be taught through seminars and group-work.
Assessment includes independent research dissertation, independent presentation, coursework and examination.
700 hours of placement are carried out across the three year course.
View the Early Childhood Studies Reading List
Please be aware that all students are required to complete an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check (or Police check for overseas students) as part of the enrolment process for our Early Childhood Studies programmes and there is a cost for this service.
Please see our DBS Application Guidance page for more details.
You can subscribe through the DBS website , though you must do so within 30 days of the issue date of your DBS certificate .
Application information – UK, EU and international students.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/economics/bsc-economics-top-up:
Please note: This course is for International students only.
For UK students, see our other Economics degrees .
BSc Economics (Top Up Degree) enables you to top up your higher education qualification to a bachelor’s degree even if you have not studied Economics previously.
Our one-year top up degree focusses on the core elements of economics such as Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Econometrics and quantitative methods attractive to applicants with a background in subjects such as maths, science, finance or statistics.
Modules on the Top Up Degree are co-taught with the BSc Economics programme ensuring that you benefit from mixed cohorts and gain insight from a diverse range of cultures and backgrounds to enhance your cross-cultural understanding and develop networks.
Gain real-world know-how from our world-leading lecturers with unrivalled experience in both industry and academia and be part of a diverse student body from over 60 different countries.
Economics at Swansea is ranked:
Our Economics (Top Up Degree) provides an understanding of modern economic principles and a comprehensive knowledge base of micro and macro economics, mathematics, statistics, methodological considerations and applied topic areas.
From the moment you arrive at the School of Social Sciences we will work with you to help build your skills and experience to enhance your career prospects.
You will have unlimited one to one bespoke careers advice from our dedicated careers team.
You may be able to go on a work placement or internship through the Swansea Paid Internship Network (SPIN).
You will have the opportunity to participate in forums hosted by the Swansea University Economics Society; meet and learn from successful entrepreneurs and receive business advice from professional advisers, as well as having the chance to pitch for seed funding and mentorship through the Faculty’s annual pitching competition.
By effectively ‘studying abroad in the UK’, you will have the opportunity to substantially develop your English language skills and gain enhanced intercultural awareness, attributes that are highly sought after in the job market.
Our Economics (Top Up Degree) is designed to significantly enhance your employability, and to enable you to develop skills that will equip you effectively for work across a wide range of sectors.
The degree will support the career development and employability ambitions for those of you intending to undertake a career in roles such as:
The BSc Economics degree, which the Economics (Top Up Degree) shadows, has an excellent reputation for producing elite graduates, many of whom have progressed to work with world-leading brands such as Barclays, HSBC and PwC.
As well as preparing you for your chosen career in the global economics market, this degree is perfect for those with aspirations to further their education at postgraduate level.
Upon successful completion of this degree with a classification of lower second class or higher, students are equipped for entry onto relevant postgraduate programmes such as MSc Economics.
Applicants will typically have studied a Foundation Degree, HND or equivalent.
Ideally, applicants will have a quantitative background in a subject allied to economics such as International Economy and Trade; Business and Management; Financial Management, Finance, Mathematics and Statistics where there is evidence of principles of economics having previously been studied.
Applicants with a background in science subjects such as Civil Engineering, could also be accepted if there is evidence of quantitative modules having previously been taken.
In summary, applicants will typically have experience of introductory economic principles or a strong quantitative background.
Students will be admitted on the basis of Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
As a guideline, below are examples of the overall grades we would typically accept, subject to a match in prior study:
For students who fall short of only the English language requirement we offer a range of pre-sessional training programmes that you may take before starting your degree programme.
Please note: this course is for international students only.
For UK Students, see our other Economics degrees.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in a broad range of economic and/or financial areas of industry.
The School of Social Sciences also has a dedicated in-house Employability team offering additional support.
Students will be invited to attend relevant events as part of the School’s Research seminar series.
Apply now – UK, EU and international students.
EU students - visa and immigration information is available and will be regularly updated on our information for EU students page.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/bsceconandbus-foundationyear:
Do you see yourself working in investment banking, politics or even as a manager within an international organisation?
The BSc Economics and Business with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Economics and Business course, the BSc Economics and Business with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in economics and business, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Economics and Business degree within the School of Social Sciences.
Studying economics and business can lead to an exciting career.
Across the four years, you will learn how to confidently apply knowledge, investigative and model-building skills to advise different types of organisations.
From private businesses to the government, you can have a tangible impact on economic policy.
At Swansea you can:
The BSc Economics and Business with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Early teaching delivers a comprehensive base of knowledge encompassing micro and macro-economics, statistics, finance, accounting and methodology.
In later years you have greater module choice, covering specialist areas of economic development and mathematics.
As a graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure financially rewarding employment.
A number of graduates have progressed to work for the world’s biggest brands such as Barclays, HSBC and PwC.
Whether you target the pressured energy of a trading floor or the credibility of becoming an authority on business trends, this degree will make you a strong candidate for any graduate employer.
Your future job title could be any of the following:
Early studies give you a solid foundation in microeconomics, macroeconomics, finance, accounting and current issues.
NOTE : Students need to select one of the following options, depending on whether they took A Level Maths.
EC-1018 is for students who completed A-Level Maths and achieved a Grade C or above 
EC-1019 is for students who do not have an A-Level in Maths or have achieved a Grade D or below
NOTE : Students need to select one of the following options, depending on whether they would like the module taught in English or Welsh.
Please choose EXACTLY 15 credits from the following modules:
NOTE : Students should select EXACTLY 15 credits from the following list.
NOTE: Pre-requisites need to be taken in a previous year and co-requisites to be selected in the current year.
NOTE : Students should choose EXACTLY 15 credits from the following modules:
NOTE : Students should select exactly 30 credits from the following list, and should aim to balance their options over the two semesters.
NOTE : Students should select 60 credits from the following list, and should aim to balance their options over the two semesters.
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in a politics, policy, business or finance.
We also have a dedicated in-house Employability team offering additional support.
for those wanting to study at the School of Social Science

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/bsceconomicsandbusiness:
A strong Economics and Business degree can lead you to many different careers, from investment banking and management consultancy to politics and management roles within international organisations.
The BSc Economics and Business degree at Swansea University has an excellent reputation for producing high performing graduates.
A number of them have progressed to work for the world’s biggest brands such as Barclays , HSBC and PwC , and the world’s most respected institutions, including a number of government bodies.
Combining core elements of economics and business, this degree is ideal if you want a career in politics, policy, business or finance.
It gives a solid theoretical and practical understanding of economic principles in relation to business environments, as well as the analytical techniques employed in business decision-making and strategy.
By the end of the course you will be able to confidently apply knowledge, investigative and model-building skills to advise different types of organisations.
Economics and Business at Swansea is a versatile degree offering the the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
These personally enriching opportunities can enhance your skill-set, develop your perspective and broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
This degree gives you a robust understanding of modern economic principles and contemporary issues.
Early teaching delivers a comprehensive base of knowledge encompassing micro and macro economics, statistics, finance, accounting and methodology.
In later years you have greater module choice covering specialist areas of business, politics, economic development and mathematics.
Economics and Business graduates from Swansea are poised for financially rewarding and mentally challenging employment opportunities.
Our BSc Economics and Business degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections
The School also offers a Developing Futures Scholarship for international undergraduate students who have an offer to study at the School*.
*any student in receipt of an EU Transitional Bursary would not be eligible for the Developing Futures Scholarship as cannot be combined with any other bursary/scholarship
We also have a dedicated in-house Employability team offering additional support.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/economics/bsc-economics-finance-foundation-year:
Do you see yourself in a senior finance role within an international organisation?
Do you want to play a pivotal role in the success of a large business?
The BSc Economics and Finance with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Economics and Finance course, the BSc Economics and Finance with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in economics and finance, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Economics and Finance degree within the School of Social Sciences.
Blending core elements of economics and finance, this degree provides a comprehensive understanding of modern economics and its application within the financial industry.
The chance to concentrate on specialist areas such as corporate finance will develop your appreciation of the relationship between economic analysis and financial operations.
The BSc Economics and Finance with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
NOTE : Students should select 15 credits from the following list.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for various career options, including politics, policy, economics, finance or consultancy.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/economics/bsc-economics-finance:
An Economics and Finance degree can lead to a genuine variety of careers, from investment banking and management consultancy to senior finance roles within international organisations.
The BSc Economics and Finance degree at Swansea University has an excellent reputation.
It has produced high performing graduates who have been hired by the world’s biggest brands such as Barclays , HSBC and PwC , and the world’s most respected organisations, including major financial institutions and government bodies.
Over the course of your studies, consistently observing how theory impacts practice will enhance your strategic decision-making abilities.
By the time you graduate, you will be confident in the application of your knowledge, investigative and model-building skills to effectively advise different types of organisations.
Economics and Finance at Swansea is a versatile degree offering the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
These personally enriching opportunities can shape your skill-set, widen your perspective and broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
In later years you have greater module choice covering specialist areas of finance, politics, economic development and mathematics.
As well as setting you up for a career as an economic and finance specialist within an organisation, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
Economics and Finance graduates from Swansea are poised for financially rewarding and mentally rigorous employment opportunities.
Whether you target the pressured energy of a trading floor or the credibility of becoming an authority on finance trends, this degree will make you a strong candidate for any graduate employer.
Our BSc Economics and Finance degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections
We also have a dedicated in-house Employability team offering additional support.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a Year In Industry, in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £20,000 on average.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/economics/bsc-economics-foundation-year:
Does working for a top financial brand excite you?
Do you see yourself working for the likes of Barclays , HSBC or PwC ?
The BSc Economics with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University could help you achieve this.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Economics course, the BSc Economics with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in economics, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Economics degree within the School of Social Sciences.
An Economics degree can help to unlock a huge variety of careers, from investment banking and management consultancy to politics and management roles in global organisations.
Swansea University has an excellent reputation for producing elite graduates, many of whom have progressed to work with world-leading financial brands.
Economics with a Foundation Year at Swansea is ranked:
The BSc Economics with a Foundation Year at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Your first year (the Foundation Year) is taught at The College, located on the Bay Campus and your final three years are taught within the School of Social Sciences on Singleton Campus.
EC-1018 is for students who completed A-Level Maths and achieved a Grade E or above
EC-1019 is for students who do NOT have an A-Level in Maths.
NOTE : Students should select a minimum of 15 credits from the following list, and should aim to balance their options over the two semesters.
NOTE : Students should select a maximum of 30 credits from the following list, and should aim to balance their options over the two semesters.
Choose Minimum Of 60 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Students must study at least 60 credits of options from the Economics elective list.
Students should be mindful to ensure that they have a balance of module credits across the two semesters
NOTE : Students have the option to select up to 30 credits from selected School of Management module options: Students may pick a Year 3 module from the Business Management or Accounting & Finance options listed below, subject to completing the necessary pre-requisite and/or co-requisite modules.
We recommend that students balance module credits across the two semesters.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/economics/bsc-economics:
The BSc Economics degree at Swansea University has an excellent reputation for producing elite graduates, many of whom have progressed to work with world-leading brands such as Barclays , HSBC and PwC .
You will be taught economic theory blended with mathematical and statistical elements.
This helps to build the analytical tools, knowledge and techniques needed to thrive in a financially rewarding economics position.
Constantly updated to maintain a modern, real-world relevance, the BSc Economics is equally suitable if you are targeting a career as an economist, if you are open to employment across different economic and financial fields, or if you are considering an extended path of postgraduate studies.
Economics at Swansea is a flexible degree giving you the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
These personally character-building opportunities can further shape your skill-set and broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
Our flagship degree gives you a robust understanding of modern economic principles and contemporary issues.
Economics graduates from Swansea are poised for financially rewarding and mentally challenging employment opportunities.
EC-1018 is for students who completed A-Level Maths and achieved a Grade E or above.
EC-1019 is for students who do NOT have an A-Level in Maths.
Our BSc Economics degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).* *subject to module selections
We have a dedicated in-house Employability team offering additional support.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/artsandhumanities/education/bsc-hons-education-and-psychology:
Our Education and Psychology degree will give you expert scientific training in the relationship between the mind, brain, and behaviour, together with an excellent grounding in education policy, child development, and educational neuroscience.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of educational practice in a digital age, education in national and international contexts, leadership and management, and diversity and wellbeing in education.
You will learn about the psychological and neuro-scientific processes that underpin activities such as thinking, reasoning, memory and language, developing a solid foundation in cognitive, social, developmental, clinical, and biological psychology.
Education at Swansea is ranked:
The Psychology element of the degree is validated by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and, providing you achieve at least a 2:2 in your degree, you will be eligible for Graduate Membership of the BPS and for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC), the first step to becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
You can choose to study Education and Psychology as a 3-year BSc or a 4-year BSc that includes a Year Abroad.
On both programmes, our flexible degree structure with an extensive range of final year optional modules gives you the scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions for post-graduate study.
Work placements in schools, local authorities, business, or charities will enhance your career prospects and build your experience and interpersonal skills.
If you choose to undertake the 4-year BSc with a Year Abroad, you will have the exciting opportunity to spend a year immersing yourself in a new culture at one of our international partner institutions.
During this year, you will have space to grow while developing your independence, international experience and intercultural communication skills that can all serve you well in your future career.
The typical starting salary for an NHS trainee clinical psychologist is £25,783.
As your career progresses you could earn between £47,088 and £81,000 or higher.
There are many rewarding careers that build on the combined disciplines of psychology and education, including prison education, the education of looked after children, lifelong learning, special educational needs, and community education.
Graduates have also pursued careers in education, teaching English as a foreign language, government and local authorities, research, health and social care, management, and marketing.
Your first year will introduce you to key principles in educational theory and policy, together with statistics and research methods, and aspects of biological, social, and developmental psychology.
In your second and third years, you can choose from an extensive range of education and psychology options alongside compulsory core modules.
NOTE : Students are required to select one of the following optional modules
NOTE : Students are required to select one of the following optional Education modules.
NOTE : Students are required to select two of the following optional Education modules.
NOTE : Choose Exactly 20 credits from the following modules
NOTE : Students are required to select two of the following optional Education modules
NOTE : Choose Exactly 20 credits from the following Modules
You will be assessed through a combination of unseen examinations (multiple choice, short- and long-questions) and coursework, including: essays, presentations (poster and oral), written reports, blogs, personalised learning records, case formulations, research proposals, video blogs, and research reports.
You will also have the opportunity to complete an independent research project in the final year linking Education and Psychology.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/artsandhumanities/education/ba-education-and-welsh-a-pathway-for-second-language-students:
Our BA (Hons) Education with Welsh is a forward-looking, research-led, three-year degree which will give you the range of knowledge and skills needed for an exciting and rewarding career in this field.
It is a fast-growing area of study that draws on the disciplines of the Welsh language, Welsh language rights, multiculturism and language and society and literature as well as psychology, philosophy, history and the social sciences focusing on understanding how people learn and how structures of education operate to foster life-long learning and personal development.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula.
You will also have the opportunity to:
This is a flexible degree offering a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
You will have the opportunity to undertake work placements that will enhance your student experience and your career prospects.
You will learn from innovative experts who have strong national and international links and who have excellent reputations for the quality or their teaching and research.
Emphasis is placed on you developing your individual skills and on providing you with high quality support.
Our Education graduates enter careers including:
You will need an additional Initial Teacher Education (ITE) or Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) qualification to become a teacher.
In your first year you will study areas that include contemporary education, problems and issues, introduction to learning and teaching and education across the lifespan.
You will also be immersed in the Welsh language in order to develop your spoken and written skills and to help you gain a firm grasp of the basics of Welsh grammar.
In the following two years you will cover a wide range of subjects including childhood studies; leading and managing in education; difference and diversity in education and education practice in a digital age.
You will also be able to choose from a number of Welsh modules, including language rights, multiculturalism, Welsh in the new curriculum for Wales and Welsh literature and poetry.
You will complete an independent research-based dissertation in the final year, developing the knowledge and skills to become a confident practitioner in your chosen career.
NOTE : Select 20 credits from the list below noting that an equal number of credits must be taken in Education and Welsh over the full year:
NOTE : Dewiswch un o’r modiwlau canlynol / Choose one of the following modules
NOTE : Select 40 credits from the list below noting that an equal number of credits must be taken in Education and Welsh over the full year:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/education-childhood-studies/ba-education-welsh:
You will learn from innovative experts who have strong national and international links and who have excellent reputations for the quality or their teaching and research
In your first year you will study areas that include contemporary education, problems and issues; introduction to learning and teaching and education across the lifespan.
In the following two years you will cover a wide range of subjects in the Welsh language including childhood studies; leading and managing in education; difference and diversity in education and education practice in a digital age.
NOTE : Please choose 40 credits from the following options:
NOTE : Dewiswch 2 fodiwl / Choose 2 modules

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/education-childhood-studies/ba-education-foundation-year:
Education is a fast-growing area of study that draws on the disciplines of psychology, philosophy, history and the social sciences focusing on understanding how people learn and how structures of education operate to foster life-long learning and personal development.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, you will have the opportunity to:
Education with a Foundation Year at Swansea is a flexible degree offering a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
Our graduates enter careers including:
In the following three years you will study areas that include contemporary education; the origin and theory of educational research and education in other countries; child development; protecting and promoting wellbeing in education; educational neuroscience and difference and diversity in education.
NOTE : Select 20 credits from the list below:
NOTE : Select 40 credits from the list below:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/artsandhumanities/education/ba-hons-education:
Our BA (Hons) Education is a forward-looking, research-led, three-year course which will give you the range of knowledge and skills needed for an exciting and rewarding career in this field.
It is a fast-growing area of study that draws on the disciplines of psychology, philosophy, history and the social sciences focusing on understanding how people learn and how structures of education operate to foster life-long learning and personal development.
Learn from exceptionally qualified lecturers who have a broad range of knowledge and expertise in different aspects of Education.
Your lecturers will help you develop academic and research skills as well as a range of employability skills, all of which will be valued by employers.
Education at Swansea is a flexible degree offering a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
In your first year you will study areas that include contemporary education; the origin and theory of educational research and education in other countries.
In the following two years you will cover a wide range of areas including child development; protecting and promoting wellbeing in education; educational neuroscience and difference and diversity in education.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-egyptology-ancient-history-foundation-year:
Egyptology and Ancient History with a Foundation Year covers the study of Ancient Egyptian language, literature, history and culture.
Studying this four-year BA degree opens up a range of exciting career possibilities by helping you to develop transferable skills, which are highly valued by employers.
You will explore Egyptian art and architecture, ancient Egyptian history and civilisation, archaeology, religion, sex and gender, Ancient and Middle Egypt; Greek and Roman history and society; warfare and empire; and learn a Greek, Latin or Egyptian language.
Following successful completion of the Foundation Year, you will progress onto Year 1 of the BA.
You will also have the option of spending a semester abroad during the second year in either the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore to enhance your student experience and career prospects.
Swansea University is proud to be home to the Egypt Centre, which houses over 5,000 archaeological objects from the Wellcome Collection of Egyptian antiquities.
You can gain teaching experience by leading workshops for the South West Wales Reaching Wider Partnership to enhance your student experience and career prospects or teach beginners Hieroglyphs to members of the local community during the summer.
All Egyptology and Ancient History students work directly with artefacts in the Egypt Centre, and you can tailor your degree to suit your interests, for example, focusing on Language, Art, Religion or Archaeology.
Our interdisciplinary approach means you can make connections with a range of subject areas – from music to politics.
You can enhance your knowledge and career prospects and take the Egyptian Collection Practicum module, a four-week session providing practical experience for students on site and have the option of studying a Dissertation or a Museum project at the University’s Egypt Centre.
You will have an personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and the Society of Ancient Studies organises social and cultural events.
Students on this course typically develop excellent oral and writing skills and you will learn to present your ideas in a range of formats, along with strong research, analytical and problem-solving skills.
You’ll study four compulsory modules and two optional modules, with topics including Greek, Latin, Gods and Heroes, Ancient Philosophy and Rhetoric and a Field Trip.
Year 3 includes two compulsory and four optional modules, with topics typically including Egyptian Archaeology, Egyptian Art and Architecture, Archaic Greece, Gender in the Roman World, and a Schools Work Placement, teaching ancient history and languages.
Your degree with culminate in year 4, with a wide range of optional modules that can include The Archaeology of Ancient Nubia, advanced levels of Greek or Latin, Pompeii and the Cities of Vesuvius, and a compulsory Classics, Ancient History and Egyptology Dissertation.
NOTE : Select ONE module from EACH teaching block.
NOTE : Select at least TWO and normally THREE of these modules.
Overall students must not exceed 60cr (three modules) in any one teaching block
NOTE : Select at least TWO and normally THREE of these modules, one of which must have a CLH code.
TO enrol in a TB2 Latin or Greek module you should normally enrol in the corresponding TB1 module.
Staff can advise on the appropriate level of Latin or Greek upon request.
Overall students must not exceed 60 credits in any one teaching block
NOTE : Students may choose a maximum of 20 credits from the following modules to count towards the Ancient History side of the degree.
Students must not exceed 60 credits (three modules) in any one teaching block.
NOTE : You should normally select one of these CLE modules if your dissertation is on an Egyptology topic or both modules if it is not.
In total students need two modules per semester from this or the boxes below, alongside the dissertation
NOTE : You should normally select one of these modules if your dissertation is on an Ancient History topic; one or two if your dissertation is on a topic which bridges Egyptology and Ancient History; or two or three if your dissertation is on an Egyptology topic.
NOTE : You may, but do not need to, select one or two modules from this list to complete a total of 120 credits.
In total students need two modules per semester alongside the dissertation
We have a personal tutoring system where you will be allocated a personal tutor.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/classics-ancient-history-egyptology/ba-egyptology-ancient-history:
Ancient Egypt, with its pharaohs, grand monuments, and hieroglyphs, has fascinated people for thousands of years.
Here at Swansea you can study its great sweep of history and compelling cultural practices in their context within Africa, the Levant, and the Graeco-Roman Mediterranean.
Our three-year degree is founded on object-based learning, offering you hands-on experience with the artefacts in our in-house museum, the Egypt Centre .
You also have the option to learn the ancient Egyptian language and writing system, as a gateway to exploring their surviving texts for yourself.
You will be equipped to understand how Egyptian society developed over millennia, from the neolithic to the time when the Nile valley was conquered by Persians, Greeks, and Romans.
You have options to study Egyptology and Ancient History with a semester abroad during your second year, or to spend a full year abroad after your second year.
We have contacts with universities in Australia, North America, Asia, and Europe.
We are committed to teaching you how to understand historical landscapes.
Our optional first-year heritage module allows you to understand the past in its place on sites around Swansea and South Wales.
We also have a study trip module which affords you the chance (whenever circumstances allow) to visit ancient sites overseas, for example in Greece or Italy.
You are also able to gain valuable experience and understanding of the museum industry and heritage practices, through a range of placements, or by undertaking a full year in industry, allowing you to gain valuable workplace experience ready for your career.
As well as modules where you work with objects from the Egypt Centre, we have the Egyptian Collection Practicum, a third-year module which offers two weeks of intensive work experience in the museum.
You can also get involved by participating in such initiatives as the Swansea University Pottery Project, which aims to catalogue all ceramic fragments in the collection.
There is also the opportunity to volunteer at the Egypt Centre, which boasts an international scholarly network with frequent seminars, short courses, and a school programme.
If you are considering teaching as a career, or would just like to see what teaching in a school might be like, you can gain valuable experience with our Schools Placement module.
This module allows you to instruct pupils in local schools in the culture of the classical world, for credit.
We foster such links in part via the Welsh Classics Hwb which aims to produce resources for teaching Latin and the ancient world in schools.
Throughout your Egyptology and Ancient History degree, you will each have a personal tutor from among the teaching staff to lend academic support.
Assessments in this course offer you a wide range of opportunities to demonstrate your newfound understanding of the ancient world.
You may be asked to compile an ‘object life cycle’, where you will set out how particular specimens were created and then made their way from their point of origin to their current location, or design a plan for the exhibition of a particular group of artefacts.
Our assignments also help you develop your experience in communicating your knowledge in various ways, for example in presentations, blogposts, or creative assignments.
Students of Egyptology and Ancient History typically develop excellent presentation and writing skills, related to research, analysis, and problem solving.
During your first year, you’ll study four compulsory modules and two optional modules, with topics including Greek, Latin, Gods and Heroes, Ancient Philosophy and Rhetoric and a Field Trip.
Year 2 includes two compulsory and four optional modules, with topics typically including Egyptian Archaeology, Egyptian Art and Architecture, Archaic Greece, Gender in the Roman World, and a Schools Work Placement, teaching ancient history and languages.
Your degree with culminate in year 3, with a wide range of optional modules that can include The Archaeology of Ancient Nubia, advanced levels of Greek or Latin, Pompeii and the Cities of Vesuvius, and a compulsory Classics, Ancient History and Ehyptology Dissertation.
If you choose to study a Year Abroad or Year in Industry, these will take place between the 2 nd and 3 rd years of study, making your degree 4 years total.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/electrical-engineering/beng-electrical-engineering-foundation-year:
From the world wide web and global mobile phone networks, to digital music players and renewable energy sources, this subject shapes the everyday world around us.
Highly skilled Electronic and Electrical Engineering graduates are in high demand and have opportunities to work all over the world.
This degree will train you for a career in electrical, electronic and nanoengineering positions across a wide range of sectors.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of advanced specialist equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider industry.
Graduates of Electronic and Electrical Engineering are set on course for a range of stimulating opportunities.
Swansea graduates in electronic and electrical engineering have become senior executives of multinational companies, progressing to organisations such as the Ministry of Defence , Jaguar Land Rover and Babcock International .
The BEng in Electronic and Electrical Engineering with a Foundation Year is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
For information about the importance of accreditation visit engc.org.uk/students-apprentices-graduates.
Their research areas of expertise include Advanced Power Electronics, Renewable Energy, Nanoscale Electronic Materials, Next Generation Communications and much more.
See all the Electrical Engineering staff here .
All software needed for the course is available on the Engineering network, for use within our PC rooms at Swansea University and in some instances installable on the students own equipment.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/electrical-engineering/beng-electronic-and-electrical-engineering:
From the World Wide Web and global mobile phone networks to laptop computers, electric vehicles, and renewable energy sources, Electronic and Electrical Engineering shapes the everyday world around us.
You will develop analytical abilities whilst gaining hands-on experience with advanced specialist equipment, establishing skills which are vital for employment in the industry.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H604) ,in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently £22k on average for our students.
Support and guidance are provided to help secure your placement.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H603) at a partner university, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
At Swansea we pride ourselves in offering teaching and academic research that are vital to the electronic and electrical engineering industry, and keep up with this fast-paced and evolving field, including:
Our state-of-the-art facilities inform much of our teaching and research.
You can gain practical experience working with specialist and industry-standard measuring equipment, microcontroller boards, digital oscilloscopes, soldering stations, signal generators and engineering software.
You will become familiar with several laboratories, from our electronic/electrical teaching laboratory and the PCB fabrication facility, to multi-million-pound facilities including:
You'll work in a thriving research environment where internationally renowned research is undertaken in our three flagship areas of Semiconductors and Nanotechnology, Energy and Power Engineering, and Communications, Systems and Software.
Our graduates are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities including:
Electronic and Electrical Engineers are among the highest paid across engineering streams; the mean starting salary for a graduate Electronic Engineer in the UK is £32k.
Many of our graduates go on to rewarding careers at companies such as Tata Steel, Renishaw, Siemens, Babcock, Dyson, GE Power, Ericsson, Ministry of Defence, and Airbus, with some progressing to senior executives of multinational companies such as the Ministry of Defence , Jaguar Land Rover and Babcock International .
You will mostly study a set series of 10-credit modules, culminating in a final year 30-credit research project.
BEng Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Hons) [and variants] is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a masters or doctorate accredited as further learning for CEng to hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration.
For information about the importance of accreditation visit the Engineering Council webpage .
The UK Electronic Skills Foundation (UKESF) is dedicated to promoting recruitment and enhancing representation in the UK’s electronics engineering sector.
They have recently opened applications for the Semiconductor Talent Awards , a fantastic scholarship opportunity specifically for students who have accepted a firm offer at a UKESF partner university, such as Swansea University.
(Semiconductors are integral to electronics and involve how electronic chips function in various applications.
You will learn this in detail during your course.)
Award recipients will benefit from:
Please note that the deadline to apply is 30 June 2025 at 10 PM .
Applying for this award could significantly boost your future career prospects in the electronics sector.
For details of the ward and application process, go to: ukesf.org/semiconductor-talent-award
My degree catapulted me into a graduate engineer role at HORIBA-MIRA, a world-class centre for vehicle engineering, test and development.
The course covered a broad range of topics, building strong foundations on which I could start my career.
Using the knowledge and skills I developed at Swansea University, I quickly became an effective member of the team and regularly work alongside experts in the field.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/electrical-engineering/meng-electronic-and-electrical-engineering:
This degree will train you for a career in electrical, electronic and nano-engineering positions across a wide range of sectors.
The MEng is a four-year integrated degree that goes beyond the BEng , offering advanced technical and leadership skills, deeper specialisation, and a direct pathway to professional accreditation
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H601) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H600) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Our state-of-the-art facilities inform much teaching and research.
You can gain practical experience working with digital oscilloscopes, soldering stations and signal generators.
You will become familiar with a number of laboratories, from our own electronics laboratory and the PCB fabrication facility, to Wolfson Power Electronics and Power Systems laboratory (PEPS), and the Smart City and Antenna lab.
At Swansea you work in and around a thriving research environment.
Internationally renowned research is undertaken in power electronics, telecommunications, nanotechnology and biometrics.
Swansea graduates in Electronic and Electrical Engineering have become senior executives of multinational companies, progressing to organisations such as the Ministry of Defence , Jaguar Land Rover and Babcock International.
Many of our graduates also go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, Tata Steel, Renishaw, Siemens, Babcock, Dyson, GE Power, Ericsson, MOD and Airbus.
NOTE : Choose 20 credits from the options below.
MEng Electronic and Electrical Engineering [and variants] is accredited by Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/electrical-engineering/beng-engineering-with-a-foundation-year:
A deep and specialist understanding of engineering unlocks a world of different opportunities.
At Swansea University there is plenty of choice when it comes to engineering degrees.
You can choose to concentrate your interest in a number of fields from aerospace, civil and chemical engineering, to electrical, materials science, mechanical and medical.
If you do not have typical entry qualifications or are unsure which discipline of engineering is right for you, this foundation year will help you to find out.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of state-of-the-art equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider industry.
We offer Year in Industry plus Year Abroad schemes, enriching our students' experiences and enhancing their employability.
A selection of flexibly structured degree paths means you will have the opportunity to study abroad for a year or work in industry for a year.
Optional modules are commonly offered in the later years of study, helping to closely align the degree with your interests.
A range of high grade state-of-the-art facilities across all our disciplines keeps learning fresh and modern throughout your degree course.
Graduates of Engineering degrees at Swansea are set on course for a range of exciting employment opportunities.
The Engineering Foundation Year is common to all disciplines.
You can easily transfer between Engineering disciplines during the year.
On successful completion of the Foundation Year, you progress to Level 1 of the degree.
Transfer to selected MEng schemes may be possible at the end of Level 2.
See our General Engineering staff:
Dr Michael Togneri
Dr Sam Rolland

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-language-tesol-applied-linguistics/bsc-applied-linguistics-english-language:
Applied Linguistics is an increasingly relevant and influential discipline.
This programme, the first of its kind at undergraduate level, will equip students to conduct language analysis in diverse critical contexts including health care communication, human-machine intelligence, educational reform, language-related policy making, forensic analysis, diagnosing and managing communication disorders, social media communication, and multilingual communities.
Students will scrutinise the structures and sounds of English, examine the internal processes underlying language production and comprehension, and investigate the causes and effects of language choice.
The programme includes training in and experience of working with practitioners and industry partners, and students will have the opportunity to select a particular context for in-depth study and analysis.
Language is a complex phenomenon; by applying statistical, computational, and scientific methods to its study, students will learn how to interrogate language samples and usage in order to extract information that is essential to understanding and addressing real world challenges.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, English including Applied Linguistics and English Language is highly rated by students and employers.
Linguistics at Swansea University is ranked:
English at Swansea University is ranked:
*Based on the average positivity score for question 1-26 in the NSS 2025
Throughout your degree you will have a personal tutor who will provide you with pastoral and academic support.
In addition to the programme work placement opportunities, the Swansea University Work Placement Programmes offer three work place programmes: Week of Work (WOW); Swansea paid Internship Programme (SPIN) and Santander Universities Funded Placements.
The Swansea Employability Academy (SEA) provides a network for linking students with employers, ranging from employer talks and workshops through to student led networking events.
Students on this course will develop excellent oral and writing skills and you will learn to present your ideas in a range of formats, along with strong research, analytical and problem-solving skills.
Our graduates will enter careers in a wide range of sectors including:
In year one, you will cover a foundation in linguistics, explore popular myths and truths about language and how it is represented in the mind.
In year two, you will follow a prescribed programme including sociolinguistics, child language and literacy, working with practitioners, psycholinguistics of language accquistion, discourse analysis, and be trained in using software tools for applied linguistics.
In year three, you will be trained on how to conduct independent research and carry out a research project.
You will also follow modules on forensic linguistics, language in the media, language technology in the AI era and language policy and planning.
NOTE : You must select 20 credits from below.
Please note that ALE108 is a prerequisite for Year 2 module ALE200 Language Teaching in Context .
Students must select three modules per teaching block
NOTE : Select one module from this list.
Depending on the country, students may also have the opportunity to learn another language.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-literature-creative-writing/ba-english-language-literature:
As a student of English Language and Literature, you will discover the complex and fascinating relationships between literature, politics and history and study language analysis and language use across different contexts.
This three-year degree opens up a range of exciting career possibilities by helping you to develop transferable skills which employers want.
The course covers how we acquire language, how language works, how societies communicate and over a thousand years of literature, from Beowulf to the present day.
You will have the chance to study national and global literature, Renaissance literature, Gothic and genre fiction, 19th century literature, modernity and contemporary fiction, gender and culture, creative and professional writing.
You will have the option of taking the internationally recognised Cambridge Certificate in English Language Teaching to Adults (CELTA) during your second year, further improving your student experience and career prospects.
*Based on the average positivity score for question 1-26 NSS 2025)
You will learn from experienced, established writers whose work has been widely published, broadcast and performed and our academic staff are internationally recognised for their research.
We offer varied and flexible course content, so you can shape your course to your own interests, whether in national and global literature, Renaissance literature, Gothic and genre fiction, 19th century literature, modernity and contemporary fiction, gender and culture, creative and professional writing, language analysis, sociolinguistics, the study of dialects or teaching English as a foreign language.
Wales has a rich lyric tradition and Swansea is the birthplace of Dylan Thomas.
You can get involved with projects with the Dylan Thomas Centre and the National Theatre Wales.
In the second year, you will have the opportunity to take the highly respected CELTA qualification for teachers of English as a foreign language.
You will also have the option of a semester in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
Some of our students have been published in international journals and presented at international conferences.
You will also have a personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you need, and the English Student Society at Swansea organises a range of lively literary, social and cultural events.
Your early studies will introduce you to how to become a successful scholar of English, critical reading, the principles and terminology used in the study and analysis of language and how to write essays.
In your second year, you have the option of taking the internationally recognised CELTA qualification.
Final year modules typically include: dissertation (optional), forensic linguistics, language in the media, language policy and planning, contemporary women's writing and African American literature 1910-1940
NOTE : Select One module from below.
Please note that ALE108 is a prerequisite for the second year module ALE200 Language Teaching in Context.
NOTE : Select at least two modules.
Students must select three modules (in total) per teaching block
NOTE : Select one module to fulfill three modules (in total) from English Literature.
Ensure no more than three modules are selected in any one teaching block.
NOTE : •	Select 3 x 20 credit modules.
•	Modules should be equally split across the teaching blocks.
•	ALE225 is subject to interview prior to module selection.
•	ALE202 has a prerequisite of ALE121 Sound System of English.
•	ALE226 has the prerequisites of ALE100 Grammar and Meaning and ALE123 Language in Mind.
•	ALE250 has a prerequisite of ALE121 Sound System of English.
NOTE : Select at least two modules and a maximum of three modules.
Select at least one module in each teaching block.
Overall students must select three modules per semester and three modules per joint honours subject.
NOTE : Students may select one module from these options if required to make up 60 credits of English Literature for the year.
Students must not exceed 60 credits in total (three modules) in any one teaching block
NOTE : Students must select 60 credits in English Language.
Overall, students should select 60 credits in each joint honours subject and modules should be split equally across both teaching blocks.
ALE316 has a prerequisite of ALE218.
NOTE : Select at least 40 credits .
One dissertation only is permitted.
Students must select 60 credits in each joint honours subject and not exceed 60 credits in any one semester.
NOTE .** please note that acceptance on the English Literature dissertation is subject to the submission of a suitable proposal towards the end of year 2
NOTE : If required, select ONE module to fulfill 60 credits in English Literature.
Students must not select EN-3026 if they have selected EN-3031.
Students must have previously studied a Creative Writing module to select EN-3026.
NOTE : Select One module.
Please note that ALE108 is a prerequisite for second year module ALE200 Language Teaching in Context.
NOTE : Students will have the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner institutions and to experience different cultures, and depending on the country, have the opportunity to learn different languages
NOTE : If required, select ONE module to fulfil 60 credits in English Literature.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-language-tesol-applied-linguistics/ba-english-language-media:
English Language and Media explores creative media practice across a wide range of subjects including, radio and video production, digital and social media, journalism, public relations, branding and marketing.
Studying this three-year degree opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills, which are highly valued by employers.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, English Language and Media is highly rated by students and employers.
Media at Swansea University is ranked:
You will be taught by industry professionals and academic staff who are specialist international researchers, and Guest Speakers will be invited to hold workshops and seminars.
You will have a work placement to enhance your student experience and career prospects.
In year 2, you have the option of taking the internationally recognised Cambridge Certificate in English Language Teaching to Adults (CELTA) , a professional qualification for teachers of English as a foreign language.
Welsh medium modules are available on this course.
*Based on the average positivity score for question 21 - 26 in the NSS 2025.
During the second year, to enhance your student experience and career prospects, you have the option to study a semester abroad in USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
If you prefer to stay closer to home there are plenty of other opportunities, The Swansea University Work Placement Programmes offer three work place programmes: Week of Work (WOW); Swansea paid Internship Programme (SPIN) and Santander Universities Funded Placements.
Our graduates are truly international and are employed not just in the UK but all around the world in a wide range of sectors including:
You will also be introduced to aspects of media communication
NOTE : Select ONE module.
Students must not exceed three modules (60 credits) in any one teaching block.
NOTE : Select two of these modules.
Students may select MS-103 or MSW108 but not both.
Students must not exceed three modules (60 credits) in any one teaching block
NOTE : Select sufficient modules to make up 60 credits (2x20 credits) in Media and Communications when combined with your compulsory module and selection from English Language.
You may choose either MS-229 or MSW229 in TB1.
NOTE : Select 3  modules across teaching block 1 and  2.
These should balance with your other modules.
If you choose MS-311 (Dissertation) you MUST also choose MS-310 Dissertation Preparation.
You can only choose a dissertation in ONE of your joint honours subjects.
If you choose MSW309 you MUST also select MSW312.
You can study MSW312 without taking MSW309.
If you choose the MSW312 or MSW309 you can NOT take MS-323.
NOTE : Select 3  modules across teaching block 1 and 2.
If you choose MS-311 (Dissertation_ you MUST also choose MS-310 Dissertation Preparation.
NOTE : Select two modules to make up 60 credits (2x20 credits) in Media and Communications when combined with your compulsory module and selection from English Language.
NOTE : Select 3 modules across teaching block 1 and 2.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-language-tesol-applied-linguistics/ba-english-language-tesol:
English Language and Teaching of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) degree covers everything you need to know to be able to teach English as a foreign language.
Teaching English is a great way to see the world and will give you a passport to teach in all kinds of environments.
During your three-year degree you’ll learn about theory and practice, language teaching methodology, vocabulary, grammar and meaning, psycholinguistics, first and second language acquisition and discourse analysis.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, English Language and TESOL at Swansea is highly rated by students and employers.
You will have the opportunity to develop programming skills through computer-assisted language learning materials and receive training in research methods including reporting and analysis of data.
*Based on the average positivity score for question 1 - 26 in the NSS 2025.
During the second year of your degree, to enhance your student experience and career prospects, you have the option to study a semester abroad in either USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
You will also learn about language teaching methodologies.
In year 2, you have the option of taking the internationally recognised Cambridge Certificate in English Language Teaching to Adults (CELTA), a professional qualification for teachers of English as a foreign language.
In year 3, you can undertake an independent research project in an area of specialism supported by academic staff.
Some of our students’ work is showcased at our annual conference and published in international journals.
Please note that  ALE123 is a prerequisite for ALE226 Psycholinguistics of Psycholinguistics of Bilingualism.
NOTE : You must select a further 20 credits from below.
Please note you may not exceed 60 credits in any one teaching block.
NOTE : •	Select a minimum of 4 further 20 credit modules from English Language.
You can also take all 6 modules from English Language.
NOTE : •	You may select up to 20 credits from outside Applied Linguistics.
•	You do not have to choose any modules from outside Applied Linguistics.
NOTE : Students selecting the dissertation should choose one module in Teaching block 1 and two modules in teaching block 2.
Students not pursuing a dissertation should select two modules in teaching block 1 and three modules in teaching block 2.
ALE325 has a prerequisite of ALE227 Research Methods and Tools.
ALE316 has a prerequisite of ALE218 Discourse Analysis.
•	ALE204 and ALE225 are subject to interview prior to module selection.
•	You cannot take both ALE204 and ALE225.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-language-tesol-applied-linguistics/ba-english-language-foundation-year:
English Language with a foundation year, explores how language works, and how societies communicate.
Studying this four-year degree opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills, which are highly valued by employers.
Our English Language degree will put you in a great position to succeed in a variety of careers.
Study a degree programme which has been designed to provide concise and balanced coverage of linguistic theory.
You will also have the option to study modules in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL).
You will start the degree in your second year covering topics such as how language is used in everyday communication, how language has developed over time, the effect of dialect and accent on identity, and the challenge of learning or teaching new languages.
There are also lots of opportunities on your doorstep too; The Swansea University Work Placement Programmes offer three work place programmes: Week of Work (WOW); Swansea paid Internship Programme (SPIN) and Santander Universities Funded Placements.
NOTE : You must select 40 credits from below.
Please note that ALE108 is a prerequisite for Year 2 module ALE200 Language Teaching in Context  &   ALE123 is a prerequisite for ALE226 Psycholinguistics of Psycholinguistics of Bilingualism.
Select three modules per teaching block
Choose Minimum Of 100 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Select a minimum of 5 x 20 credit modules from English Language.
Modules should be equally split across the teaching blocks.
ALE225 is subject to interview prior to module selection.
ALE202 has a prerequisite of ALE121 Sound System of English.
ALE226 has the prerequisites of ALE100 Grammar and Meaning and ALE123 Language in Mind.
ALE250 has a prerequisite of ALE121 Sound System of English.
NOTE : Student selecting the dissertation should choose four more modules, two in each teaching block.
Students not pursuing a dissertation should select three modules in each teaching block.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-language-tesol-applied-linguistics/ba-english-language:
English Language explores how language works and how societies communicate.
English at Swansea is ranked:
This programme has been designed to provide concise and balanced coverage of linguistic theory.
During the second year of your degree, to enhance your student experience and career prospects, you have the option to study a semester abroad in USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong and Singapore.
In year one, you will cover a foundation in linguistics, explore popular myths and truths about language, and how it is represented in the mind.
You will then choose a pathway with modules to suit your own interests, before focusing in depth on your chosen research project to produce your final dissertation.
NOTE : •	Select a minimum of 5 x 20 credit modules from English Language.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-literature-creative-writing/ba-english-literature-history:
English Literature and History is a diverse and challenging course which stretches from medieval to modern times.
Explore over a thousand years of literature, from the early medieval era to the present day, while engaging with thought-provoking themes of gender, culture, and society.
This course covers both national and global literary traditions, including the Renaissance, Gothic genres, 19th-century literature, and contemporary fiction.
By delving into these works, you will develop a deeper understanding of literature while gaining transferable skills valued by employers, opening a range of career opportunities.
Alongside literature, a diverse selection of history modules allows you to tailor your studies to your interests.
Topics may include medieval Europe, modern British social history, religion, health and medicine, gender and women’s history, cultural history, the memory of war and conflict, public history and heritage, and the Cold War.
You also have the opportunity for a semester abroad in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore – an exciting and rewarding experience, which will further enhance your student experience and career prospects.
Swansea is the birthplace of Dylan Thomas, widely regarded by many literary scholars as one of the twentieth century's most influential lyrical poets, and amongst the finest of all time.
The university’s links to the legacy of Dylan Thomas remain with our annual Dylan Thomas Prize for Literature and through research carried out in our Centre for Research into the English Literature and Language of Wales (CREW).
Throughout this course you will also have the opportunity to get involved in projects with the Dylan Thomas Centre and the National Theatre Wales.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula;
History at Swansea University is ranked:
You can spend a semester studying abroad in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
You can choose from a wide range of modules in English literature, creative writing and history to shape your course to match your interests.
Topics available can include: national and global literature from Beowulf to the present day, Renaissance literature, Gothic and genre fiction, 19th century literature, contemporary fiction, gender and culture, creative and professional writing as well as modern British social history, the history of religion, health and medicine, gender and women’s history, cultural history, the history and memory of war and conflict, public history and heritage.
Swansea has thriving, student-run societies for both English and History graduates with lively social and cultural events.
You will also have a personal tutor for any pastoral or academic support you may need.
Your early studies will introduce you to topics ranging from medieval Europe and modern British history to critical reading and gender in English literature.
You will then choose your pathway with modules to suit your own interests, before focusing in depth on your chosen research projects.
Year Four modules include: Discovering Old English, Poetry in the Twentieth Century, The Rise of Brazil and Internationalism, War and Peace.
NOTE : Select TWO HIH/HHC coded modules or ONE HIH/HHC coded module and a Modern Language Module.
Students must not exceed 60 credits (3 modules) in any one semester.
To select a language module ending in 160A students must have an A level in that language (grade C or above)
NOTE : Select at least TWO modules.
You may select three modules and not select from the optional box below.
Students must not select more than three modules (60 credits)  in total per teaching block
NOTE : Select one module if required to make up 60 credits (three modules) in English Literature.
Students must not exceed a total of three modules in any one teaching block
Overall students must select 60 credits in each joint honours subject, and not exceed 60 credits per semester.
NOTE : Students may (but do not have to) choose one module to make up 60 credits of English Literature for the year.
Do not select more than three modules in total in any one semester.
NOTE : A dissertation is not required for this degree but may be taken in either subject.
** please note that acceptance on the English Literature dissertation is subject to the submission of a suitable proposal towards the end of year 2.
Students who do not select a History dissertation, MUST take a special subject module
NOTE : If you have selected a dissertation in English Literature select one module.
If you have selected a History dissertation or no dissertation select at least two modules, or three and do not select from the optional creative writing modules box below.
Students must select 60 credits in each joint honours subject.
NOTE : If you have selected the English Literature or No dissertation you MUST select one module from these Special Subjects.
If you have selected the History dissertation you may select one module from this box OR the box below.
Credits must be balanced with students selecting either three modules in each semester (and no dissertation) or two modules in each semester alongside their dissertation.
NOTE : If you have selected the English Literature dissertation or no Dissertation you must select two modules, one  of which must start with a HIH code (together with a special subject from the box above).
If you have selected a History dissertation you may select one module if required to make up 60 credits in History
To select a language module ending in 160A students must have an A level in that language (at grace C or above)
NOTE : If you have selected the English Literature dissertation or no dissertation you MUST select one module from these Special Subjects.
NOTE : If you have selected the English Literature dissertation or no Dissertation you must select two modules, one of which must have a HIH code (together with a special subject from the box above).
If you have selected a History dissertation you may select one module if required to make up 60 credits in History.
NOTE : Seldct at least TWO modules.
NOTE : If you have selected the English Literature dissertation or no Dissertation you must select two modules, one of which must be HIH coded (together with a special subject from the box above).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-literature-creative-writing/ba-english-literature-creative-writing-foundation-year:
On our English and Creative Writing degree you will learn a range of writing skills to equip you for a career as a writer, including novels, plays, poetry, film scripts, and non-fiction.
The foundation year gives you an exciting introduction to higher education, exploring the humanities and social sciences before progressing to the full degree programme.
It’s ideal if you need a little more support after further education or if you are returning to education after a gap.
You will explore a range of styles and genres, as well as studying the history, traditions and theory of English Literature.
You will be taught by experienced writers whose works have been widely published, broadcast and performed, as well as academic staff internationally recognised for their research.
You can also spend a semester studying in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore.
Swansea is the birthplace of Dylan Thomas, one of the 20th century's most influential lyrical poets, and you will have the opportunity to be involved with projects with the Dylan Thomas Centre and the National Theatre Wales.
You will also have the option of a semester in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore, further improving your student experience and career prospects.
During your foundation year, you will explore what it means to be human – studying a range of humanities and social science topics to introduce you to university-level study.
You will start the degree course in your second year, when you can tailor your degree to your own interests, learning how to write novels, write for the stage, screen and broadcast, write short stories and non-fiction, write poetry, writing as a career and exploring styles and genres.
The English with Creative Writing course also allows you to explore a variety of English Literature topics including gothic and genre fiction, gender and culture, renaissance literature, national and global literatures, and contemporary writing.
Teaching is through creative writing workshops and you will have the chance to pursue a personal project in an area that especially interests you.
You will be taught by experienced writers with established reputations whose works have been widely published, broadcast and performed and by academic staff internationally recognised for their research.
You will also have a personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and the English Student Society at Swansea organises a range of literary, social and cultural events.
In your first (foundation) year, you will explore what it means to be human – studying a range of humanities and social science topics to prepare you for the degree itself.
When you move on to the degree, your early studies will introduce you to English Literature, as well as writing styles and genres.
You will then choose your pathway with modules to suit your own interests.
In your final year, you have the opportunity to focus in depth on your chosen research project to produce your final dissertation.
NOTE : Select one module from the below
NOTE : Select three modules
You may select three modules and not make a selection from the box below.
Do not select more than three modules in total in one teaching block.
NOTE : If required select one module to complete your six modules for the year.
Do not select more than three modules in any one teaching block.
To select ALE218  students must have completed ALE121 in Year 1.
NOTE : Select  60 credits.
(3 modules)
NOTE : Select 60 credits (3 modules) ensuring that, with the compulsory selective box above, you have selected no more than 60 credits (three modules) per teaching block or if selecting the English Literature dissertation, two modules per teaching block alongside it.
Students must not select EN-3031 and EN-3026.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-literature-creative-writing/ba-english-literature-creative-writing:
You will be taught by experienced writers whose works have been widely published, broadcast and performed, as well as academic staff internationally recognized for their research.
You can tailor your degree to your own interests, learning how to write novels, write for the stage, screen and broadcast, write short stories and non-fiction, write poetry, writing as a career and exploring styles and genres.
You will be taught by experienced writers with established reputations whose works have been widely published, broadcast and performed and by academic staff internationally recognized for their research.
You will also have an personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and the English Student Society at Swansea organises a range of literary, social and cultural events.
Your early studies will introduce you to English literature, as well as writing styles and genres.
NOTE : Select  60 credits (3 modules)
NOTE : Select 60 credits (3 modules)  ensuring that, with the compulsory selective box above, you have selected no more than 60 credits (three modules) per teaching block or if selecting the English Literature dissertation, two modules per teaching block alongside it.
To select ALE218 students must have completed ALE121 in Year 1.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-literature-creative-writing/ba-english-literature-foundation-year:
English Literature is one of the most diverse, stimulating and challenging disciplines we offer and studying this four-year BA cultivates sensitivity towards language and opens up a range of exciting career possibilities by helping you to develop transferable skills, which are highly valued by employers.
After progression from the foundation year, you will have the chance to explore over a thousand years of literature, from Beowulf to the present day.
Our course covers national and global literature including Renaissance literature, Gothic and genre fiction, 19th century literature and contemporary fiction.
Other topics include gender and culture, creative and professional writing.
You will have the chance to spend a semester studying in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore, further improving your student experience and career prospects.
Our BA (Hons) English Literature with Foundation Year degree will give you an exciting introduction to higher education and is part of a four-year undergraduate integrated degree.
You will learn how to improve your oral and writing skills, investigate and obtain information, present your ideas in a range of formats, solve problems and make informed decisions.
You will start the degree course in your second year and can shape your studies to your interests.
Our varied and flexible course content covers national and global literatures, gender and culture, Renaissance literature, Gothic and genre fiction, 19th century literature through to modernity and contemporary writing as well as creative and professional writing.
When you move on to the degree, your early studies will include how to become a successful scholar of English, critical reading, intertextual revision, how to write essays and an overview of the history of theatre.
NOTE : Select at least two and a maximum of three modules.
In total, students must select no more than three modules per teaching block so need to select one module in TB1 and two modules in TB2.
** Students who wish to pursue a pair of modern language modules in the box below must gain permission from the programme director and select one module from this box (in TB2)
NOTE : If required, select one module ensuring no more than three modules in total have been selected in each teaching block.
** students may select one Modern Language module.
Students who have selected a beginners language in TB1 may take the follow up course in TB2  at the discretion of the Programme Director
NOTE : Students must select at least TWO modules.
Students may select all three modules which would complete their credits in semester two.
Students must not take more than three modules in total in any one teaching block
Students may select all three modules which would complete their credits in semester one.
NOTE : Students may (but do not have to) choose one or two modules to make up 120 credits for the year.
ALE121 must have been completed in Year 1 to pursue ALE218 or ALE250.
NOTE : Select a minimum of 80 credits , and a maximum of 120 credits.
Students must either select three modules in each semester, or the Dissertation module and two modules in each semester.
NOTE: ** please note that acceptance on the English Literature dissertation is subject to the submission of a suitable proposal towards the end of year 2.
NOTE : Select up to 40 credits if required to fulfill 120 credits in total for the year.
One 20 credit module in each semester maximum.
Students must have completed a Creative Writing module if you wish to select EN-3026.
Students MUST NOT select EN-3031 and EN-3026.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/english-literature-creative-writing/ba-english-literature:
English Literature is one of the most diverse and challenging disciplines we offer.
Studying our three-year BA cultivates sensitivity towards language and seeks to answer some provocative questions.
It also opens up a range of exciting career possibilities by helping you to develop transferable skills, which are highly valued by employers.
You will have the chance to explore over a thousand years of literature, from Beowulf to the present day.
Our course covers national and global literature stretching from Renaissance literature, Gothic and genre fiction and 19th century literature through to modernity and contemporary fiction.
Other exciting topics include gender and culture and creative and professional writing.
You will have the chance to spend a semester studying in the USA, Canada, China, Hong Kong or Singapore, further improving your career prospects.
Our academic staff are internationally recognised for their research.
You will learn from experienced, established writers whose work has been widely published, broadcast and performed.
You can choose from a fascinating range of English Literature and creative writing topics to tailor your degree to your interests.
We offer varied and flexible course content, so you can shape your course to your own interests, whether in Gothic and genre fiction, gender and culture, Renaissance literature, national and global literatures, modernity and contemporary writing, 19th century literature, or creative and professional writing.
You can be involved with projects with the Dylan Thomas Centre and the National Theatre Wales.
You will also have a personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and the lively English Student Society at Swansea organises a range of literary, social and cultural events.
Graduating with an internationally recognised degree in English will put you in a great position to succeed in a wide range of careers.
You will develop excellent oral and writing skills, strong research and analytical skills, learn to present your ideas in a range of formats, solve problems, make informed decisions and manage your time and workload effectively.
All this expertise will ensure you can compete successfully in the job market.
Your early studies will introduce you to how to become a successful scholar of English, critical reading, intertextual revision, how to write essays and an overview of the history of theatre.
NOTE:  ** please note that acceptance on the English Literature dissertation is subject to the submission of a suitable proposal towards the end of year 2.
.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/bsc-environmental-geoscience:
Explore the Earth’s geographical and geological history and investigate the processes that have shaped the earth for millions of years.
You will study topics like natural hazards, glaciology, and environmental change in order to develop an understanding of how humans have become agents of environmental change.
You will gain skills in technical and scientific subjects such as geology, climate science, glaciology, volcanology and satellite monitoring of environmental change.
Our Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers) accredited BSc in Environmental Geosciences explores topics that overlap with subjects such as geophysics, climatology, meteorology and earth science.
You will focus on the analysis of different physical environments here in the UK and on our international field courses, including coastal, volcanic, island and tectonic environments.
You’ll also spend a week in Germany in your third year, studying ancient volcanic environments.
You’ll have access to specialist labs and field equipment to carry out project work, as well as our field kit ‘library’ where students can borrow waterproofs, boots and outdoor gear.
Environmental Geoscience at Swansea offers:
Our graduates have become Catchment Scientists, Ecologists, Geographical Data Processors, Surveyors, Housing Officers, Meteorologists, Journalists, Government Advisors and Lecturers.
Our students talk about field trips, friendships and more
Our students talk about their experiences and career prospects
Following early compulsory modules including the earth’s changing face, global environmental change and global shifts, you will be able to craft your own personalised path throughout the degree.
You will select from a wide range of optional modules, leading to a dissertation report in your final year.
NOTE : Field Trip Destination Options - 
The field trip destination options are listed below.
You will have the opportunity to apply for your preferred destination after enrolment.
Important:
This section is for administrative use only.
Do not select any modules from this section.
If you do, your selection will be automatically removed.
Choose Exactly 80 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Volcanology GEG363 - cap of 40 students on this scheme and is open to Geoscience and Physical Geography students as a priority.
Only select GEB301 if you have been advised that you have been allocated a space on this module.
Our programmes have been accredited by the Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers).
Accredited degree programmes contain a solid academic foundation in geographical knowledge and skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of the world beyond higher education.
The Geography Department is a team of around 30 academic staff, and in addition, technicians, postdoctoral researchers and PhD students.
In our undergraduate courses, all large-class lectures and small-group tutorials are delivered by academic staff.
This ensures that our staff know our students personally.
You can find out more about the research expertise of our academic staff via Our Geography Staff - Swansea University .
Human Geography and Physical Geographical Sciences were ranked 5th and 10th in the UK respectively for overall positivity in the recent National Student Satisfaction (NSS) Survey 2025*.
This demonstrates the high quality of teaching and care delivered by our staff.
To get to know us, consider visiting one of the university open days !
*Average positivity score across Q1-26 in the NSS 2025 when ranked against universities as featured in The Times Good University Guide.
Our degree schemes in Geography are eligible for the Ysgoloriaeth Cymhelliant scholarships, as we offer 40 credits or more through Welsh at all levels.
Our BSc Geography scheme, with 80 credits available at all levels, is also normally eligible for the Prif Ysgoloriaeth scholarship.
We also welcome students who may wish to study just one or two specific modules through the medium of Welsh.
Level 2 Single Honours:
Level 2 Joint Honours:
Environmental Geoscience is popular because it provides a critical understanding of the modern world.
This understanding can be broadly applied in the world of work, creating a diverse range of employment opportunities for graduates.
Swansea University helps you to prepare for your future career by helping you to find work placements and relevant part-time jobs, offering year in industry options.
In addition, our Geography degree programmes have a bespoke work experience module offered in Year 3 where students can undertake a four-week placement and gain experience as a professional geographer.
All of our Geography courses have modules that involve a field course.
Swansea University is an ideal place to study Geography as we have outstanding locations on our doorstep for both human and physical geography disciplines.
We make the best of our locality by visiting the coastal Gower peninsula, the mountainous Brecon Beacons and looking at the local urban and industrial centres of South Wales.
Past field course destinations have included New York, Berlin, Mallorca, Austria, Borneo and Vancouver.
These trips of a lifetime are a great way to learn about other environments and people, and also to bond and work collaboratively with your fellow students and lecturers.
There is also an opportunity to apply for a place on our field course to Sikkim, in the Indian Himalayas, where you’ll be working with students and staff from our Biosciences department.
Studying Geography at Swansea  will help you to better understand the world around you and will equip you will all the skills needed to move seamlessly into the workplace.
Our Year in Industry degrees will help you hone your employability skills, getting you ready for the wider world of work.
After your year of work you will return to our beautiful beachside campus to complete your studies and graduate with our Year in industry degree, making you more desirable to prospective employers.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/bsc-environmental-science-climate-emergency-with-foundation-year:
Our four-year BSc Environmental Science and the Climate Emergency with a foundation year degree is ideal for students who don't meet the necessary requirements to enter the degree at year one.
You will be given the chance to develop an understanding which is essential to successfully completing the degree.
Upon successful completion of the Foundation Year, you can progress to either the BSc or BA Geography schemes.
Geography at Swansea University attracts students from across the world.
Our department is based on our stunning Singleton Park campus overlooking Swansea Bay.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Professor Tavi Murray , the first woman to be awarded a Polar Medal for outstanding service to polar research; and Professor Adrian Luckman , who earned global media coverage for climate change research into the Larsen C ice shelf collapse.
Our BA and BSc Geography degrees have Royal Geographical Society (with IBG) accreditation.
A flexibly structured degree path which can be customised with a mixture of human and physical geography modules.
Students will  have the opportunity to study abroad for a year or work in industry for a year, either locally, nationally or overseas.
Field courses will take you to the outstanding natural beauty on our doorstep in the Gower Peninsula and further afield to Pembrokeshire and other parts of Wales.
We also offer a residential field course to the Isles of Scilly as a recommended choice, but other destinations like Mallorca, Vancouver or Scotland can also be available if requested.
You will select from a wide range of optional modules, with the chance to mix human and physical geography modules, leading to a dissertation in your final year.
NOTE : BIO331 runs in June 2025.
Our programmes have been accredited by the Royal Geographical Society (with IBG).
We also welcome students who may  wish to study just one or two specific modules through the medium of Welsh.
Geography is a popular subject area because it provides key insights and understanding of the modern world.
This understanding can be broadly applied in the world of work, creating a diverse range of employment opportunities for geography graduates.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/bsc-environmental-science-and-the-climate-emergency:
Our climate and environments are changing at unprecedented and alarming rates.
Now is the time to act boldly to forge effective local and global responses to the planetary crisis and societal emergency.
You will explore the profound interconnections of environmental and social science in class, field and laboratory settings so that your knowledge can be used to help deliver the next generation of adaptations, mitigations and solutions.
This is an exciting degree programme designed to equip students from across the world with the interdisciplinary expertise gained from the range of climate change, geography, ecology, conservation and social justice modules.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics from Geography and Biosciences department including Professor Tavi Murray , Professor Stefan Doerr, Professor Mary Gagen or Professor Rory Wilson .
Our department is based on our stunning Singleton Park campus overlooking Swansea Bay located at the gate of the stunning Gower Peninsula.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, seminars, and discussion groups, supported by practical classes and field courses.
Our Geography degrees at Swansea University are designed so that you have the skills that today's employers are looking for.
Geography graduates have a broad range of career options within sectors which include environmental management, aid and development agencies, conservation and regional and resource planning.
Find out about our Swansea Employability Academy
Professor Mary Gagen , of Swansea University’s Geography Department , measures tree ring data – ‘weather stations across the world’ - to find out what has happened to our climate across the planet over the last few thousand years.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/film-and-visual-culture-undergraduate-courses/film-and-visual-culture-ba:
Our Film and Visual Culture, BA (Hons) is an exciting new interdisciplinary program aimed at students who are interested in exploring a wide spectrum of visual culture and film.
You will have the chance to explore rich media histories and contemporary culture through diverse social media platforms, video gaming, creative media and more.
On modules lead by leading academics and industry professionals, you will learn how to close read and contextualise film and television texts whilst also gaining skills and experience in film production and writing for radio and screen.
Film and Visual Culture, BA (Hons) will give you the practical and intellectual skills you need for an exciting career in the media, marketing, or related fields, as well as key transferable skills which are valued by employers and open up a range of wider career opportunities.
Our course is based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking the beautiful beaches of Swansea Bay and located on the edge of the Gower Peninsula (the UK’s first designated Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty).
We are home to the archive of stage and screen star Richard Burton, and to the Taliesin Arts Centre – an exciting hub for cinema, theatre and the arts.
This undergraduate programme spans a wide range of aspects of visual culture and film, encompassing film theory, the analysis of screen industries, learning about storytelling techniques across different media forms, and key techniques in analysing and close reading a variety of visual texts.
It offers a combination of theory and practice within three pillars: Film, Visual Culture, and Practice.
You will study at least one module from all three pillars at each level of the programme with the flexibility to choose your own specialism.
This will enable you to shape your course to match your career goals as well as developing your own interests.
We also offer a year in industry or work placement which will give you first-hand experience, and you will have the option of studying a year abroad.
You will have a Personal Tutor for any support you need, and there is the opportunity to study some modules through the medium of Welsh.
Anticipated career outcomes range from:
Opportunities for further study at Masters and Research level are also available.
The BA Film and Visual Culture has been specifically designed to take advantage of the portfolio of modules and expertise across multiple disciplines to deliver an undergraduate programme which will embrace a range of aspects of visual culture and film.
You can then choose your pathway with modules to suit your own interests, before focusing in depth on your chosen research projects.
NOTE : Introduction to Film Studies is available through the medium of English or Welsh - please select one
NOTE : Creative Media Platforms is available ether via the medium of English or the medium of Welsh.
Please select one
NOTE : Select one module (20 credits) from:
NOTE : Select 3 modules (60 credits) from:
In total students must select three modules per teaching block.
In total, students must select three modules per teaching block.
In total students must select three module per teaching block.
Students wishing to pursue MS-323 must have taken MS-228 in Year 2
NOTE : Select one from:  In total.
students must select three modules per teaching block

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-finance-foundation-year:
Are you looking for a Finance degree which will give you a competitive edge?
The BSc Finance with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University will do just that.
If you don’t achieve the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Finance course, the BSc Finance with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining the required knowledge and skills in finance before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Finance degree within the School of Management.
If a career as a stockbroker, investment banker or finance analyst excites you or if you see yourself as an actuary, financial manager or data analyst; then this four year degree is the best grounding for the financial career of your choice.
As a finance specialist you will play a fundamental role in the running of a business – big or small.
Finance at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Your first year (the Foundation Year) is taught at The College, located next to the School of Management, and your final three years are taught within the School of Management itself.
The course itself blends theory, empirical evidence and practical application.
You will build a strong financial foundation and develop essential transferable skills allowing you to analyse and critically evaluate real-world financial market issues and concepts.
As well as setting you up for a career as a financial specialist within a business, we also have support services available to help you start your own business.
This is particularly useful for those students wanting to become independent financial analysts, managers or auditors.
The service offers a mentoring route, using a wealth of industry experience.
Whether your target is to work for the world’s biggest banks or broking firms, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and by the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute (CFA) with University Affiliated Program status.* *subject to module selections
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in the financial sector.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-finance-fintech:
Are you looking for a finance degree in a rapidly growing sector?
The BSc Finance (FinTech) degree at Swansea University is for you.
This degree is perfect if you have a dedicated interested in financial fields such as finance technology or programming for finance.
What distinguishes this programme is its integration of real-world data sourced from widely recognised databases such as Refinitiv, FactSet, Obis M&A, and S&P Capital IQ – the very databases industry analysts and researchers rely on.
By blending theory, empirical evidence, and practical application, you will build essential transferable skills, enabling the analysis and critical evaluation of real-world financial issues and concepts.
Over the past decade, the booming FinTech sector has generated a surge in demand for highly specialised skills, leading to the emergence of exciting new job opportunities in this market.
Finance (FinTech) at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
Your Finance (FinTech) experience will benefit from a selection of optional modules in later years of study, allowing you to shape the degree towards your career goals.
Teaching at Swansea is research led, and our staff have hands-on experience of theory and practice, meaning you can benefit from their academic expertise and real-world know-how.
During your time with us, you will have full access to our Finance Lab, which offers rich real-world data sourced from Refinitiv, FactSet, Obis M&A, S&P Capital IQ, and other leading databases commonly used by industry analysts and researchers.
This is particularly useful for those students wanting to become independent financial analysts, managers, or entrepreneur.
As a Finance (FinTech) graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at any desirable organisation.
Whatever financial organisations you target after graduating, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
With our common first year, early studies give you a solid foundation in accounting, finance, data analysis, and programming.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise are linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a career in the accountancy sector.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-finance:
Are you looking for a finance degree to give you a competitive edge?
The BSc Finance degree at Swansea University will do just that.
This degree is perfect if you have a dedicated interest in financial fields such as investment banking or financial trading.
As a finance specialist, you will play a fundamental role in the running of a business - big or small.
Managing budgets and taxes, financial reporting, and completing audits - all are critical in ensuring that a business or organisation runs as effectively and successfully as possible.
Our course is accredited by the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute (CFA) and holds University Affiliation Program status, which signals to students and employers that our curriculum is closely tied to the practice of investment management and is helpful to students preparing for the CFA ® Program exams.
Finance at Swansea is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad or work in industry for a year.
Your Finance experience will benefit from a wide selection of optional modules in later years of study, allowing you to shape the degree towards your career goals.
As well as setting you up for a career as a finance specialist, within a business or organisation, we also have support services available to help you become an entrepreneur and start your own business.
This is particularly useful for those students wanting to become independent financial analysts or financial advisors.
As a Finance graduate from Swansea, you will find yourself in a great position to secure rewarding employment at a wide range of desirable organisations.
Whatever organisations you target after graduating, this degree makes you a strong candidate for employment.
Your future could lie in any of these roles (and many more):
Our BSc Finance degree at Swansea University is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and by the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute (CFA) with University Affiliated Program status.* *subject to module selections

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/electrical-engineering/beng-engineering-foundation-year:
This course offers the opportunity for a Foundation Year, a Year in Industry or a Year Abroad.
If you do not have the required subjects or grades to enrol on BEng General Engineering, you can apply for our BEng General Engineering with a Foundation Year .
On completion of your Foundation Year, you can progress onto BEng Engineering.
There are a range of careers available to graduates with an BEng Engineering degree, including advanced manufacture, robotics, automation engineers, data scientist, software engineering.
Demand for this advanced and integrated skillset continues to grow as technology advances.
The degree is a fantastic launchpad for creating a start-up business and launching innovative smart products.
We’ll develop your entrepreneurial mindset, and if you are interested in commercialising any of your ideas, we’ll give you support to start your own device-led business targeting industrial or home customers.
The BEng General Engineering Foundation Year programme leads on to any of our branches of engineering.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/electrical-engineering/beng-engineering-general:
Engineers are the skilled problem solvers who develop the products and systems in response to the evolving needs of future generations.
Ongoing advances in computing power and the increasing use of integrated systems that link mechanical, electrical and other engineering systems together is creating new industrial sectors that need a sophisticated skillset.
Our BEng Engineering degree is an interdisciplinary General Engineering programme, and you will learn mechatronics, digital design, mechanical design and control systems, equipping you to design and build complex automated systems.
You will develop expertise in robotics, smart manufacture and systems engineering, and learn to apply your new skills to contemporary engineering challenges.
As more industrial and home devices start using sophisticated intelligent systems, people with a general engineering skillset are in increasing demand due to their ability to integrate these different systems.
Watch our course overview video by Dr Mike Clee and Dr Patricia Xavier
If you do not have the required subjects or grades to enrol on BEng Engineering, you can apply for our BEng Engineering with a Foundation Year .
This is a high-tech, highly practical degree with a strong theme of hands-on lab-based design and development.
You might be building your own sun-tracking solar-powered device charger, designing an assistive limb device for rehabilitating patients with weakened muscles, or developing the control system and building and testing a prototype of an autonomous car that can route find and navigate obstacles automatically.
All these tasks require you to integrate knowledge from different sectors, meaning you will find it easy to communicate and work with the tools from a variety of engineering and management professions.
Technological advances must be considered alongside the challenges of climate crisis, social unrest and resource depletion.
You will learn to consider technical requirements alongside ethics, for example, how the control systems you design for a driverless car makes decisions when multiple human lives are at stake in a potential crash, or how automated processes impacts job security for workers.
Change and innovation are permanent features of the mechatronics sector as device power grows.
Therefore, you will also learn about managing and supporting colleagues through change processes, and what organisational conditions optimise for innovation.
Swansea has strong connections with industry, and you will be taught by individuals from companies such as Fujitsu and Siemens who have successfully led technological organisational change.
The first year will introduce you to the fundamentals of engineering analysis, digital design and mechanics, giving you the language and techniques to set you up in your engineering career.
You will have a year long design and build module and a design project to apply what you have learnt to a novel mechatronic system, integrating sensors, control systems and mechanical output to develop an intelligent device.
In the second year, you will apply this skillset to designing medical devices, and develop a greater depth of understanding to develop your own control systems, sensors and actuators, specialising in either the advanced manufacture stream or the people-orientated management module options.
There is also
In the third year, you will learn about manufacturing optimisation techniques, have your own mechatronic research project individually supervised by one of our academics, and work on a group project to design integrated systems in an industry-set design project.
There are options to learn to create virtual worlds, learn data science techniques or further develop advanced manufacturing skills.
As this is a new programme, it is not yet accredited.
We are already working hard to seek accreditation and will keep all students up to date with the progress.
Backdated accreditation will be requested to cover this intake.
Dr Michael Togneri
for those wanting to study Engineering at Swansea University

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/general-practice-nursing-bsc-hons:
Whether you are a newly qualified nurse seeking a career in general practice nursing or an experienced practice nurse seeking to advance your skills and knowledge, this course is for you.
The BSc (Hons)/GradDip General Practice Nursing is a flexible programme that will enable you to manage your continuing professional development around your work and personal life.
Throughout your learning experience you will develop confidence, critical thinking and new skills  that will prepare you for a career as a general practice nurse.
You will be capable of monitoring and improving standards of service through reflection, supervision, mentorship, professional leadership and multidisciplinary teamwork.
Our academic staff are qualified nurses, doctors, and allied health professionals, many of whom are also practicing clinicians, providing an exceptional combination of theoretical rigour, professional insight, and practical expertise.
Our excellent facilities in the College of Human and Health Sciences include a realistic clinical suite so you can put your theoretical knowledge into practice.
Throughout the course you will develop strong partnerships with other professional groups across the health and social care interface, including the voluntary and third sectors.
This course will help you to develop your career as a General Practice Nurse.
See entry NMC registered practioner with 120 credits at Level 5 and preferably 1 years experience in role post qualification.
Your lecturers will be;
Jonathan Thomas
Ginny Chappell
The BSc General Practice Nursing course has a specified number of funded places provided by the Workforce Education and Development Services (HEIW).
To discuss your eligibility for this funding, please contact Jonathan Thomas or Ginny Chappell .
International students will not be eligible for (HEIW) funding and will need to pay a tuition fee.
If you would like to apply please contact the Admissions Office on +44 (0)1792 518531 or chhsadmissions@swansea.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/genetics-with-foundation-year-bsc-hons:
If you’re interested in the study of Genetics and stepping into the exciting and fast-moving field that is making an enormous impact in a range of scientific areas but don’t have the required entry qualifications to join our BSc programme or are a mature student returning to education, our BSc with a Foundation Year is the right course for you.
The foundation year of this four-year course will introduce you to the key concepts and knowledge you need to progress to the BSc in Genetics, following successful completion of the Foundation Year with at least a 60% overall average, students will progress onto Year 1 of the BSc.
Our Genetics degree will give you an in-depth knowledge of these fundamental building blocks of all life on earth.
You will learn techniques for analysing gene expression, protein interactions, DNA structure and damage, image analysis of biomolecules and cells, and advanced computer analytical methods.
You will develop excellent analytical and project management skills and learn how to design experiments and plan work programmes.
With a degree in Genetics, career opportunities are diverse and extensive.
They include:
In the foundation year students will learn the basics of molecular and human biology, cellular biology, data handling, and laboratory practice, giving students the knowledge to successfully progress onto year one of the BSc in Genetics.
Your second year, and year 1 of the full BSc, is made up of modules covering the essential scientific foundations, including evolutionary & molecular genetics, genetic analysis, epigenetics, population genomics and microbiology.
As you progress, you will further develop your knowledge, studying specialised topics including techniques in molecular biology, biostatistics, microbial molecular genetics, molecular evolution, biotechnology and protein engineering, and genetic toxicology.
In your final year, you will complete an independent research project under the guidance of a professional research scientist.
NOTE : Students select 30 credits from the following optional modules.
Genetics students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest genetics research.
Principle teaching staff for the Genetics programme are:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/genetics-bsc-hons:
The study of genetics is an exciting and fast-moving field that is making an enormous impact in a range of scientific areas, including the understanding and treatment of diseases, pharmaceutical development, evolution, and the conservation of biodiversity.
You can choose to study Genetics as a:
Why not consider our BSc Genetics with a Foundation year ?
With a degree in Genetics, career opportunities are diverse and extensive.
You can find more information on our Genetics degrees by visiting our .
Your first year is made up of modules covering the essential scientific foundations, including evolutionary & molecular genetics, genetic analysis, eukaryotic cell biology, and microbiology.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/genetics-msci-hons:
The study of genetics is an exciting and fast-moving field that is making an enormous impact in a range of scientific areas, including the understanding and treatment of many diseases, pharmaceutical development, evolution, and the conservation of biodiversity.
The MSci programme follows our BSc in Genetics course, but offers specialist training in a broad range of laboratory techniques.
You will benefit from access to the Medical School’s state-of-the-art research facilities, including DNA and protein analytical equipment, computer-based image analysers for molecular and cellular studies.
Your first year is made up of compulsory modules covering the essential scientific foundations, including evolutionary & molecular genetics, genetic analysis, eukaryotic cell biology, and microbiology.
Genetics students will be taught by a range of world leading research based at the Medical School, giving students unrivalled access to teaching on latest genetics research at the Medical School.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/bsc-geography-with-foundation-year:
If you do not meet the requirements to enter our three-year degree programmes, then our four-year BSc Geography with a Foundation Year may be for you.
Our foundation programme gives you the chance to develop the skills essential to completing your degree.
Upon successful completion of the Foundation Year, you can progress to either the BSc Geography or BA Geography programmes.
Our Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers) accredited BA Geography programme explores environmental change, globalisation, creative and urban geography and migration on the human geography side.
Whereas, the BSc Geography covers themes which include glaciology, climate and weather science, earth observation, using satellite data to study environmental change, volcanology and earth sciences.
Geography with a Foundation Year at Swansea Offers:
NOTE : If you are planning on progressing onto BA Geography or BA Human Geography, you must select FY012.
If you are planning on progressing onto BSc Geography, BSc Physical Geography, BSc Environmental Science or BSc Environmental Science and the Climate Emergency you must select BIO012
NOTE : GEL121 is a pre-requisite for GEL204 and GEG363
NOTE : GEL204  - there is a prerequisite of taking GEL121 in Year 1 and there is a cap of 40 students.
If you plan to take GEG363 Volcanology in Year 3, you must take GEG204 in Year 2.
If you would like to be added to the waitlist for this module contact quality-scienceengineering@swansea.ac.uk.
You can find out more about the research expertise of our academic staff via Our Geography Staff - Swansea University.
To get to know us, consider visiting one of the university open days!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/ba-geography:
Our three-year BA and BSc Geography degrees at Swansea University follow the same programme.
However, the two different programmes offer a degree title (either Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science) that students who are more interested in either Human or Physical Geography may prefer.
Our Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers) accredited BA Geography programme explores environmental change, globalisation, creative and urban geography, and migration on the human geography side.
Geography at Swansea Offers:
Human Geography at Swansea Offers:
Physical Geography at Swansea offers:
NOTE : Field Trip Destination Options
The field trip destination options are listed below.
Our degree schemes in Geography are eligible for the Coleg Cymraeg Main Scholarship and the Incentive scholarships, as we offer 90 credits or more through Welsh at all levels.
96% of Graduates are in employment and/or other study 15 months after leaving Swansea University.
Further afield, past field course destinations have included New York, Borneo, and Vancouver.
* Travel overseas is conditional on all UK and Overseas travel guidelines.
We will continue to be alert to changing conditions and government guidance with respect to Covid-19*
Places and availability change annually so specific destinations can’t be guaranteed, but previously Geography students have completed their year abroad in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Spain and the USA.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/bsc-geography:
Geography is a popular subject because it provides a critical understanding of the modern world.
Further afield, past field course destinations have included New York, Berlin, Mallorca, Austria, Borneo, and Vancouver.
Find out more at our Go Global pages

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/business-management/bsc-global-business-management-top-up:
Please note: This course is for international students only.
For UK students, see our other business management degrees .
The BSc Global Business Management (Top Up) offers an exciting opportunity for students seeking a dynamic and contemporary education in business and management.
This innovative programme focuses on the in-depth exploration of organisations, their management strategies, and impacts from the ever-evolving external environments, on a global scale.
It is designed for students from a range of backgrounds to learn with, and from, each other.
If you are an international student and you have already undertaken two years of an undergraduate degree in a related discipline or hold an equivalent qualification such as a Higher National Diploma (HND) then you can study this top up course to gain a bachelor’s degree.
Our curriculum emphasises a range of strategic leadership and management perspectives, ensuring that students understand subject matter within the context of the global landscape.
Contemporary issues such as ethics, corporate social responsibility (CSR), sustainability, entrepreneurship, innovation, and digital communication/ marketing are at the core of our teaching.
As well as developing an understanding of academic and professional skills, topics likely to be covered include understanding the importance of project and innovation management in business, developing the skills for effective leadership and implementing strategies to encourage organisational success in different climates.
From the moment you arrive at the School of Management we will work with you to help build your skills and experience to enhance your career prospects.
You may be able to go on a work placement or internship through the Swansea Paid Internship Network (SPIN) or the Week of Work initiative.
All our students benefit from co-location with industry at the innovative Bay Campus.
Our facilities boast dedicated teaching space and study areas, and extensive IT facilities equipped with the latest hardware and specialist software.
There is a need for those in the business world to understand entrepreneurial and creative approaches to business whilst ensuring policies, regulations, and ethics, from a management and marketing standpoint.
Ultimately, this degree provides students with theoretical knowledge relevant to the international world of business together with vocational skills which will enable them to apply their experience to a wide range of business contexts.
As well as preparing students for careers in the global business market, this degree is perfect for those with aspirations to further their education at postgraduate level.
Disclaimer: Module selection options may change
Applicants will typically have studied a Foundation Degree, HND or equivalent, in a subject allied to business and/or management.
Students will be admitted on the basis of recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
English Language Non-native English speakers must achieve 6.0 overall with no component less than 5.5 in IELTS or equivalent tests .
For students who fall short of only the English language requirement we offer a range of pre-sessional training programmes that you may take before starting your degree programme

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/health-and-social-care-bsc-hons:
BSc Health and Social Care – UCAS Code L510
BSc Health and Social Care with a Year in Practice – UCAS Code L511
Our flexible, broad-based degrees in Health and Social Care are the ideal starting point for a range of rewarding careers in a variety of sectors.
You will explore health and social care in a wide range of national and international contexts, covering themes including social policy, public health, epidemiology, psychology, human biology and physiology, law and ethics relating to health, equality, and social justice.
You will gain a clear understanding of the structures and policies underpinning health and social care in the UK and develop excellent communication, research and analytical skills that are highly valued by employers.
As a student at Wales’s largest provider of healthcare education, you will be immersed in a dynamic research and learning environment with many opportunities to build links with students from related disciplines.
This is part of our collaborative approach to health and social care, aimed at improving integration between the sectors and preparing you for a career working across traditional organisational and professional boundaries.
You can choose to study Health and Social Care as a 3-year BSc or a 4-year BSc with Applied Practice.
As part of the 3 year BSc in Health and Social Care, you will undertake modules in professional development and have the option to complete a work placement as part of your degree alongside your academic work.
The 4-year BSc Health and Social Care with Applied Practice offers an additional year in industry to the 3-year Health and Social Care degree.
This additional year will give students the opportunity to experience work in the Health and Social Care services environment, allowing students to build their confidence and gain real-world experience.
As a Health and Social Care graduate, a wealth of careers are open to you in the NHS, social services, the civil service, independent health and social care, and charitable organisations.
You also have many options for further study.
Recent graduates have gone on to postgraduate teaching certificates, Paramedic Science courses, and Master’s level study in Social Work, Health Promotion, Cognitive Neuroscience and Humanitarian Aid.
This is a tightly-structured degree programme in which most modules are compulsory.
You will follow progressive modules covering human anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, ethics, and psychology and sociology in healthcare.
NOTE : Students should select 40 credits from the following list of optional modules.
NOTE : Students should select 2 of the following optional modules
NOTE : Students are required to select 40 credits from the following optional modules
Programme Director:
Dr Sara Jones
Module Leaders
Dee Thyer
Dr Darren Edwards
Dr John Knight
Angela Smith
Julia Parkhouse
Dr Hugh Upton
Dr Catrin Griffiths
James Taylor
Janet Reeves
Kate Jones
Dr Menna Brown
Dr Sophia Komninou
Dr Meshach Aiwerioghene
Dr Alison Hann

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-audiology-bsc-hons:
Our Audiology degree will give you an expert understanding of the science of hearing, balance, and the associated pathological conditions that affect them.
This three-year course combines rigorous academic and theoretical work with the extensive practical clinical experience you need for employment in this growing profession.
You will learn to assess hearing capacity and balance function using the latest diagnostic equipment and software applications in our state-of-the-art clinical and research facilities.
You’ll observe clinics in our Health and Wellbeing Academy, gain experience in commercial settings and go on to build your skills and confidence in clinical work placements at hospitals across Wales.
You will also benefit from a real-life patient setting in our award-winning Health and Wellbeing Academy, an on-site clinic that provides health and wellbeing services for the local community including a private audiology clinic.
The course is accredited by all the major regulatory bodies and we have very strong links with Welsh health boards, opening up hands-on clinical placement opportunities for you across the country.
Swansea University offers Healthcare Sciences degrees across a growing range of specialities, all fully accredited by professional industry bodies.
Many of the academic staff are also practicing clinicians, providing invaluable professional insight and expertise.
If you can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, as well as maintenance funding and a reduced-rate loan from Student Finance.
A clearly structured degree programme with 58 weeks of clinical work placements spread over the three years will give you the skills and qualifications you need to begin your career as an audiologist or a hearing aid dispenser.
The audiology profession has undergone rapid expansion in recent years so as an Audiology graduate you can look forward to a variety of professional and further study opportunities.
The NHS starting salary for audiologists is £28,407, with typical career earnings rising to £50,056.
You can find more information on our Healthcare Science degrees by visiting our Quick Guide.
NOTE : Students who started the programme in an even intake year (e.g.
24/25, 26/27, 28/29, etc) to select the modules on the A occurrence below.
NOTE : Students who started the programme in an uneven intake year (e.g.
25/26, 27/28, 29/30, etc) to select the modules on the B occurrence below.
Accredited by the National School of Healthcare Science, The Registration Council for Clinical Physiologists and approved by the Health and Care Professions Council.
Alice Shadis
Helen Slade
Danielle Fender
If you can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, as well as maintenance funding and a reduced rate loan from Student Finance.
Check out our Interview Tips for more information on what to expect.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-cardiac-physiology-bsc-hons:
Turn your interests in human biology and health and wellbeing into a rewarding and valued career with our degree course in Cardiac Physiology.
You will gain the scientific, clinical, and technical knowledge needed to provide specialised care to people living with or suspected of having cardiac disease.
Studying the anatomy and physiology of the heart, together with the latest diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, you will combine in-depth academic work with practical clinical skills in a range of specialised healthcare settings.
Cardiac Physiology is an exciting and rapidly developing field that requires a high level of responsibility and problem-solving ability.
As a cardiac physiologist, you will be expected to carry out some work that used to be in the remit of doctors and there are many opportunities for specialist role extension as your career progresses.
Our course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare and Science and the Registration Council for Clinical Physiology.
Many of our academic staff are also practising healthcare scientists, providing an unrivalled combination of scientific rigour and professional expertise.
Our excellent facilities include a realistic clinical suite so you can put your theoretical knowledge into practice in an environment that reflects as closely as possible the actual conditions that you will experience when you go on placement.
You will also benefit from a real-life patient setting in our award winning Health and Wellbeing Academy, an on-site clinic that provides health and wellbeing services for the local community in collaboration with the NHS.
Half your course will be taught at our Singleton Park campus on the edge of the beautiful Gower Peninsula and the other half will take place in healthcare settings.
We have very strong links with healthcare providers and Welsh health boards, opening up a wide range of clinical placement opportunities for you.
On graduation, you will be eligible to join the voluntary register with the Registration Council for Clinical Physiologists or the Academy of Healthcare Science and enter the workplace as an independent practitioner.
The NHS starting salary for Cardiac Physiologists is £28,407, rising to £50,056 with the potential to earn more when you complete an additional doctoral qualification.
There are also excellent prospects to work in research, education, management, Her Majesty’s Forces, governmental departments and the private sector.
Amanda Donkin
Emma Rees
Samantha Hopkinson
Darren Coombes
Nikki Williams
Alex Perkins
Charlie Earle
Lois Attewell
Hannah Heard
John Knight
Maria Andrade Sienz
Zubeyde Bayram-Weston
Alice Davies
Joe Purden
Chantal Patel
Yamni Nigam
Faye Morton
Payal Sood
Debbie Rowberry
If you can commit to working in Wales for two years after graduating, you could get your tuition fees covered in full through the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, as well as maintenance funding of up to £4,491 and a reduced rate loan from Student Finance.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-medical-engineering-bsc-hons:
Our BSc Healthcare Science in Medical Engineering will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding and highly skilled career working in the healthcare profession as a medical engineer.
As a practitioner you’ll be undertaking a hands-on role with medical devices, working with a wide range of equipment commonly encountered in the hospital environment.
For example, you may specialise in certain types of equipment such as that used in renal or radiotherapy treatment.
Over three years you will learn about the medical equipment lifecycle, including acceptance testing of new equipment, introduction of equipment and devices into service, advising on the correct use of equipment, addressing patient safety issues and safely disposing of old devices.
You will combine in-depth academic work with practical clinical and technological skills in a range of specialised healthcare settings.
Medical engineering is an exciting and varied role where you’ll use your expertise in electronic or mechanical engineering to undertake these activities and perhaps become involved in modifying or constructing equipment as well.
It is an exciting, continually developing field that requires a high level of responsibility and technical skill.
This programme is a Bachelor of Science (BSc), with a focus on clinical and practical aspects of medical engineering within the NHS.
If you are looking for a Bachelor of Engineering (BEng), which will provide you with training and skills in the design and innovation of tomorrow’s medical technologies based on engineering principles, and a route to becoming a Professional, Chartered Engineer please see our BEng Biomedical Engineering .
Our course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare and Science.
Places are also available if you receive sponsorship from a healthcare employer and in some circumstances; we may accept self-funded places with standard tuition fees if you are able to secure your own work placement.
Half of your course will be taught at our Singleton Park campus on the edge of the beautiful Gower Peninsula and the other half will take place in healthcare settings.
Job prospects are excellent, with nearly 100 per cent of Healthcare Sciences students going on to work in their chosen profession within six months of graduating (Destination of Leavers in HE Study, 2018)
The NHS starting salary for Medical Engineers is around £28,407, rising to £50,056.
There are also many opportunities to work in research, education, management, and the private sector.
As your career progresses, you will have excellent opportunities for advanced practice and further study to Masters and doctoral level.
You can find more information on our Healthcare Science degrees by visiting our
Accredited by the National School of Healthcare and Science
Esso Karan
Meet one of our inspiring students, Jason Bailey, who made the leap from the steel industry to the world of medical engineering.
After years working at Tata Steel, he decided to pursue a new path studying BSc in Healthcare Science, combining hands-on experience with a passion for helping others.
His story shows that it’s never too late to change direction, and that real-world experience can be a powerful foundation for academic success.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-neurophysiology-bsc-hons:
Our BSc in Neurophysiology will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding, highly skilled career working in the healthcare profession, diagnosing and monitoring people with neurological disorders.
You will learn about the function of the nervous system and the conditions that affect it, such as stroke, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, dementia, and nerve and muscle dysfunction.
As you progress, you will develop the understanding and confidence to undertake specialist procedures in neurophysiology, combining your in-depth academic work with practical clinical skills in a range of specialised healthcare settings.
Neurophysiology is an exciting field that requires a high level of responsibility and problem-solving ability.
As a neurophysiologist, you will frequently carry out investigations in dedicated environments or departments, such as intensive care settings and operating theatres, working with patients of all ages.
We are the only university in Wales to offer a BSc in Neurophysiology and our course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare Science.
Many of our academic staff are also practising healthcare scientists and active in research, providing an unrivalled combination of scientific rigour and professional expertise.
There is currently a shortage of neurophysiologists in the UK, so job prospects are excellent.
The NHS starting salary for Neurophysiologists is around £28,407, rising to £50,056.
There are also many opportunities to work in research, education, management, and the private sector; and there are also excellent opportunities for further study to Master’s and doctoral level as your career progresses.
This is a tightly-structured degree programme in which all modules are compulsory.
In your first year, you will focus on the fundamentals of anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, and neurosensory science.
Your second year will incorporate research methods and statistical analysis, together with your first clinical placement.
In your final year, you will refine your studies further, developing a healthcare research project and completing your second clinical placement.
Accredited by the National School of Healthcare Science and The Registration Council for Clinical Physiology.
Sara Davies
Angela Riley

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-nuclear-medicine-bsc-hons:
Our BSc in Nuclear Medicine will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding and highly skilled career working in the healthcare profession as a medical physics technologist/nuclear medicine technologist.
Over three years you will learn about using isotopes and various forms of radiation to diagnose and treat many diseases, including different types of cancers, heart disease, gastrointestinal, endocrine and neurological disorders.
Nuclear Medicine is an exciting, continually developing field that requires a high level of responsibility and technical skill.
As a medical physics technologist, you will be operating, maintaining, and monitoring complex, specialised equipment used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients of all ages.
The NHS starting salary for Medical Physics Technologists is around £28,407, rising to £50,056.
Accredited by the National School of Healthcare and Science.
Andrew Cheetham
Hannah Watkins
Bethan Gittos

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-radiation-physics-bsc-hons:
Our BSc in Radiation Physics will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding and highly-skilled career in the healthcare profession as a radiation physics technologist.
You will learn about the clinical uses of x-rays, radioactive materials, lasers, and ultraviolet radiation in imaging patients, diagnosing and treating disease, and monitoring patients’ response to treatment.
You will also gain a clear understanding of the laws and regulations around the clinical use of radiation and the principles of risk assessment and management.
The structure of our course means that you will combine in-depth academic work with practical skills in a range of specialised healthcare settings.
Radiation Physics is a vital field of medicine requiring a high level of responsibility and technical skill.
As a radiation physics technologist, you will use sophisticated equipment to measure and calculate the doses of radiation received by patients during treatment and by the staff delivering it.
As your career progresses, you will have excellent opportunities for advanced practice and further study to Master's and doctoral level.
We are one of just a handful of universities in the UK offering a BSc in Radiation Physics and the only one in Wales.
The NHS starting salary for Radiation Physics Technologists is around £28,407 rising to £50,056.
On graduation, you will be eligible to apply for membership of the regulatory body, the Institute for Physics and Engineering in Medicine, and enter the workplace as an independent practitioner.
Ceri Leanne Jones

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-radiotherapy-physics-bsc-hons:
Our BSc in Radiotherapy Physics will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding and highly skilled career in the healthcare profession as a dosimetrist in radiotherapy physics.
Over this structured, modular degree, you will learn about using radiotherapy to treat various cancers.
Radiotherapy Physics is a vital field of medicine requiring a high level of responsibility and technical skill.
As a radiotherapy physicist/radiotherapy physics technologist, you will work as part of a team to develop individual treatment plans for people with cancer and be responsible for the precise calibration and use of sophisticated radiotherapy equipment.
Our course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare and Science..
The NHS starting salary for clinical dosimetrists is around £28,407, rising to £50,056.
On graduation, you will be eligible to apply for membership of the regulatory body, the Register of Clinical Technologists, and enter the workplace as an independent practitioner.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-rehab-engineering-part-time:
The part-time Rehabilitation Engineering degree is available to individuals who are employed within NHS health boards and has a focus on clinical and practical aspects of Rehabilitation Engineering within your NHS role.
This part-time course comprises of two levels of study, FHEQ level 5 and 6, and is accessible following completion of a recognised FHEQ level 4 qualification, or equivalent.
The programme will be completed part-time over three years and combines rigorous academic and theoretical work with the extensive practical clinical experience you will need in your employment in this vital profession.
Our BSc in Rehabilitation Engineering will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding and highly skilled career in the healthcare profession as a rehabilitation engineer.
You will learn about the application of engineering principles to develop technological solutions and devices to assist individuals with disabilities and long-term conditions.
Over the three years you will learn about the design, construction and testing of a range of assistive technologies, including wheelchairs, artificial limbs, robotic aids and specialist seating.
Using pressure mapping systems, goniometers, inclinometer, joystick controllers and programmers you will learn to build standard and custom-made devices, as well as learning about their importance towards revolutionising patient care and independence.
You will also benefit from using our bespoke workshops and our new extensive simulation suite which contains a fully equipped Operating Theatre.
The course is accredited by the National School of Healthcare Science (pending).
We have very strong links with Welsh NHS health boards, where you will receive hands-on clinical learning through paid employment.
This part-time degree programme comprises of a blended learning approach, whereby you will be expected to engage with a host of online learning activities and on-campus teaching sessions one day per week.
The programme of study has been developed specifically to complement the clinical learning experience you will receive at your host NHS health board, to give you the skills and qualifications you need to begin your career as a Rehabilitation Engineer.
The NHS starting salary for Rehabilitation Engineers is £28,407- (start of band 5), with typical career earnings rising to £50,056.
Modules
Applicants who sit outside these routes will need to demonstrate equivalent knowledge and clinical skills which maps to level 4 studies and is sufficient for entry to the programme at level 5.
All applicants will need a satisfactory educational reference.
Applicants who meet the entry requirements and selection criteria will be invited to interview, which may take place in person or via telephone/video call.
Our Interview Tips explain more about what to expect.
If you are successful at interview, any offer of a place will be conditional upon a satisfactory DBS/police check or equivalent from your home country as well as an occupational health declaration and assessment prior to starting your studies.
Further details will be provided if you receive an offer.
If you are offered a place you will also need:
All applicants will be required to have a satisfactory enhanced disclosure and barring service (DBS) check and occupational health check.
Any concerns arising from these may be considered at the School of Health and Social Care’s Professional Suitability and Fitness to Practice Panel and may result in admission to the programme being withdrawn.
National School of Health Care Science (pending)
Esso Karan (Programme Director)
Dr Mark Bowtell (Senior Lecturer)
Alan McAlpine (Clinical Learning facilitator)

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-rehabilitation-engineering-bsc-hons:
Rehabilitation engineering is an exciting, challenging and continually evolving field requiring a high level of responsibility and technical skill.
As a rehabilitation engineer, you will work as part of a rehabilitation team including prosthetics and orthotists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, as well as patients and clinics in acute and community services.
The NHS starting salary is £28,407, with typical career earnings rising to £50,056.
Our graduates are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities, working in a variety of healthcare services:
Dr Barry Bardsley; Team lead, Senior Lecturer, Programme Director
Prof Yamni Nigam
Dr Zubeyde Bayram-Weston
Dr John Pratt
Dr Mary Hoptroff
Dr Emma Rees
Sam Hopkinson
Shannon Bennett
Dr Pooya Mahmoodi
Dr Mark Bowtell
Dan Murray
Andy Cheetham
Danni Fender

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/healthcare-science-respiratory-and-sleep-physiology-bsc-hons:
Our BSc in Respiratory and Sleep Physiology will give you the expert training you need to begin a rewarding career working with doctors and other healthcare professionals to diagnose and treat people with respiratory disease and sleep-related breathing disorders.
Studying the structure and functions of the respiratory system, together with the latest diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, you will combine in-depth academic work with practical clinical and technological skills in a range of specialised healthcare settings.
Respiratory and Sleep Physiology is an exciting field that requires a high level of responsibility, accuracy, and problem-solving ability.
As a respiratory and sleep physiologist, you will work with patients of all ages and disabilities, performing a wide range of diagnostic tests and developing treatment plans.
You will also benefit from a real-life patient setting in our award-winning Health and Wellbeing Academy, an on-site clinic that provides health and wellbeing services for the local community in collaboration with the NHS.
On graduation, you will be eligible to join the voluntary register with the Registration Council for Clinical Physiologists and enter the workplace as an independent practitioner.
Within the NHS, the starting salary for Respiratory and Sleep Physiologists is £28,407, rising to £50,056.
Accredited by the National School of Healthcare and Science and The Registration Council for Clinical Physiology.
Respiratory and Sleep Physiology Lecturers
We always offer students an interview as part of the selection process, as we like to get a feel for your motivation and suitability for working with people with respiratory conditions.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/history/ba-history-politics:
Put your fascination with the past to good use by studying History at Swansea University.
You’ll build the skills valued by employers across a range of sectors, while exploring the human condition from the middle ages to the present.
History and Politics explores how historical events directly influence global politics.
You will learn about British and European politics as well as medieval, early modern and modern history, through subjects including women’s history and gender, public history and heritage.
Studying this three-year BA degree course opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills, which are highly valued by employers.
Based at our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our History and Politics course at Swansea University is highly regarded by students and employers.
You’ll be taught by staff with expertise in British, European, and American history, from the middle ages to the modern day, on topics including gender, sexuality, and inequalities; heritage and history in the workplace; medicine, health, and disability; and war, violence, and peace.
You can choose to spend a semester abroad with one of our many partners in Asia or North America.
It will also be possible to study some modules through the medium of Welsh and a range of Welsh language bursaries may be available.
We offer an inclusive, student-focused learning environment and community.
Throughout your course you will have a Personal Tutor to support you in meeting your goals.
The student-led History Society, which organises social events and cultural activities, is one of the many societies you’ll have access to as a Swansea student.
Politics at Swansea is ranked: Top 10 in the UK for Teaching Satisfaction (Guardian University Guide 2025) Top 10 in the UK for Student Experience (Times Good University Guide 2025)
History at Swansea is ranked: Top 15 in the UK for Student Experience (Times Good University Guide 2025)
Studying History develops skills in critical thought, written and verbal communication, problem-solving, and information gathering and analysis.
Our graduates go on to work in a wide range of sectors including:
Your early studies will introduce you to modern British history, politics and the people and ethics, justice and society.
NOTE : Select TWO modules.
Students must select 3 modules from each joint honours subject.
NOTE : Students have the option of selecting the History Dissertation or scrolling down to select the Dissertation in your joint honours subject Politics.
Students should not exceed 60 credits in any one semester
NOTE : Select one module from the list below.
NOTE : Select 40 credits from the list below.
Overall, you must select a balance of 60 credits per teaching block.
If you wish to select POA301 in TB2 you must also select PO-3121 in TB1.
NOTE : Select one of the two dissertation modules listed below.
Joint honours students are only permitted to select a dissertation module in one of their joint honours subjects.
Overall, you must select 60 credits in each teaching block.
NOTE : Select TWO modules one of which must have a HIH code .
NOTE : Select a special subject module.
These modules are capped at 18 students each.
Students MUST NOT exceed 60 credits in any one semester.
Students must not exceed 60 credits (3 modules) in any one semester and must select 3 modules from each joint honours subject.
Students should not exceed 60 credits in any one semester.
NOTE : Select one  module from the list below.
NOTE : Select TWO modules one of which must have a HIH code.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/history/ba-history-foundation-year:
Studying this four-year integrated BA degree course opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills, which are highly valued by employers.
Based at our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our History course at Swansea University is highly regarded by students and employers.
Your early studies will introduce you to modern British history, literature and society in medieval Europe and an introduction to Roman history.
NOTE : Students must  select at least four and can select all five of these modules (and not make a selection from the box below).
Students must not exceed 60 credits (3 modules) in any one semester
NOTE : If required select one module to make up six modules in total, three in each semester.
Note to select a module ending 160A students must have A level or equivalent at grade C or above.
NOTE : Students must take at least one module from Group A and one module from Group B and one module from Group C over the course of the year.
Students must select 60 credits in each teaching block.
Please note it is your responsibility to make sure that the requirements of the Programme have been fulfilled.
NOTE : Select ONE Special Subject from the list below.
Note that each special subject is capped at 18 students.
Overall, students must not exceed 60 credits in any one teaching block
NOTE : Select two optional modules in Semester 1.
At least one of the optional modules selected must have a HIH code.
Students must not select HIH3378 and HIH3378W
NOTE : Select one optional module in Semester 2 ensuring that at least one of your optional modules (either from this or last semester) starts with a HIH code.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/history/ba-history:
In your first year you’ll gain a grounding in the approaches used by historians to understand and explain different aspects of the past across a wide range of periods.
As your studies progress you’ll be able to focus more on the centuries, cultures, and kinds of historical change that interest you most.
If you choose our four-year degree, you’ll spend the year between your second and fourth years abroad, developing your skills and acquiring new experiences in Europe, Asia, or North America.
In your first year, you’ll learn how to study the past at degree level in Making History and apply that knowledge in a range of other history modules.
You can also choose to study modules in language, literature, and other disciplines relevant to the study of History.
In your second year, you can tailor your choice of modules to suit your interests more, while still giving yourself a broad base for your final year of study.
In your final year, you will write a dissertation on a topic you have chosen.
You will also take a ‘Special Subject’, a module which reflects the particular expertise of one of the History staff, and choose from a wide range of other thematic and topical options.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/geography/ba-human-geography:
Explore the geographical relationships between people, societies, cultures, economies, and the environment in our three-year social-science focused BA Human Geography degree.
Our Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers) accredited BA Human Geography programme explores topics that overlap with subjects such as sociology, anthropology, economics, and political science, in seeking to understand the connections between humans, places and spaces, cultures and society.
This degree programme is suitable for students who want to take Geography but without studying Physical Geography topics in detail.
Students who want to include Physical Geography are encouraged to consider the BA Geography programme as well.
NOTE : Cannot select GEC275 with GEG275, GEC276 with GEG276, GEC277 with GEG277 and GEC278 with GEC278 as they are the Welsh and English equivalent of the same module.
Our degree schemes in Geography are eligible for the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Main Scholarship and Incentive Scholarships, as we offer 80 credits or more through Welsh at all levels.
Human Geography proves a popular subject area because it provides key insights and understanding of the modern world.
Further afield, past field course destinations have included New York, Borneo, and Vancouver.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/accounting-finance/bsc-international-business-finance-top-up-degree:
For UK students, see our other business and finance degrees.
The BSc International Business Finance (Top Up Degree) is intended as a flexible programme in the field of finance and business management.
As a one-year top-up degree, this offers core elements from our Business and Finance undergraduate degrees but with bespoke elements specifically tailored for this programme.
The curriculum combines business modules relevant to finance, such as project management, with finance-focused modules like Corporate Finance, and International Investment: Assets; Bonds and Equities.
This structure ensures that international students benefit from studying a comprehensive range of subjects that enhance their cross-cultural understanding and preparation for the global business environment.
The degree is intended for overseas applicants with the equivalent of an HND qualification in their home country, offering a fast-track route to study in the UK and progression to postgraduate studies.
For domestic students from non-traditional academic backgrounds seeking a route into higher education and a means to consolidate their experience and learning, we recommend the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) route granting direct entry to the second or final year of an existing Undergraduate programme.
Ranked Excellence: Swansea’s Business & Management Studies is ranked 78th in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024, reflecting our global reputation for academic excellence.
Real-World Expertise: Learn from world-leading lecturers with extensive experience in both industry and academia, giving you practical insights and a solid academic foundation.
Global Perspective: Join a diverse student body from over 60 different countries, enhancing your international experience and understanding of global financial markets.
State-of-the-Art Facilities: Study in the £22 million School of Management building on the Bay Campus, equipped with cutting-edge technology and resources to support your learning.
Comprehensive Curriculum: The programme covers key areas such as international investments, corporate finance, and project management, preparing you for the complexities of global finance.
Career-Ready Skills: Gain the critical thinking, analytical, and problem-solving skills essential for success in finance roles within multinational companies and global financial institutions.
Pathway to Success: This degree provides a strong foundation for further studies or professional qualifications, offering you opportunities for career advancement or postgraduate study.
The School of Management is accredited by AACSB International, the world’s largest business education association, connecting business schools, businesses and learners to create the next generation of great leaders.
The School of Management is accredited by AACSB International , the world’s largest business education association, connecting business schools, businesses and learners, to create the next generation of great leaders.
This degree emphasises the importance of understanding corporate finance and international investment, while integrating key aspects such as financial analysis and corporate governance.
The curriculum provides a global perspective on how these factors influence business and finance practices, equipping students with the ability to navigate complex financial environments.
Ultimately, this degree provides students with theoretical knowledge and practical skills relevant to the international world of business and finance, enabling them to apply their expertise across a wide range of professional contexts.
As well as preparing students for careers in the international business finance market, this degree is perfect for those with aspirations to further their education at postgraduate level.
Applicants will typically have studied a Foundation Degree, HND or equivalent, in a subject allied to finance and/or accounting or business studies.
For UK students, see our other business management and accounting and finance degrees.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/politics-philosophy-international-relations/ba-international-relations-american-studies:
Studying International Relations and American Studies involves exploring the culture, history and politics of the United States, the most influential country in the world, alongside many aspects of global and regional politics and economics.
You will have the chance to study American history, literature, politics and culture, from colonization to the present, and a range of international relations topics from globalization and global institutions to human rights and political economy.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our International Relations and American Studies degree is highly regarded by employers.
International Relations at Swansea is ranked:
The degree includes the option of studying in the United States for a semester or a year, further enhancing your student experience and career prospects.
You will have the competitive option of undertaking an internship module with the National Assembly for Wales, working closely with an Assembly Member.
We offer varied and flexible course content, so you can shape your American Studies and International Relations degree to your own interests.
Topics include American film, music, race, gender, migration and urbanization, social, economic and military history, terrorism, or civil rights and political protest; globalization and global institutions, development and human rights, international and regional politics, peace and conflict, political economy, security studies and strategic studies.
Your early studies will introduce you to the history, politics, culture and literature of America, as well as international relations and politics.
Students must select a total of 60 credits (3 modules) per semester, and 3 modules in each joint honours subject.
Students must not exceed 60 credits in any one semester, and must pursue 60 credits in each joint honours subject.
NOTE : Select 3x 20 credit modules from this list.
Overall, you must select 60 credits in each teaching block and you must select 60 credits in each of your joint honours subjects.
NOTE : Joint honours students are permitted to select a dissertation in only ONE of their joint honours subjects.
NOTE : If you have opted for the PO-3317 dissertation or PO-3323 you already have your 60cr of International Relations for the year.If you have chosen the American Studies Dissertation select 2x 20 credit modules from this list.
Overall, you must select a balance of 60 credits in each teaching block.
NOTE : If you have selected the American Studies dissertation select one module.
If you have selected the Politics Dissertation/National Assembly for Wales module select  three modules.
Overall you must select 60 credits per teaching block and 60 credits in each of your joint honours subjects.
Students who have selected WS-306,  PO-3316, PO-3325, PO-3333 or PO-3334 towards IR cannot select the module(s) again here.
If you have selected the Politics Dissertation/National Assembly for Wales module select three modules.
Our students have the option of study abroad.
To learn more about study abroad, visit our Go Global webpages .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/artsandhumanities/history/ba-modhistory-ir-lv2c:
International Relations and History explores globalization, human rights, international and regional politics, peace and conflict, political economy, security studies and strategic studies.
You will also cover history through subjects including women’s history and gender, memory of war and conflict, and British social history.
Studying this three-year degree course opens up a range of exciting career opportunities by helping you develop skills, which are highly valued by employers.
Based at our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, our International Relations and History course at Swansea University is highly regarded by students and employers:
Studying International Relations and History at Swansea you can:
Choose a level 3 module The National Assembly for Wales Internship and work one morning a week for a semester at the National Assembly in Cardiff
You’ll be taught by History research and teaching experts who specialize in the medieval, early modern and modern history of the UK, Europe and the world.
You have the option of a semester abroad in your second year.
You can choose to go East and study in Hong Kong, China or Singapore or West and study in North America.
If you prefer to stay closer to home, and want to enhance your student experience and career prospects, The Swansea University Work Placement Programmes offer three work place programmes: Week of Work (WOW); Swansea paid Internship Programme (SPIN) and Santander Universities Funded Placements.
You can also link up with the Swansea Employability Academy (SEA).
It provides a network connecting students with employers.
You can attend talks and workshops as well as student led networking events.
During your three-year International Relations and History course you will have a personal tutor for any pastoral and academic support you may need, and The Society of Ancient Studies and History student society organises social and cultural events.
The degree structure is flexible, offering a wide-range of specialist modules, including international development, politics and democracy, which allow you to tailor your degree to suit your future career goals.
You will be taught by innovative experts who have strong national and international links.
Our graduates are truly international and enter careers in a wide range of sectors including:
Your early studies will introduce you to ancient philosophy and rhetoric, ethics, justice and society.
You will then choose your pathway with modules to suit your own interests before focusing in depth on your chosen research project to produce your final dissertation.
EITHER select two HIH / HHC-coded modules OR select any one HIH / HHC-coded module plus a language module.
Students wishing to select a language module ending in 160A must have an A level in the relevant language (at grade C or above)
NOTE : You should pick one additional optional module from the list below.
This will complete your 60 credits in International Relations, make sure you have a balance of 60 credits per Teaching Block.
NOTE : Select 1 x 20cr module from the below options.
Students must select 60 credits in each joint honours subject and not exceed 60 credits in any one teaching block
NOTE : You must select ONE of the following.
Note: If you select PO-3317 or PO-3323, you must then select a History Special Subject.
NOTE : If you have selected a History dissertation select two 20cr module from the list.
You must select 60cr in each teaching block
NOTE : If you have selected a Politics Dissertation select two modules from this box AND a special subject from the box below to make up your 60 credits of History.
If you have selected a History dissertation select one module from this box OR one special subject from the box below.
NOTE : If you have selected the Politics dissertation you MUST select a special subject module.
If you have select HIH3000, you may select a module from this box or the box above.
Students wishing to select a language module ending in 160A must have an A level in the relevant language at grade C or above)
NOTE : Select 1 x 20cr module .
If you have select HIH3000, you do not need to select a special subject but may complete your 60 credits of History with a special subject if you wish.
Students MUST NOT exceed 60 cr in any one semester
Students choose 0 credits from the following:
To select a language module ending in 160A students must have an A level in that language (grade C or above

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/politics-philosophy-international-relations/international-relations-with-modern-languages-ba:
As technology, transport, and a complex international economy make our world smaller, the value of peaceful and cooperative relationships between nations is increasingly important.
International relations are a vital aspect of citizenship in a global society, and our BA International Relations with Modern Languages degree is one of the most important degree programmes we offer.
This interesting area of study explores globalisation and global institutions, development and human rights, International and regional politics, peace and conflict, political economy, security studies and strategic studies and you will learn how power, institutions and laws affect our day-to-day lives.
You will also study a language at either advanced (post-A level) or beginners’ level - French, Spanish or German - as well as vocational modules in both translation and your language of study for the world of work.
The course can be studied as a three-year course, or you can extend your studies by one year by undertaking a Year Abroad or Year in Industry*.
International Relations at Swansea:
This is a flexible degree offering a wide range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
Our graduates are employed all around the world and enter careers including:
Our students have also gained employment working for organisations such as:
In your first year you are encouraged to study areas that will introduce you to international relations, alongside courses on politics and the people; war and peace in the nuclear age; politics and society; ethics, justice and society as well as your language modules
In year two you will explore areas such as contemporary wars and conflicts; international security, globalisation and anarchy and order, naturally you will also continue with your language studies.
In your third year you will have the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner institutions working as a teaching assistant, increasing your language skills while experiencing a different culture.
In year four you will undertake either an independent research-based dissertation or gain a placement at the Senedd (Welsh Government).
In addition to undertaking your language courses, you will have the opportunity to study more specialised modules in areas such as genocide, terrorism, and global environmental politics – all developing the knowledge and skills to become a research-effective practitioner in the field of international relations.
NOTE : Students select 40 credits of the appropriate language modules, beginners or intermediate (20 credits in each teaching block)
NOTE : Please select one module from the following modules:
NOTE : Please select two of the following modules:
NOTE : Students select 40 credits of Language modules at the appropriate level Advanced or Intermediate
NOTE : Students must take 60 credits in each teaching block.
NOTE : Select 40 credits of appropriate Language modules

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/politics-philosophy-international-relations/ba-international-relations-foundation-year:
International relations are a vital aspect of citizenship in a global society and this four-year BA International Relations degree with a Foundation Year is one of the most important degree programmes we offer.
This interesting area of study explores globalization and global institutions, development and human rights, International and regional politics, peace and conflict, political economy, security studies and strategic studies and you will learn how power, institutions and laws affect our day-to-day lives.
Look behind the headlines to the key players in world politics, exploring important ideas and how can we solve conflict or achieve cooperation.
You will start the International Relations degree in your second year, offering you a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
You will then progress to the degree itself, where your first year will include an introduction to international relations, politics and the people; war and peace in the nuclear age; politics and society; ethics, justice and society.
In the following two years you will cover a wide range of interesting and diverse areas including globalisation; fundamental issues in moral and political philosophy; society and culture; media, gender and sexuality; politics and international development; religion, science and superstition; aftermaths of war; arctic security and parliamentary studies.
You will also explore the CIA and covert action; visions of democracy and contemporary security.
You will complete an independent research-based dissertation in your final year, developing the knowledge and skills to become a research-effective practitioner in the field of international relations.
NOTE : Please select one optional module.
Students MUST have a 60-60 credit balance between semesters.
NOTE : Please select two optional modules.
NOTE : Select ONE or BOTH of these modules
NOTE : If you have selected both modules above, select TWO modules from the list below.
If you have selected only one module above, select THREE modules from the list below.
Students MUST select a 60-60 credit balance between semesters.
NOTE : SELECT either PO-3323 or PO-3317.
Students MUST have a 40-40-40 credit balance between semesters.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-sciences/politics-philosophy-international-relations/ba-international-relations:
International relations are a vital aspect of citizenship in a global society and our three-year BA International Relations degree is one of the most important degree programmes we offer.
4th in the UK for Teaching Satisfaction (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Top 15 in the UK Overall (Guardian University Guide 2025)
International Relations is a flexible degree offering a wide-range of specialist modules that allow you to tailor your future career goals while developing your individual interests.
In your first year you are encouraged to study areas that include politics.
You will also study an introduction to international relations, politics and the people; war and peace in the nuclear age; politics and society; ethics, justice and society.
NOTE : Select ONE or BOTH of these modules.
NOTE : SELECT either PO-3323 or PO-3317 .
NOTE : lease select one optional module.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/media-comms-journalism-pr/ba-journalism-media-communications:
As human beings, we spend more time consuming media than any other activity.
Only sleeping takes up more of our time.
In the digital age, traditional news and media platforms are further supplemented by a huge proliferation of online platforms.
Choice therefore, has never been greater and quality has never been so variable.
In the age of “fake news” for example, the ability to differentiate objective fact from speculative rhetoric has never been more important.
Today’s graduates are not only the consumers of mass information, they are also its curators and creators, and would-be journalists now need to develop their own personal brands within a congested market place.
The programme aim therefore is to equip students with a three way analytical, practical and employability skill set that will enable them to more easily enter into the graduate job market.
The programme will be regularly appraised by an industry panel to ensure that it remains at the cutting edge of what employers and industry requires.
You will have the chance to attend workshops and seminars run by guest speakers as part of the course.
Media and Communication at Swansea is ranked:
We pride ourselves in preparing graduates for careers beyond university.
We are able to do this by using our connections to industry, and our emphasis on the particular interpersonal skills that our industry panel identify as key within their recruitment processes.
We offer a varied and flexible degree, so you can shape your course to match your career goals as well as developing your own interests.
Besides the core theme of journalism that underpins the degree, you can choose topics including creative media practice, radio and video production, digital and social media, public relations including strategy, branding and marketing, media theory, media law and film.
In your third year, you can choose to develop your own specific interests into and academic dissertation or journalistic artefact.
This will incorporate many of the theories and/or skills you have been studying throughout your degree.
You will have a Personal Tutor for any support you need, and there is the chance to study some modules through the medium of Welsh.
Our Media and Communication graduates are truly international and are employed around the world.
They have careers in:
Students will study modules from a suite of pertinent modules including these examples.
MSW106 is taught through the medium of Welsh
NOTE : Select either MS-229 or MSW229
(note: MS-228 is a pre-requisite for pursuing MS-323 Documentary and Fiction Filmmaking in the final year).
NOTE : In addition to the compulsory modules you should select as one twenty credit module in TB1.
You can study MSW312 without taking MSW309 in TB2.
In order to pursue MS-323, students must have taken MS-228 in Year 2.
NOTE : In addition to the compulsory modules you should select one twenty credit module in TB2.
If you choose MSW309 you MUST also select MSW312 in TB1.
If you choose the MSW312 or MSW309 you can NOT take MS-323
If you choose the MSW312 or MSW309 you can NOT take MS-323.In order to pursue MS-323, students must have taken MS-228 in Year 2.
If you study at least 40 credits in Welsh and it is listed as an eligible course on the webpage, you can apply for the Academi Hywel Teifi Scholarship (£300 for 1 year), or the Coleg Cymraeg Incentive Scholarship (£500 per year for 3 years)
You may face additional costs while at university, including (but are not limited to):
Careers and Employability Swansea Employability Academy (SEA) will support you at each stage of your career journey helping you build a bright future.
As well as subject specific support by college teaching staff and your Personal Tutor, the Centre for Academic Success provides courses, workshops and one-to-one support in areas such as:
In addition, if you have a Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD), disability, mental health or medical condition, the Centre for Academic Success have Specialist Tutors to support your learning, working alongside the Disability Office and Wellbeing Service to support all your needs and requirements whilst studying at Swansea University.
Your degree programme may already give you an option to study or work abroad but in addition to this you can also consider an international summer programme.
These programmes are open to all our undergraduate students and include culture and study tours, volunteering programmes and internships across destinations such as China, Zambia, South Korea, Japan, Europe and Canada.
Programmes are typically 2 – 6 weeks long and funding is available.
See our Summer Programmes for further information.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/law-accelerated-jd-pathway:
The LLB Law (Accelerated JD Pathway) is an intensive two-year law degree that is designed specifically for non-law graduates of Canadian universities.
You will study modules from a wide range of subject areas, including: Public Law, Tort Law, Contract Law, Equity and Trusts, Land Law, EU Law in Context, and Canadian Constitutional Law.
The programme fuses academic rigour with the opportunity to develop a range of essential legal skills, enabling you to progress on to the next stage of training to qualify as a lawyer in England, Wales, and Canada.
The degree incorporates the core legal subjects assessed by the Solicitors Qualification Examination, and is accredited by the Bar Standards Board.
Subject to a minimum level of attainment in core modules, the degree is also accredited by the Canadian National Committee on Accreditation (NCA).
The Canadian Constitutional Law module provides excellent preparation for the NCA exam (further information on the NCA accreditation requirements is available on the NCA’s website ).
Based at Swansea University’s School of Law, you will benefit from being part of a lively and diverse research and teaching environment with students at its heart.
As a result, Law at Swansea is ranked:
Throughout the programme, you will learn how the legal system works in England and Wales, and will gain a comprehensive grounding in the core subjects covered by a law degree.
In addition, you will study Canadian Constitutional Law, which provides excellent preparation for the Canadian National Committee on Accreditation examination.
At the School of Law, we offer an inclusive, student-focused learning environment.
Modules are delivered and assessed in a variety of different ways, and you will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning, to work independently as well as with others, to act professionally, and to master new skills.
Throughout your degree, you will also develop excellent research and analytical skills, and will learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
As well as teaching and learning activities, we offer a broad range of additional development opportunities; from research-based placements, to working with clients, and developing advocacy and other skills.
Our award-winning Law Clinic offers you the opportunity to give supervised advice to real-life clients, and we have programmes of extra-curricular mooting , negotiation and interviewing, enabling you to build essential legal skills that will be invaluable for your career.
We aim to equip you with multiple skills to enhance your graduate prospects.
Your course is made up of compulsory modules covering the core areas of a Law degree across both years.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/law-jd-pathway:
Take the first steps towards a range of exciting and rewarding careers in Law with our LLB Law (JD Pathway) Single Honours Degree.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of specialised subject areas of law with a range of optional modules to choose from.
You will have ample opportunity to develop your professional legal skills by taking optional experiential modules in Advocacy, Clinical Legal Education and Negotiations.
The degree incorporates the core legal subjects assessed by the Solicitors Qualification Examination and is accredited by the Bar Standards Board.
Subject to a minimum level of attainment in core modules, the degree is also accredited by the Canadian National Committee on Accreditation (NCA), and the Canadian Constitutional Law module provides excellent preparation for the NCA exam (further information on the NCA accreditation requirements is available on the NCA’s website ).
Our degree structure, with its range of final year optional modules, gives you plenty of scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions.
In addition to this, we also offer a range of professional work placement opportunities in a wide range of settings.
Year 3 consists of the compulsory modules, EU Law in Context and Canadian Connotational Law, alongside a range of optional modules in specialist fields of law.
Throughout your second and third years, you'll get to choose from an extensive list of optional modules , with more information in the options below.
NOTE : Select one module (15 credits) from the following:
NOTE : Select FOUR modules (80 credits) from TB1, T1+2 and TB2, ensure that credits are balanced across all semesters:
This degree is accredited by the Bar Standards Board and the Canadian National Committee on Accreditation (NCA).

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llbseniorstatus:
If you want to study law and already hold a degree in a different discipline from outside the UK, then this two-year Senior Status LLB is for you.
You will learn how the legal and criminal justice systems work in England and Wales and gain a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree.
Alongside the core compulsory modules, you can study optional modules from a wide range of subject areas, including: family law, employment law, cybercrime, competition law, and medical law.
Throughout your senior status degree, you will develop excellent research and analytical skills and learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
We offer a range of work placement opportunities in a wide range of settings.
LLB Law (Senior Status) structure.
Your first year is made up of compulsory modules covering the core areas of a Law degree.
You continue studying these core themes in your second year, together with a number of optional modules.
NOTE : Please select 20 credits from the list below.
It is not a requirement for you to complete LAA339 Dissertation.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-criminology-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law in Practice with Criminology, then this 5-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent way to gain the knowledge and skills needed to begin the LLB Law in Practice with Criminology degree; you will be introduced to key themes in law, as well as being provided with opportunities to pick up new skills that will be of use throughout your undergraduate degree.
The Foundation Year is taught at The College, located on our Bay Campus.
After you complete this year, you will move to the School of Law on Singleton Campus for the remainder of your studies.
This LLB element provides a comprehensive grounding in the foundations of both law and criminology, with a year spent at a paid internship in a legal setting.
You will develop excellent research and analytical skills and learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of specialised areas of law, enabling you to shape your own learning.
Alongside this, you will study key concepts in the field of criminology; the most important theories of crime and deviance, and their relevance to contemporary criminal justice policy, research and practice.
As a student on a Foundation programme, you will benefit from being part of a diverse teaching environment, based in state-of-the-art facilities on our £450m Bay Campus.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate LLB Law in Practice with Criminology degree.
Criminology at Swansea is also ranked:
You will be given the opportunity to pick up essential skills through modules such as Critical Thinking, IT Support, and Composition and Style.
In addition to this, you will be introduced to legal concepts and terminology through a range of teaching themes that include Legal Skills, Contract Law and Criminal Law.
After you’ve continued on to your LLB Law in Practice with Criminology degree, we offer a broad range of experiential learning opportunities for you to put theory into practice during your time spent studying.
Throughout the 5-year programme, we offer an inclusive, student-focussed learning environment and community.
Your first year of study will be your Foundation Year at The College.
This covers a mix of key themes in law, combined with the knowledge and skills needed to be successful in your degree.
On successful completion of your Foundation Year, you will move to the School of Law to complete your LLB degree.
Your second year is made up of compulsory modules covering a range of themes in both Law and Criminology.
In your third year you will again study compulsory modules covering key themes in Law and Criminology, including Criminal Law, Equity and Trusts, and Penology and Punishment
Year 4 (Level S) will be spent at a paid internship in a legal setting.
Year 5 consists entirely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning.
NOTE : Select 80 credits from the list below.
Please ensure that your module selections are balanced across semester 1 and semester 2 (60 credits per semester).
Our law degrees are taught by experts, some of whom are experienced legal practitioners, and all of whom have a wealth of legal knowledge to pass on to our students.
There are student representatives in each year of our law programme as well as a school representative for undergraduate students.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-with-criminology:
Take the first steps towards a range of careers in the legal and criminal justice sectors with the LLB Law in Practice with Criminology.
This 4-year degree programme brings together the study of both Law and Criminology, with your third year spent at a paid internship in a legal setting.
You will also gain a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree.
Alongside this, you will study core concepts in the field of criminology, the most important theories of crime and deviance, and their relevance to contemporary criminal justice policy, research and practice.
If you would like to complete a 3-year LLB without a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law with Criminology course page.
The LLB Law in Practice with Criminology is focused on providing you with both the skills and knowledge that you will need for your career.
Years 1 and 2 will give you a solid foundation in key areas and principles of law and criminology.
You will have the option to choose some of your own modules in year 1, but year 2 is made up entirely of compsulsory modules.
Year 4 consists entirely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning.
NOTE : Please choose exactly 30 credits from the following modules
NOTE : Please choose exactly 30 credits from the following

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-international-relations-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law in Practice with International Relations programme, then this 5-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent way to gain the knowledge and skills needed to begin the LLB Law in Practice with Politics degree; you will be introduced to key themes in law, as well as being provided with opportunities to pick up new skills that will be of use throughout your undergraduate degree.
The programme provides a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of specialised subject areas of law with an extensive list of over forty optional modules to choose from .
Your fourth year will be spent at a paid internship in a legal setting, allowing you to experience legal practice firsthand, and pick up key skills that will be infinitely useful in your future career.
Alongside this, you will learn about the value of peaceful relationships between nations, focusing on themes including globalisation, international politics, peace and conflict, and power strategies.
All of our undergraduate law programmes contain the foundations of legal knowledge needed to enter the legal profession.
Our programmes provide a strong foundation for students who may wish to take the Solicitors Qualifying Examinations (SQE) in the future and satisfy the academic stage of training required by the Bar Standards Board for those wishing to become barristers.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate LLB Law in Practice with International Relations degree.
Based across the Hillary Rodham Clinton School of Law and the School of Social Sciences, you will benefit from being part of two lively and diverse environments that keep students at their heart.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for teaching and research in both law and politics and is consistently recognised as a source of expertise and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields.
We are also wholly committed to continuous improvement in teaching and learning, and to putting students at the centre of our activities.
Modules are delivered and assessed in a variety of ways and you will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning, to work independently as well as with others, to act professionally, and to master new skills.
You will have the competitive option (available for 20 students) of undertaking an internship module with the Senedd Cymru/Welsh Parliament, working closely with a Member of the Senedd (MS) for one day a week.
You will be studying in one of the select departments in the UK to offer the British Parliamentary Studies module, where you will be taught by our specialist academic staff and Members of Parliament, and you will visit the House of Commons.
We offer a variety of additional work placement opportunities in a wide range of settings.
Adding a political viewpoint to your degree also opens doors to careers in:
Years 2 and 3 consist of the core areas of a law degree, with the option to select some of your own modules in year 3.
You will take the internship module (LA-S000) and be assessed throughout the year and receive an overall module mark with feedback for each element.
Year 5 consists entirely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning, with over forty to choose from.
NOTE : Choose exactly 30 credits from the following modules.
Our degrees are taught by experts, some of whom are experienced practitioners, and all of which have a wealth of knowledge to pass on to our students.
You can find out more about our academic expertise on our School of Law and School of Social Sciences staff pages.
Academic Support at the School of Law and School of Social Sciences
Each student is assigned a Personal Tutor in each of the Law and Politics Departments to help with:
At Swansea, we have a range of law and politics-focused societies, which offer opportunities for you to meet fellow students and take part in a variety of activities.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-international-relations:
Our LLB Law in Practice with International Relations offers a law degree with an interesting exploration into the relationships and patterns of behaviour that occur between nations, their leaders and corporations, combined with a year-long professional placement.
Your third year will be spent at a paid internship in a legal setting, allowing you to experience legal practice firsthand, and pick up key skills that will be infinitely useful in your future career.
If you would like to complete a 3-year LLB without a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law with International Relations course page.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for teaching and research in both law and international relations and is consistently recognised as a source of expertise and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields.
The LLB Law in Practice with International Relations is focused on providing you with both the skills and knowledge that you will need for your future career.
Year 4 consists entirely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning, with over thirty to choose from.
Throughout your second and fourth years.
you'll get to choose from an extensive list of over forty optional modules, with more information below.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-politics-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law in Practice with Politics programme, then this 5-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
Alongside this, you will study key aspects of British and international politics, public policy, political theory, philosophy, and  peace and conflict.
You will also have the competitive option of undertaking a work placement module with the Senedd Cymru/Welsh Parliament, working closely with Members of the Senedd.
NOTE : Select 40 credit from the list below:
NOTE : Select 20 credits from:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-politics:
Combine your law degree with an exploration of national and international politics, and a year-long professional placement with our LLB Law in Practice with Politics.
This 4-year programme provides a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree.
If you would like to complete a 3-year LLB without a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law with Politics course page.
The LLB Law in Practice with Politics is focused on providing you with both the skills and knowledge that you will need for your future career.
Lectures will be delivered in English, seminars for the Welsh language option will be delivered in Welsh.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law in Practice, then this 5-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent way to gain the knowledge and skills needed to begin the LLB Law in Practice degree; you will be introduced to key themes in law, as well as being provided with opportunities to pick up new skills that will be of use throughout your undergraduate degree.
The LLB element provides a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree, with a year spent at a paid internship in a legal setting.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate LLB Law in Practice degree.
After you’ve continued on to your LLB Law in Practice degree, we offer a broad range of experiential learning opportunities for you to put theory into practice during your time spent studying.
Your second year is made up of compulsory modules covering a range of themes.
In your third year you will study a mixture of compulsory and optional modules.
NOTE : Please choose 15 credits from the list below:
NOTE : Please select 1 module (15 credits) from the list below:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-practice:
Take the first steps towards your legal career with the LLB Law in Practice.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of specialised areas of law including medicine, human rights, family, the environment, trade, employment, and media; enabling you to shape your own learning.
If you would like to complete a 3-year LLB without a year in practice, please visit our LLB Single Honours course page.
The LLB Law in Practice is focused on providing you with both the skills and knowledge that you will need for your career.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-criminology-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law with Criminology undergraduate programme, then this 4-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent way to gain the knowledge and skills needed to begin the LLB Law with Criminology degree; you will be introduced to key themes in law, as well as being provided with opportunities to pick up new skills that will be of use throughout your undergraduate degree.
After you complete this year, you will move to Singleton Campus for the remainder of your studies.
During the following three years of your undergraduate law degree, you will develop research and analytical skills, learning to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing, while gaining a comprehensive grounding in the foundations of both law and criminology.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of specialised Law modules relating to areas such as: Medicine, Human Rights, Family, the Environment, Trade, Employment, and the Media.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate LLB Law with Criminology degree.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for both law and criminology teaching and research, and is wholly committed to continuous improvement in teaching and learning, and to putting students at the centre of its activities.
After you’ve continued on to your LLB Law with Criminology degree, the School of Law offers a broad range of opportunities for you to get involved with; from research-based placements, to working with clients, and developing advocacy and other skills.
Our thriving Law Clinic offers students the opportunity to get involved in actively giving advice to clients, and we have extra-curricular activities such as mooting , negotiation and interviewing.
We also offer a range of work and study placement opportunities in a wide range of settings, providing experience that can prove useful when embarking on your career.
Throughout the 4-year programme, we offer an inclusive, student-focussed learning environment and community.
Studying a Foundation Year, followed by an LLB Law with Criminology degree, can lead to a range of careers.
On successful completion of your Foundation Year, you will move to Singleton Campus to complete your LLB degree.
Your fourth and final year is made up entirely of optional modules, allowing you to shape your own learning.
Our degrees are taught by experts, some of whom are experienced legal practitioners and all of whom have a wealth of legal knowledge to pass on to our students.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-with-criminology:
This degree brings together Law and Criminology, giving you the opportunity to combine an interest in criminality and criminal policy with in-depth coverage of the law of England and Wales.
The programme is designed to cover foundational subjects in each discipline in the first and second year, allowing you a wide choice of optional study in the final year.
Alongside this, you will study core concepts in the field of criminology, the most important theories of crime and deviance and their relevance to contemporary criminal justice policy, research and practice.
Through your undergraduate Law with Criminology degree you will develop excellent research and analytical skills and learn to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing.
If you would like to complete a 4-year LLB with a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law in Practice with Criminology course page.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for both law and criminology teaching and research.
The School of Law is recognised as a source of expertise and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields of practice.
Our undergraduate Law with Criminology degree structure, with its extensive range of final year optional modules, gives you plenty of scope to tailor your studies to your particular interests, career goals, or ambitions.
LLB Law with Criminology structure.
Your first two years are made up of compulsory modules giving you a solid foundation in key areas and principles of law and criminology.
Year 3 consists entirely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning.
NOTE : Please ensure that your module selections are balanced across semester 1 and semester 2.
NOTE : Please choose exactly 40 credits from the following
NOTE : Please choose exactly 20 credits from the following

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-international-relations-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law with International Relations undergraduate programme, then this 4-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent way to gain the knowledge and skills needed to begin an LLB degree; you will be introduced to key themes in law, as well as being provided with opportunities to pick up new skills that will be of use throughout your undergraduate degree.
During the following three years, you will gain a comprehensive grounding in the core areas covered by a law degree.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate LLB degree.
After you’ve continued on to your LLB Law degree, the School of Law offers a broad range of opportunities for you to get involved with; from research-based placements, to working with clients, to developing advocacy and other skills.
You will also be studying in one of the select departments in the UK to offer the British Parliamentary Studies module, where you will be taught by our specialist academic staff and Members of Parliament, and you will visit the House of Commons.
Adding international relations expertise to your degree also opens doors to careers in:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-international-relations:
Our LLB Law with International Relations offers a law degree with an interesting exploration into the relationships and patterns of behaviour that occur between nations, their leaders and corporations.
Throughout your degree you will develop excellent research and analytical skills, learning to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing, and benefitting from our practice-led approach to law and its relationship with international relations.
If you would like to complete a 4-year LLB with a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law in Practice with International Relations course page.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for teaching and research in both law and international relations, and is consistently recognised as a source of expertise and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields.
Modules are delivered and assessed in a variety of ways, and you will be encouraged to take responsibility for your own learning, to work independently as well as with others, to act professionally, and to master new skills.
You will have the competitive option in semester one (available for 20 students) of undertaking an internship module with the - Senedd Cymru/Welsh Parliament, working closely with a Member of the Senedd (MS) for one day a week.
In addition to this, in your final year you will have the invaluable opportunity to opt for a place on their Placement Scheme.
Year 3 consists entirely of optional modules allowing you to shape your own learning, with over thirty to choose from.
Throughout your second and third years.
NOTE : Select 20 credits from the list below.
Lectures with be delivered in English, seminars for the Welsh language option will be delivered in Welsh
NOTE : Select 20 credits from the following options

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-politics-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law with Politics undergraduate programme, then this 4-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
Throughout your degreeyou will develop excellent research and analytical skills, learning to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing, and benefitting from our practice-led approach to law and its relationship with international relations.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for teaching and research in both law and politics, and is consistently recognised as a source of expertise and as having an impact on policy and practice in a diverse range of fields.
You will also have the competitive option of undertaking a work placement module with the  Senedd Cymru/Welsh Parliament, working closely with  Members of the Senedd.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-politics:
Combine a law degree with an exploration of national and international politics with our LLB Law with Politics degree.
Alongside this, you will study key aspects of British and international politics, public policy, political theory, philosophy, and peace and conflict.
Throughout your degree you will develop excellent research and analytical skills, learning to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing, and benefitting from our practice-led approach to law and its relationship with politics.
If you would like to complete a 4-year LLB with a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law in Practice with Politics course page.
NOTE : Choose Exactly 30 credits from the following modules:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law-foundation-year:
If you don’t attain the grades needed to enrol on to the LLB Law undergraduate programme, then this 4-year programme, including a Foundation Year, could be for you.
The Foundation Year is an excellent way to gain the knowledge and skills needed to begin the LLB Law degree; you will be introduced to key themes in law, as well as being provided with opportunities to pick up new skills that will be of use throughout your undergraduate degree.
During the following three years of your undergraduate law degree, you will develop research and analytical skills, learning to present your ideas effectively both verbally and in writing, while gaining a comprehensive grounding in the foundations of law.
You will spend a year on the Foundation Year, which is entirely focused on getting you ready to undertake your undergraduate LLB Law degree.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for law teaching and research, and is wholly committed to continuous improvement in teaching and learning, and to putting students at the centre of its activities.
After you’ve continued on to your LLB Law degree, the School of Law offers a broad range of opportunities for you to get involved with; from research-based placements, to working with clients, and developing advocacy and other skills.
Studying a Foundation Year, followed by an LLB Law degree, can lead to a range of careers.
NOTE : Choose Exactly 15 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Choose Exactly 60 credits from the following Modules:

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/law/llb-law:
Take the first steps towards a range of exciting and rewarding careers in law with our LLB Law Single Honours degree.
As your studies progress, you can choose from a wide range of specialised subject areas of law relating to medicine, human rights, family, the environment, trade, employment, and media, with an extensive list of over forty optional modules to choose from .
If you would like to complete a 4-year LLB with a year in practice, please visit our LLB Law in Practice course page.
LLB Law module structure.
Throughout your second and thirds years.
NOTE : Please choose 15 credits from the list below.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/biosciences-geography-physics/biosciences/bsc-marine-biology:
An academic understanding of ocean life across the world has never been more important.
Our three-year Marine Biology degree is highly practical and fieldwork based and our unique location gives students easy access to a variety of study habitats including exposed rocky shores, steep cliffs salt marshes and estuarine mudflats.
Marine Biology at Swansea University has a strong reputation and draws students from across the world and is based on our stunning Singleton Park campus overlooking Swansea Bay.
Find out why our students love studying Marine Biology at Swansea
What our students say about our tropical marine field course to Puerto Rico
Find out why our students love studying Bioscience at Swansea
NOTE : Choose exactly 15 credits from TB1 or TB2.
NOTE : You can select a minumin of ONE module, and a maximum of TWO.
NOTE : Marine Biology Recommended

Choose a minimum of 30 credits 

No more than 70 credits can be selected from any one semester.
NOTE : Choose a maximum of 40 credits 

No more than 70 credits can be selected from any one semester.
NOTE : Choose exactly 15 credits
If you are passionate about our planet and the environment and see your future career in the field of biosciences, you will have the opportunity to learn from and work with staff who are involved in world-leading research projects.
These include the conservation of our oceans and their ecosystems, the development of sustainable aquaculture and the innovative uses for algae as a solution to the global challenges of climate change.
Graduates of Marine Biology are set on course for a range of stimulating opportunities.
These are a small number of potential career destinations.
Field Courses
Over the course of this four-year degree you may study these spectacular ecosystems on our doorstep and life off distant lands such as India, Borneo and Puerto Rico.
You will also spend a year abroad.
Your year spent studying marine biology overseas at a partner university gives an enriching cultural experience which may help to broaden your horizons when it comes to seeking employment.
Your year spent in industry will offer an enriching real-world experience, locally or overseas, giving a competitive advantage when it comes to seeking employment.
As a Biosciences student, you will already have a wide skill set which you will widen further during your placement year.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/law/llb-maritime-law:
This is an innovative four year LLB undergraduate programme, specialising in aspects of both maritime and commercial law.
Students enrolled on this programme will complete their first three years' undergraduate study at Dalian Maritime University (DMU).
On successful completion of these three years, students also have the option to take their final year at Swansea University.
You will spend your first three years studying with the Law School at Dalian Maritime University, with the option to either spend your fourth year at Swansea University's School of Law, or remaining in Dalian for the duration of the programme.
Both institutions put a strong focus on the combination of legal theory with practical learning opportunities, offering sector-leading facilities and numerous chances to put theory into practice, and develop the key skills needed for a successful legal career.
The programme focuses on key aspects of maritime and commercial law, with both universities having established research institutes in these areas, ensuring you will be taught by industry experts.
You will benefit from being part of a lively and diverse research and teaching environment with students at its heart.
Swansea University has an established and growing reputation for teaching and research in both maritime and commercial law.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/marketing/bsc-marketing-foundation-year:
Are you interested in an exciting career in the diverse field of marketing, where your expert knowledge and skills can be used to anticipate customer behaviours, create advertising campaigns, manage brand reputation and influence global product demand?
If so, then the BSc Marketing with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is ideal.
The Foundation Year is an excellent pathway to gaining essential knowledge and skills, before joining Year 1 students of the BSc Marketing degree within the School of Management.
If you don’t attain the necessary grades to enrol on to the BSc Marketing course, the BSc Marketing with a Foundation Year degree is for you.
Across the four year course, you will develop an understanding in key marketing and management principles whilst honing your marketing abilities through pursuing specialist topics such as consumer behaviour, social media marketing, market research, marketing communications, application development and international marketing.
With this course you will gain the skills needed for a stimulating career as a marketing practitioner and develop the critical thinking to make well informed strategic marketing decisions that make real world impact.
Get ready for exciting career opportunities in a variety of roles including communications, insights, content marketing, customer experience, influencer marketing and digital optimisation.
The BSc Marketing with a Foundation Year degree at Swansea University is a flexible degree with the chance to study abroad for a year, or work in industry for a year.
As a Marketing graduate from Swansea you will be in an excellent position to secure employment in a range of professions from consultancy work to integral roles in local, national and global organisations.
If you want to target multinational agencies such as Accenture Interactive, Ogilvy or McCann or see yourself working in-house for globally renowned brands or even smaller organisations with a local or UK focus, this degree makes you a strong candidate for any potential employer.
You will receive a solid business foundation in your early studies, covering accounting, finance, operations management and managing people, as well as marketing.
As the course continues you will begin to specialise in marketing modules leading to either a 30-credit marketing dissertation or 30-credit final year project in your final year.
NOTE : Select one module (30 credits) from the list below:
The years following your Foundation Year are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) Accredited Degree programme and provides students with two exemptions from a core module towards the CIM Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing or one exemption from a core module towards the CIM Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing*.
Their wide-ranging knowledge and expertise is linked closely with the module content you are taught, ensuring you learn the most relevant and up to date information and develop skills required for a dynamic marketing career.
To claim module exemptions students will need to register as a CIM member within 3 years of graduating and then have up to 5 years from graduating to complete the additional module(s) to gain the full qualification.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/som/marketing/bsc-marketing:
Can you picture yourself working for a multinational marketing agency with a household name brand?
This degree will distinguish you from the pack as a committed marketing graduate with the dynamic creative skills required to assertively manage marketing on a global, national or local level.
Whether you are seeking to work agency or client side, in the third sector or for your own marketing consultancy, our course equips you everything you need for a career as a marketing practitioner.
Taught on the Bay Campus at a stunning beachside location, the BSc Marketing degree at Swansea University offers a strong grounding in marketing principles and key management disciplines.
By combining your learning of marketing strategy with contemporary topics on consumer behaviour, marketing research, international marketing and digital marketing, you will learn to think critically and make well informed strategic marketing decisions with impact in the real world.
This is the perfect choice if you want to pursue an energising, long and successful career in the field of marketing.
Marketing at Swansea is a versatile degree giving you the chance to study abroad or work in industry for a year.
These personally character-building opportunities can deepen your skill-set and broaden your horizons when it comes to finding employment.
In year 1 you develop a core foundation in business management and marketing, studying a range of business related topics.
In the following years you will specialise in marketing specific modules and have the chance to explore elective modules from other business disciplines.
Our teaching staff have hands-on experience of marketing theory and practice.
Through lectures, tutorials and one-to-ones you will absorb their academic expertise and knowledge of how real marketing actually works.
If this course inspires independent marketing aspirations of your own, we can help.
Our range of support includes business mentoring alongside corporate partners with a wealth of industry experience.
Marketing graduates from Swansea are in an excellent position to secure stimulating employment within diverse sectors and organisations, locally and internationally.
Whether you target the big multinational agencies such as Ogilvy, Edelman, McCann or IBM, global household brands or smaller organisations, this degree makes you a strong candidate for any potential employer.
As the course continues you will begin to specialise through optional modules detailed below.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) Accredited Degree programme and provides students with two exemptions from a core module towards the CIM Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing or one exemption from a core module towards the CIM Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing*.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/materials-engineering/beng-materials-engineering-foundation-year:
Successful innovation depends on the selection and performance of key materials.
From cars, aeroplanes and cruise ships, to sports equipment and musical instruments, the right materials can help to define technological progress.
Materials Science and Engineering explores how the properties of matter can be controlled.
It includes elements of physics and chemistry, connecting closely with most other areas of engineering.
This degree will prepare you for a rewarding career across engineering sectors including aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, sports, and energy generation.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of advanced equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider aerospace industry.
Engineering at Swansea University has a strong reputation and attracts students from across the world.
Graduates of Materials Science and Engineering at Swansea are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities.
NOTE : If a student has done A level (or equivalent) Chemistry but not Physics they must opt for EGA106.
If a student has done A level (or equivalent) Physics but not Chemistry they must opt for EGA103.
If a student has done A level (or equivalent) Physics and Chemistry they must opt for EG-137.
In the unlikely event that a student has no chemistry or physics background they would be best advised to do EGA106.
Their research areas of expertise include Metallurgy and Coatings, Fossil-Free Steel Making, Energy Store Materials and much more.
See all the Materials Engineering staff here .
The tuition fees for the Materials Science and Engineering degree do not cover costs incurred personally by the student such as the purchase of books or stationery, printing or photocopying costs.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk//undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/materials-engineering/beng-materials-science-engineering:
Develop your analytical abilities whilst gaining hands-on experience of advanced equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in industry.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H502) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H510) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Our state-of-the-art facilities include world-leading equipment for the characterisation of mechanical properties of metallic, ceramic, polymeric and composite materials.
We also have an extensive range of laboratories housing scanning electron microscopes with full microanalysis and electron backscatter diffraction capabilities.
Visits to Tata Steel , Timet, Ensinger and Airbus will give you real industrial world insights.
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, Tata Steel, Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, Atkins, GE Aviation, Mott MacDonald and Babcock International Group.
The BEng Materials Engineering course at Swansea University is accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the educational requirement for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.
The Materials Engineering department offer a variety of scholarships throughout their degree programmes.
These include entrance scholarships of up to £1500 for students with high A level grades (or equivalent), travel scholarships of £1000 for those on the year abroad schemes and high performance scholarships are given to students at the end of each year.
To find out more details on these scholarship opportunities please email engineering@swansea.ac.uk .
Application is not necessary, bursaries are awarded automatically by the Portfolio Director and Admissions Tutor following enrolment.
Students will receive formal notification of their scholarship award before the start of term.
The tuition fees for the BEng Materials Science and Engineering degree do not cover costs incurred personally by the student such as the purchase of books or stationery, printing or photocopying costs.
My role specialises in failure analysis, particularly for the petrochemical, oil and gas, and power generation industries.
I manage the operational activities of the consultancy business, business development and the investigative metallurgical work.
This includes failure analysis, quality problems and product liability issues for a variety of industries, particularly in power generation, petrochemical and process plant for an international client base.
I also manage the consultancy business’ research and development programmes; an ongoing project is an Innovate UK funded study to develop a novel integrity model for stainless steels in high temperature nuclear applications in partnership with EDF Energy.
This project follows on from a previous Innovate funded project and the master’s I completed with Swansea University on the thermal degradation of austenitic stainless steels.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/engineering-applied-sciences/materials-engineering/meng-materials-science-engineering:
To find out more about what the course is like, we interviewed Dr.
Mark Coleman, our Senior Lecturer in Metallurgy with some frequently asked questions .
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H503) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H506) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Visits to Tata Steel , Timet , Ensinger and Airbus will give real industrial world insights.
Graduates of Materials Science and Engineering at Swansea are set on course for a range of stimulating career opportunities.
The MEng Materials Science and Engineering course at Swansea University is accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the educational requirement for Further Learning for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.
The tuition fees for the MEng Materials Science and Engineering degree do not cover costs incurred personally by the student such as the purchase of books or stationery, printing or photocopying costs.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/health-social-care/maternity-care-he-cert:
We have designed this innovative one-year Higher Education Certificate for people with an interest in maternity or health care or for those wishing to consolidate their existing skills in this sector.
This course is a gateway to numerous education and career pathways and aims to equip its students with the tools needed for success on any journey they choose.
You will be studying in a department with an international reputation, and this course has been recognised by UNICEF UK, which has awarded it Level 1 Baby Friendly Initiative status.
Our Midwifery and Reproductive Health team have extensive expertise in maternity care with a strong focus on empowering women and families throughout the pregnancy, birth and the early parenting process.
Many of the team are active in maternity research and are driven to try to improve knowledge and understanding of women’s bodies, experiences, and needs during the transition to motherhood.
Our blended learning approach, which combines taught sessions with self-directed learning, will give you the flexibility to fit your studies around your other work or family commitments.
On completing this course there will be a number of career opportunities open to you.
N/A
Explore the teaching and research interests of our midwifery teaching team here .
Following completion of the first year, you will have the opportunity to transfer your credits onto the second year of the BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care degree.
Please click on the green ' Apply ' button on the top right of the webpage.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-mathematics-and-computer-science-with-foundation-year:
If you love the beauty, precision, complexity and simplicity of mathematics, and like being challenged, then the Mathematics degree at Swansea University is the course for you.
Our four-year BSc in Mathematics and Computer Science with a Foundation Year is suitable for students who do not have the necessary qualifications to enter the degree at year one.
The full BSc degree will focus on the application of mathematical ideas and computational skills to cutting edge real world problems.
This is an exciting field with rapid developments in areas such as modelling, graphics, security, data analysis, machine learning and artificial intelligence which are all underpinned by mathematical ideas.
Through this degree students will not only learn about the theoretical foundations of such ideas, but also develop the practical skills in programming and problem solving that employers are looking for.
Top 201-250 in the world Computer Science & Mathemtaics (QS World University Rankings 2025)
Mathematics and Computer Science at Swansea University is a highly regarded degree which draws students from far and wide.
You will master the ideas and logic of mathematics and their applications and will acquire a highly desirable set of transferable computer skills that will set you apart in the employment marketplace.
The new £32.5M Computational Foundry building at our Bay Campus gives students access to bespoke study and teaching spaces designed by and for mathematicians and computer scientists.
Our Mathematics Reading Room provides a quiet study space for mathematics students, as well as housing a departmental library of resources for study and research, and our state-of-the-art computer labs include a vision and biometric lab, maker lab, theory lab, cyber security/networking lab, user lab and visualisation suite.
Our Computer Science graduates have become: Analyst Developers, Business Analysts, Computer Programmers, Electronic Engineers, Graphic Designers, Software Developers and Machine Learning Engineers with companies that include IBM, Google, Disney, Facebook, Microsoft and Sony.
As you progress through your course you will have more flexibility to study more of the topics that interest you, culminating, in your final year with a 30-credit project module, studying an area of Mathematics and Computer Science of your choosing.
NOTE : CS-135: Logic and AI Theme.
MA-182: Modelling and Simulation Theme.
MA-192: Data Science Theme.
NOTE : CS-205: Logic and AI Theme.
MA-241: Modelling and Simulation Theme.
MA-252: Data Science Theme.
NOTE : CS-265: Logic and AI Theme.
MA-243: Modelling and Simulation Theme.
MA-292: Data Science Theme.
NOTE : Select a module based on your chosen theme .
CS313: Logic and AI Theme.
MA-311: Modelling and Simulation Theme.
MA-364: Data Science Theme.
NOTE : Select a module based on your chosen theme.
CSC375: Logic and AI Theme.
MA-365: Data Science Theme.
MA-371: Modelling and Simulation Theme.
Our BSc Mathematics  and Computer Science will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications , when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
See all Mathematics staff
See all Computer Science staff

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-mathematics-and-computer-science:
Our new three-year BSc in Mathematics and Computer Science will focus on the application of mathematical ideas and computational skills to cutting edge real world problems.
Our Mathematics Reading Room provides a quiet study space for mathematics students, as well as housing a departmental library of resources for study and research, and our state of the art computer labs include a vision and biometric lab, maker lab, theory lab, cyber security/networking lab, user lab and visualisation suite.
Top 201-250 in the World Computer Science & Mathematics (QS World University Rankings 2025)
Our Computer Science graduates have become Analyst Developers, Business Analysts, Computer Programmers, Electronic Engineers, Graphic Designers, Software Developers and Machine Learning Engineers with companies that include IBM, Google, Disney, Facebook, Microsoft and Sony.
NOTE : MA-182: Modelling and Simulation Theme.
MA-192:  Date Science Theme.
CS-135:  Logic and AI Theme.
CS-292: Data Science Theme.
NOTE : CSC313: Logic and AI Theme.
MA-364: Date Science Theme.
NOTE : CSC375: Logic and AI Theme.
CSC313: Logic and AI Theme.
Our Mathematics department is actively contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals through , in areas such as Cancer research, further mathematics in schools and mathematical and statistical modelling.
Places and availability change annually so specific destinations can’t be guaranteed, but previously Mathematics students have completed their year abroad in Australia, Canada, Singapore, France, Germany, Spain, The Netherlands and the USA.
As a mathematics and computer science student you will already possess multiple skills that employers look for.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci//mathematics/bsc-maths-and-sport-and-exercise-science:
Sport and Exercise Science is equally rooted in our distant human beginnings and anchored to our present state.
It explores how the human body performs under different levels of pressure and covers broad issues from wider participation in sports, to ethics, sports psychology and nutrition.
Our three-year combined BSc degree covers a broad base of classical and contemporary theory across both disciplines and has been designed to be fresh and relevant to the wider industry.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned staff including Dr Edwin Beggs , Reader in Mathematics and an expert in Algebra and Geometry, and Dr Nicholas Owen , expert in human biomechanics.
As you progress through your course you will have more flexibility to study more of the topics that interest you.
NOTE : Subject to Pre-Requisite Requirements
NOTE : Statistics stream
NOTE : Modelling stream
NOTE : Choose a module based on your chosen stream (see notes)
Dr Irina Rodionova Admissions Tutor , Mathematics
Dr Rachel Churm Admissions Tutor Sport and Exercise Science
See all the Mathematics staff
See all the Sport and Exercise Science staff

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-mathematics-for-finance:
Contemporary finance and business are underpinned by mathematics, and our Mathematics for Finance degree reflects a close connection with industry.
Our three-year BSc Mathematics for Finance degree allows you to investigate the number theory studied by Pythagoras and the financial mathematics depended on every day in Wall Street.
It covers a range of materials including pure mathematics and applied mathematics.
You will also concentrate on stochastic processes and stochastic analysis, which are central for applications to finance.
The Swansea University Actuarial Science programme is accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA)
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned applied mathematicians including Prof Jiang-Lun Wu , Professor of Mathematics and expert in stochastic processes and their application to problems from economics and finance, and Professor Eugene Lytvynov , expert in quantum probability
As you progress through your course you will have more flexibility to study more of the topics that interest you, culminating, in your final year with a 15-credit practical project module in an application of mathematics for finance.
Choose Exactly 75 credits from the following Modules:
NOTE : Subject to pre-requisite requirements
Our BSc Mathematics for Finance will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications , when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
You will get a chance to talk to your tutor who can tell you about their experiences as a student and also chat about student life.
As a mathematics student you will already possess multiple skills that employers look for.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-mathematics-with-foundation-year:
Our BSc Mathematics with a foundation year allows students who do not have the necessary qualifications to enter the degree at year one.
The full BSc degree covers a broad base of classical and modern mathematics.
It allows you to focus on one aspect of the subject, or cover a breadth of material.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Dr Noemi Picco , Lecturer and applied mathematician who specialises in the mathematical modelling of health and disease, and, Professor of Mathematics, an expert in stochastic control theory and random population dynamics.
NOTE : Choose two modules.
Our BSc Mathematics will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications , when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
See all Mathematics staff
The importance of gaining valuable core skills and life experience whist at University has never been so critical.
In the Mathematics Department at Swansea University you will be taught a  full range of topics by leading experts that will enable you to successfully pursue a wide range of careers.
Their role is to listen and feedback on your opinions, attend regular meetings and make sure that the people who can make changes listen to the people who really matter- you!

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/bsc-mathematics:
Our three-year BSc degree in Mathematics offers a rigorous foundation in mathematics.
The course covers real and complex analysis, linear and abstract algebra, geometry, differential equations, and options include more advanced topics such as probability, functional analysis, game theory and biomathematics and data science.
Mathematics at Swansea University is a highly regarded degree which draws students from far and wide.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Dr Noemi Picco , Lecturer and applied mathematician who specialises in the mathematical modelling of health and disease.
This programme is accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA) , so the successful graduate can gain exemptions for up to three IFoA professional exams.
Places and availability change annually so specific destinations can’t be guaranteed, but previously Mathematics students have completed their year abroad in Australia, Canada, Singapore, France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and the USA.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/maths-comp-sci/mathematics/mmath-mathematics:
If you are driven by intellectual curiosity and wish to be distinguished as a talented, ambitious and committed mathematician, then the MMath Mathematics degree at Swansea University is the course for you.
Our MMath Mathematics is a challenging four-year course taking you to a masters-level work.
It is designed for those who want to study in more depth, or who might want to use advanced mathematics in their careers or in research.
You can choose to specialise in a particular aspect of mathematics or study courses from across the broad range offered by the department.
Your learning will be shaped by inspirational and internationally-renowned academics including Prof Vitaly Moroz , Professor of Mathematics and expert in analysis and partial differential equations, and Dr Nelly Villamizar , Senior Lecturer, who is a researcher in the applications of algebraic geometry.
13th in th UK for Teaching Quality (Guardian University 2025)
Many of our Year 3 and Year 4 modules alternate annually in order to provide students with different modules to study in years 3 and 4.
Please get in touch for further details.
Choose Exactly 90 credits from the following Modules:
MMath students must select either MA-311  and/or MA-325.
Choose Minimum Of 90 credits from the following Modules:
Our MMath Mathematics is accredited to meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications for taught masters degrees.
Each course has a student rep.They are there to make sure that every student voice is heard.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/mechanical-engineering/beng-mechanical-engineering-foundation-year:
Mechanical engineers transform pioneering ideas into groundbreaking inventions.
The discipline helps to invent, design and manufacture many of the machines we use on a daily basis.
Our degree prepares you for a rewarding career in a range of engineering sectors.
As you progress, your developing analytical abilities will combine with hands-on experience of advanced equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider industry.
Mechanical Engineering graduates are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities.
Their research areas of expertise include Bionics, Green Energy, Cybernetics, Solar Cells and much more.
See all the Mechanical Engineering staff here .

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/mechanical-engineering/beng-mechanical-engineering:
Mechanical engineers transform pioneering ideas into ground-breaking inventions.
Our Mechanical Engineering degree prepares you for a rewarding career in a range of engineering sectors.
You will develop your analytical abilities whilst gaining hands-on experience of advanced equipment, establishing skills which are vital to securing employment in the wider industry.
20th in the UK Mechanical Engineering (Daily Mail University Guide 2026)
131st in the world (Engineering Mechanical, Aeronautical & Manufacturing) (QS World University Rankings 2025)
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H305) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H308) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
You will work closely with our state-of-the-art facilities throughout your time in Swansea.
These include a dynamics mechanics laboratory, a fluids laboratory and our JetCat P120 engine test room.
We also have cutting edge units for digital manufacturing and robotics.
Hear about Kameel's experience studying Mechanical Engineering at Swansea.
Our graduates are set on course for a range of exciting career opportunities including:
Our graduates go on to have interesting and varied careers at companies such as, Tata Steel, Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, BP, GE Aviation, Ford and Babcock International Group.
Modules build on established mechanical principles for application within a wide range of sectors.
Later study options allow you to specialise by taking either the design pathway or the manufacturing pathway.
The BEng Mechanical Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the educational requirement for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by many countries that are signatories to international accords.
I’m currently working as a SAP Maintenance Planner at Body in White technology, in BMW MINI, Plant Oxford.
My work primarily involves providing SAP support to the Central Maintenance and the production team, reporting to the managerial level and director on technology performance, as well as working on various projects to support the current and the new vehicle manufacturing process.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/aerospace-civil-electrical-mechanical-engineering/mechanical-engineering/meng-mechanical-engineering:
The MEng is a four-year integrated degree that goes beyond the BEng, offering advanced technical and leadership skills, deeper specialisation, and a direct pathway to professional accreditation.
This course offers you the opportunity to spend a YEAR IN INDUSTRY (UCAS H306) , in the UK or overseas, giving valuable workplace experience as well as a salary that is currently over £15,000 on average.
We also offer you the option to spend a YEAR ABROAD (UCAS H309) at a partner university which enriches the degree, giving you a valuable cultural experience which can broaden your horizons when seeking employment.
Mechanical Engineering graduates are set on course for a range of stimulating career opportunities.
NOTE : Design Pathway
NOTE : Manufacturing Pathway
The MEng Mechanical Engineering at Swansea University is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the educational requirement for Engineering Council registration as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/media-comms-journalism-pr/ba-media-communication-foundation-year:
Study Media and Communication with us and you will learn practical skills to equip you for an exciting career in the media, marketing or related fields, as well as transferable skills which are valued by employers and open up a range of wider career opportunities.
You will have the chance to explore radio and video production, digital and social media, journalism, public relations, branding, marketing and more, learning from experienced industry professionals and leading academics.
A work placement will give you first-hand experience of media and communication, and you will have the option of studying a semester abroad in Hong Kong, Singapore or the USA.
You will start the degree course in your second year, when we offer a varied and flexible programme, so you can shape your course to match your career goals as well as developing your own interests.
You can choose topics including creative media practice, radio and video production, digital and social media, journalism, public relations including strategy, branding and marketing, media theory, media law and film.
A work placement and the opportunity to spend a semester overseas will both enhance your student experience and career prospects.
Our Media and Communication Graduates are truly international and are employed around the world.
When you move on to the degree programme, your early studies will introduce you to media and communication, before you choose your own pathway with modules to suit your own interests.
NOTE : Select MS-126 or MSW126 (note MSW126 is taught through the medium of Welsh)
You may choose either MS-229 or MSW229  but not both.
NOTE : Select three modules.
Students may select either HIH283 or HIH283W but not both.
NOTE : Please select three modules in semester one.
Students should bear in mind if you choose MS-311 you MUST also choose MS-310.
MS-228 must have been taken in year 2 for students to select MS-323
NOTE : Please select three modules in semester two.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/media-comms-journalism-pr/ba-media-communication:
*Media Studies, based on the average positivity score per theme in the NSS 2025 when ranked against universities as featured in the Times Good University Guide.
Your early studies will introduce you to media and communication, before you choose your own pathway with modules to suit your own interests.
You may choose HIH283 or HIH283W but not both.
NOTE : Students have the opportunity to engage in a Year in Industry placement.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/culture-communication/media-comms-journalism-pr/ba-english-literature-media:
Study Media and English Literature with us and you will learn practical and transferable skills to equip you for an exciting career in the media or related fields, as well as knowledge of literature and writing which could open up a range of wider career opportunities.
You will have the chance to explore radio and video production, digital and social media, journalism, public relations, branding and marketing, as well as a range of literature from the Middle Ages to contemporary fiction, creative and professional writing.
You will learn from experienced industry professionals, leading academics, and published writers.
Based on our stunning Singleton Park campus, in parkland overlooking Swansea Bay on the edge of the Gower Peninsula, you will be joining two highly-rated subject areas.
You can choose media topics including creative media practice, radio and video production, digital and social media, journalism, public relations including strategy, branding and marketing, media theory, media law and film.
You can combine these with English Literature topics including gothic and genre fiction, gender and culture, renaissance literature, national and global literatures, modernity and contemporary writing, 19th century literature, creative writing and professional writing.
A work placement and the opportunity to spend a year overseas will both enhance your student experience and career prospects.
Our Media and English graduates are truly international and are employed around the world.
Your early studies will introduce you to Media and Communication and English literature, before you choose your own pathway with modules to suit your own interests.
NOTE : Select 2 x20 credit modules.
Note: Students can select either MS-103 or MSW108, but not both and MS-126 or MSW126 but not both.
Student must not select more than three modules in total per semester.
NOTE : Students must select at least two modules and may select three modules and not select from the optional box below.
In total, students must not exceed THREE modules (60 credits) in any one teaching block
NOTE : Select one module if required to make up 60 credits (three modules) of English Literature.
Students must not exceed three modules in any one teaching block
NOTE : Select two modules to make up 60 credits in Media.
Students must select 60 credits (three modules) per joint honors subject and three modules in each semester.
In order to take MS-323 you must take the pre-requisite MS-228.
NOTE : Select a minimum of 40 credits and a maximum of 60 credits if you do not wish to select a Creative Writing module from the box below.
Students must not select more than 60 credits per semester

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medical-biochemistry-with-foundation-year-bsc-hons:
The foundation year of this four-year course will introduce you to the key concepts and knowledge you need to progress to the BSc in Medical Biochemistry.
Our Medical Biochemistry degree will give you an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, from bacteria to plants, animals, and humans.
This degree is a Pathway to Medicine programme.
Provided you meet the minimum entry requirements for Graduate Entry Medicine .
You have successfully completed this Pathway , you will be guaranteed an interview for our flagship Medicine (Graduate Entry) MBBCh course.
NOTE : Please choose TWO of the following modules.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medical-biochemistry-bsc-hons:
Medical Biochemistry is at the heart of modern medicine.
It is crucial to the way we understand the causes and effects of disease and how we develop novel treatments.
You will learn about the chemical processes that occur within living organisms and study how cells work at the sub-cellular and molecular levels.
You’ll gain an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, particularly animals and humans.
Why not consider our BSc Medical Biochemistry with a Foundation year ?
A degree in Medical Biochemistry opens up a range of exciting career opportunities in diverse fields including:
This degree also provides an ideal base for further study to become a medical doctor and many of our students have gone on to study Graduate Entry Medicine at Swansea.
You can find more information on our Medical Biochemistry degrees by visiting our .
Your first year is made up of modules covering the essential foundations of medical biochemistry, including human physiology, energy and metabolism, biochemistry skills development, organic chemistry, molecular genetics, and eukaryotic cell biology.
As you progress, you will further develop your knowledge, studying specialised topics including clinical biochemistry, human and medical genetics, human immunopathology, techniques in molecular biology, membrane trafficking, and doctors patients and the goals of medicine.
NOTE : Yo must choose TWO of the following modules.
Medical Biochemistry students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest Medical Biochemistry research.
Principle teaching staff for the Medical Biochemistry programme are:
Personal Tutor
Student Life Officer
Medical School Information Office

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medical-biochemistry-msci-hons:
Medical biochemistry is at the heart of modern medicine.
The MSci programme follows our BSc in Medical Biochemistry course, but offers specialist training in a broad range of laboratory techniques.
In this advanced undergraduate degree you will learn about the chemical processes that occur within living organisms and study how cells work at the sub-cellular and molecular levels, and gain an in-depth understanding of the biochemical function of living organisms, particularly animals and humans.
You will benefit from access to the state-of-the-art research facilities at the Medical School, including bioanalytical equipment such as High-Performance Liquid Chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, DNA and protein analytical equipment, computer-based image analysers for molecular or cellular studies.
An MSci Medical Biochemistry opens up a range of exciting career opportunities in diverse fields including:
Your first year is made up of compulsory modules covering the essential foundations of medical biochemistry, including human physiology, energy and metabolism, biochemistry skills development, organic chemistry, molecular genetics, and eukaryotic cell biology.
In your final year you will complete an advanced independent research project under the guidance of a professional research scientist.
NOTE : You must choose TWO of the following modules.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medical-genetics-with-foundation-year-bsc-hons:
The foundation year of this four-year course will introduce you to the key concepts and knowledge you need to progress to the BSc in Medical Genetics, following successful completion of the Foundation Year with at least a 60% overall average, students will progress onto Year 1 of the BSc.
With a degree in Medical Genetics, career opportunities are diverse and extensive.
NOTE : Please select ONE of the following modules.
NOTE : These options are only available to students who are also selecting PM-280.
NOTE : These options are only available to students who are also selecting PM-254.
NOTE : Students select 20 credits from the following optional modules.
Medical Genetics students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on our latest genetics research.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medical-genetics-bsc-hons:
The study of medical genetics is an exciting and fast-moving field that is making an enormous impact on medicine, helping us to understand, diagnose, and treat many human diseases.
Our Medical Genetics degree will give you an in-depth knowledge of these essential building blocks of life.
You will benefit from access to the Medical School’s state-of-the-art research facilities, including DNA and protein analytical equipment, and computer-based image analysers for molecular and cellular studies.
You can choose to study Medical Genetics as a:
Why not consider our BSc Medical Genetics with a Foundation year ?
Your first year is made up of modules covering the essential scientific foundations, including evolutionary & molecular genetics, genetic analysis, eukaryotic cell biology, and human physiology.
As you progress, you will further develop your knowledge, studying specialised topics, including human and medical genetics, animal development, human immunopathology, genetic toxicology, genetics of cancer, and doctors patients and the goals of medicine.
NOTE : These options are only available to students  who are also selecting PM-280.
Medical Genetics students will be taught by a range of world leading researchers based at the Medical School, giving you unrivalled access to teaching on the latest genetics research at the Medical School.

New sentences found on https://swansea.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medical-genetics-msci-hons:
The study of medical genetics is an exciting and fast-moving field that is making an enormous impact on medicine, helping us to understand, diagnose, and treat many human diseases that have a genetic component.
The MSci programme follows our BSc in Medical Genetics course, but offers specialist training in a broad range of laboratory techniques.
This advanced undergraduate degree will give you an in-depth knowledge of the essential building blocks of human life.
In addition to your formal studies, we hold research talks at least weekly given by Swansea University staff or speakers from other universities or research institutions.
As you progress, you will further develop your knowledge, studying specialised topics including human and medical genetics, animal development, human immunopathology, genetic toxicology, genetics of cancer, and doctors patients and the goals of medicine.
Medical Genetics students will be taught by a range of world leading research based at the Medical School, giving students unrivalled access to teaching on latest genetics research at the Medical School.
Principle teaching staff for the Medical Genetics programme are: