# Site: https://www.tees.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 439
# --------

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk:
Teesside University
For our dedication to social inclusion, future ambition and outstanding facilities
(Daily Mail University Guide 2026)
for student experience
(TEF 2023)
The majority of our research was judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent
(REF 2021)
to become an Adobe Creative Campus
(Ofsted 2025)
(Customer First UK)
More about our award, league table & survey information
Recognising our dedication to social inclusion, future ambition and outstanding facilities (Daily Mail University Guide 2026)
We're the only University in the North East to receive a rating of gold overall as well as for student experience and student outcomes (Teaching Excellence Framework).
Hear about life at Teesside from current students, take a guided tour of the campus including the library, Students' Union and teaching spaces.
Teesside University is a people place.
Study here and you are part of a close-knit, vibrant and supportive community.
Learn more
As an anchor institution, and a driving force for prosperity, our success as a University has been built on an engaged approach to research and innovation.
We offer tailored solutions that address today's challenges, helping you and your business thrive in an ever-evolving marketplace.
Sat
06
Sep
Undergraduate open day
9.00am - 3.00pm
On campus
Postgraduate open day
Wed
15
Oct
More events
Teesside University has once again been rated Outstanding by Ofsted for our apprenticeship provision.
21 Aug 2025
19 Aug 2025
More news
We are committed to investing in our estate to enhance the experiences of our students, the business community and the wider communities we serve.
Find out more about our friendly town campus at the heart of Middlesbrough.
We are proud to have a campus in the creative heart of London, specialising in digital and business courses at Here East in Stratford.
Tees Valley Middlesbrough TS1 3BX  UK Travel directions
T: 01642 218121 E: enquiries@tees.ac.uk E: International enquiries
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park (Here East) 14 East Bay Lane London E15 2GW  UK Travel directions
T: 020 3960 9330 E: london-enquiries@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud:
Search here to find answers to lots of commonly asked questions.
UNIverse is our dedicated self-service portal which has everything you need in one place.
More about UNIverse
Student Life is your go to place for information, advice and support for anything relating to your student experience outside of the classroom.
Student Life provides a wealth of student support services for students to access both physically and virtually.
The Student Life building is located in the Campus Heart and there is also a Student Life Hub at Darlington Campus.
You can also browse our Student Life web pages for access to advice and support to help you succeed at Teesside.
At Teesside University, we recognise that sexual misconduct and violence, including, but not limited to, rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking and domestic abuse are matters of international concern impacting university communities.
More about Harassment and Sexual Misconduct
For information about urgent mental health support, including outside of office hours, please use the link below for self-help information and emergency contact information.
Urgent mental health support 24/7 Mental wellbeing support service Local mental health services
If you are experiencing extreme hardship we may be able to help.
Please contact us by email at studentlife@tees.ac.uk
There's so much support and opportunities available to students as they journey through their studies.
Whether it's academic, welfare, health or a drive to make the most out of your time at Teesside, we've got it covered.
At Teesside University, we ensure that your voice is heard.
Your opinions shape how our university works and what it stands for, the curriculum, the campus and the wider student experience.
Find out more about Student Voice
14 Aug 2025
30 Jun 2025
23 Jun 2025

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/staff:
JavaScript is required.
This web browser does not support JavaScript or JavaScript in this web browser is not enabled.
To find out if your web browser supports JavaScript or to enable JavaScript, see web browser help.
For guidance on logging on click here .
If you have forgotten your password but have registered for self-service password recovery, please visit Password Recovery .
If you have two factor authentication and need help, click here .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/visiting/travel.cfm:
Teesside University Middlesbrough Tees Valley TS1 3BX    UK
Press Centre Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park (Here East) 14 East Bay Lane London E15 2GW
Teesside University Vicarage Road Darlington DL1 1JW
(access via Green Street) Darlington DL1 1HG (For Sat Nav use DL1 1GL)
Unit 7 Ferrous Road Middlesbrough TS2 1DJ
Middlesbrough is in the North East of England.
These travel directions will help you find us whichever way you are travelling.
Arriving on campus
All visitors must report to the Visitors' Centre to receive a health and safety induction.
This will have been arranged by the School/Department you are visiting.
For one-off visitor bookings:
Visitors' Centre
93 Borough Road, Middlesbrough, TS1 3AA T: 07880 782407 E: tuvisitorscentre@tees.ac.uk
Monday to Thursday: 8.30am - 5.00pm Friday: 8.30am - 4.30pm
Car
Middlesbrough is linked to the national road network by the A1(M), the A19 and the A66 dual carriageways.
Follow signs to the town centre - the University is signposted from there.
The A19 passes within one mile of Middlesbrough.
The University's main entrance and reception is at the intersection of Linthorpe Road and Southfield Road.
Unless otherwise advised you should report to reception.
Note unless advised otherwise there is no available parking on the University Campus.
Town centre car parks are nearby.
By bus
A National Express coach service operates to and from Middlesbrough Bus Station.
By train
Middlesbrough is 30 minutes from Darlington Station which operates direct services to London and Edinburgh.
The TransPennine Express runs between Middlesbrough and Newcastle, York, Leeds, Manchester, Manchester Airport and Liverpool.
By air
Teesside International Airport is 13 miles away.
It has flight connections to many British and European airports.
Cycling
Middlesbrough has a secure cycle park.
Facilities for cyclists map (pdf - 3mb)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/pay.cfm:
The preferred method of payment is online as it is the most timely, efficient and secure method of making and receiving payments.
Payment confirmation is also provided.
Dependent on your card provider the system may ask for additional information in line with 3D secure requirements, this gives you an added layer of security when paying online.
All payments are made in GBP Sterling.
Terms and conditions (for online payment) Read the HMRC guide to help protect yourself from fraud
Make a student payment
Make a general fee payment
Update your debit/credit card details
Make an accommodation deposit
Make a MyPrint top-up
Make a Cashless top-up payment
Go to the online shop
Pay a company invoice
Cancel TUSC
Refund information Frequently asked questions
Fee information: Undergraduate | Postgraduate | International | Fee Regulations | Pay in instalments
How to set up an instalment plan Find out how to set up an instalment plan.
Students should set this up as soon as they receive their invoice - it's the only way to be able to pay in instalments.
Find out how to set up an instalment plan.
The Finance team can help with any questions you may have.
Please contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk or search our FAQs (UNIverse) .
Request your PIN by emailing onlinepayments@tees.ac.uk
Manage your PIN
For example: student, parent, other family member, friend, sponsor, agent.
Should you have 3 or more failed payment attempts, or more than one chargeback (cancelled transaction), we reserve the right to withdraw your offer if you are an applicant or your sponsorship and ability to study if you are a student.
All applicants and students are reminded that all payments made on their account are their responsibility and any repercussions of activity suspected or proved to be fraudulent will be against that applicant/student.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/common/accessibility.cfm:
We have attempted to follow relevant standards and good practice for accessibility and usability while developing the University website, including the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
We have also tested the site extensively in a wide range of browsers and settings to ensure the site functionality is available to as many users as possible.
Access keys help users who find it difficult to use pointing devices (a mouse) to navigate.
They use a combination of keys and numbers to navigate around the website.
Windows users will find access keys take precedence over application commands which can still be accessed from the keyboard by first typing the menu shortcut key (usually ALT) followed by the letter or number corresponding to the desired menu item.
Users of screen reader will find that disabling the use of CSS in their browser means the first link on each page is a skip navigation link.
This can also be triggered using the access key mentioned above.
An EU directive on the accessibility of websites and web applications of public sector bodies came into force in September 2018.
This was passed into UK law entitled as the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This law reinforces the need to follow the standards above and in particular those defined in WCAG 2.1 AA standards.
We constantly review our web pages to ensure that we are compliant with this legislation.
If you come across a part of our site that is difficult to use or could be improved in terms of accessibility or usability we apologise and would be very grateful if you could email us at d.honeyman@tees.ac.uk .
Your feedback is an invaluable part of helping us improve our site
The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) has useful tips on contacting organisations about inaccessible websites .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/study:
Our range of courses includes undergraduate or postgraduate degrees, research, professional apprenticeships, online learning, CPD and more.
More about undergraduate study
More about postgraduate study
Book an open day
More about short courses & CPD
More about apprenticeships
More about online learning
Undergraduate courses Postgraduate courses

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/index.cfm:
We're here to help if you have any questions about your application, your course, the University or campus.
It's not too late to start university.
You can apply through Clearing if you want to start uni this September.
Tour our facilities, meet current students, and get a real feel for university life.
Our open days and campus visits are the perfect chance to discover our courses, campus, and community.
Experience a taster lecture and see what it’s really like to study at Teesside and benefit from a real university-style lecture from expert academics.
A blog all about student life here at Teesside - mental health support, how to study from home, tips from in and around Teesside.
Study in our town-centre campus with £280m of recent investment and everything is within walking distance.
More about our campus
Live in affordable accommodation right on-campus - from only £100 a week
Are you eligible for an iPad, keyboard and up to £300 credit for learning resources?
We offer a generous funding package if you are starting in September
Study at Europe's first Adobe Creative Campus and develop your creative and digital skills.
Top surf, a national park, shopping, culture, bars and famous clubs.
Our main campus is in the heart of Middlesbrough, a friendly town with all the shops, restaurants, cinemas, pubs, clubs, sports and museums you would expect - and an art gallery and bridge that are a little more surprising.
Filmed on location in Middlesbrough and the region.
Explore their favourite places and they may become yours.
Discover Middlesbrough
We've got top surf, a national park on the doorstep plus unique shopping and culture, bars and famous clubs.
More about our region
Want to learn more about undergraduate study at Teesside University?
Then come along to one of our open days.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/index.cfm:
Earn more, achieve more - a postgraduate degree can enhance your skills, career prospects, and salary.
Find out more about postgraduate study at Teesside.
Got questions?
Chat with us online.
Whether you're thinking about applying to us, or have already applied, book on to our open day and explore our courses, campus and facilities.
Did you know, we offer a range of scholarships if you are applying to study a postgraduate course here, along with discounts if you are a continuing Teesside student.
If you are considering a career change or would like to study a completely new subject, our broad range of postgraduate conversion courses could help you on your new path.
Get to know our friendly campus
If you can't make it to an open day, book your own personal tour or take a virtual tour and get to know us better.
Book a campus tour More about our campus
Stand out from other job applicants with your higher level qualification, specialist knowledge and expanded networks.
Improve your project management, critical thinking, research skills, time management, presentation skills and teamwork.
The median salary for working-age postgraduates (£45,000) was £5,000 more than for working-age (those aged 16 to 64) graduates (£40,000) in 2023.
(Graduate labour market statistics)
Study in our friendly town-centre campus with £280m of recent investment.
Want to learn more about postgraduate study at Teesside University?

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parttime/index.cfm:
You can take a short course for continuing professional development, to refresh your knowledge in a particular subject or to study a programme for your own interest.
These University Certificates have a number of start dates throughout the year.
We also run short courses, great if you would like to return to study after a break from education or enjoy the personal satisfaction of learning.
View an A-Z list of courses
A Summer University course will boost your confidence and could be your first step towards gaining a degree.
Stay competitive with CPD courses that deliver the latest industry insights and practical skills for real-time growth.
Study 100% online, at a time that suits you.
We offer a student-first approach and community learning so you can grow your network of connections.
Unlock the potential of your team with apprenticeships designed for real-world impact.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/index.cfm:
Teesside University | Online Learning
Teesside University ranked in the top 50 for online learning in the Uswitch Online Learning Index 2022.
Teesside University was named University of the Year at the Edufuturists Awards 2022.
Ranked in the top 350 list of global universities aged 50 years or under.*
Over 1,000 students enrolled on our open learning courses
High-quality, stand-alone, open learning education for over 30 years
Online learning allows you to get a university-level qualification without having to physically attend our campus.
No fixed schedule means you choose when and where you study, and who with.
Foster connections and friendships, expand your networks.
Read journal articles, watch lectures and contribute to discussions at times and locations that suit you.
An online course opens opportunities for you to be a career developer or career switcher.
Take it to the next level, stand out from the crowd, develop your passion.
Learning online doesn't mean learning alone.
Regular contact with students from around the world and our academic staff here in Teesside supports and encourages collaborative learning.
More benefits about learning online
Register your interest by emailing our team or giving us a quick call today.
Online learning allows you to get a university-level qualification from the comfort of your own home or workplace.
Teesside University open learning in engineering is one of the leading providers of high-quality flexible education to the engineering industry.
* Teesside University was ranked in the 251-300 band of 673 global universities in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024.
Find out more

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/index.cfm:
*1,712 responses in survey of 105,385 global participants and 31,990 UK participants.
Based on the views of 12,383 students within a global survey response of 129,975 students.
More info at Tibal Group website | International Student Barometer Autumn 2024
Find out about our entry requirements, our local offices and agents in your area.
Pathway programme at Teesside University International Study Centre can provide an alternative route of entry onto your undergraduate degree.
Find your pathway
Combine study and work experience with our new two-year master's degrees
Find your course
Graduate route is a visa which allows you to stay in the UK for at least two years after successfully completing a degree course in the UK.
The school and its lecturers are top-notch at imparting knowledge, and Teesside has the environment and infrastructure to facilitate a positive student experience.
Victor Osariakhi Obazee - MSc Crime Intelligence and Data Analytics More about Victor Osariakhi Obazee

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/howtoapply.cfm:
Explore our pages to find out everything you need to know about applying to university, from what you should be thinking about when researching your choices to deadlines, late applications and hints and tips on university interviews.
If you want to find out more about our courses, 'our subject areas' tiles provides lots of information to help you make your decision.
You can also book to come along to an open day or taster day to get a real insight into a subject.
From forensics to fashion, computing to criminology and marketing to media, with so much choice it's important you carry out as much research as possible when exploring your university options.
If you have a career path in mind, you may need a degree in a particular field.
For instance, if you want to be solicitor you need to have a law degree.
The most important thing is to do something you enjoy.
There are lots of different ways to study including Higher National Certificates (HNCs), undergraduate study, foundation degrees, apprenticeships or something else?
More about different levels of study
You can choose to study full-time but it's also possible to study part-time while you work or look after a family member.
Online study is becoming increasingly popular and could be another avenue to explore.
Does your course need to be accredited by a relevant awarding body for your career plan?
For example, if you would like to work as a psychologist you need to study a degree that's accredited by the British Psychological Society.
To be a journalist, you need accreditation from the National Council for the Training of Journalists.
This information is available on university websites or in the prospectus so make sure to check.
Every university has different entry requirements so don't assume that, just because one university asks for 112 UCAS tariff points including maths to study an engineering degree, that allwill ask for this.
Check out the modules included and if there are topics that interest you.
And the types of assessment may also differ - some can include exams, others may have presentations or reports as part of their assessment process.
Think about what works best for you .
Our open day checklist will make sure you ask the right questions.
Consider where you want to live and what type of campus you want to study at.
Would you prefer to live in a city or a more rural area?
Do you want your university to be on a campus?
Do you want to stay close to home or move as far away as possible?
Think of the distance in terms of time and travelling costs.
How well equipped is the university for the subject you want to study and how much have they invested in the facilities you will use?
How much access will you have to those facilities and do they match what is used in the industry?
Consider arrangements for work placements, volunteering options and opportunities to study abroad.
Does the university have halls of residence, or will you rent a shared house or flat?
Do you want to live on campus or further out, with fellow students or by yourself.
Be mindful that the cost of accommodation and everyday living costs can vary a lot.
Each university is regularly assessed on the quality of its academic provision and student satisfaction.
You can find details on the Quality Assurance Agency website , your chosen university's website and Students' Union website, and the DiscoverUni website .
You may also want to consider the relevant league tables for your institution or subject area.
Universities offer incentives to students in the form of scholarships and bursaries.
These might be based on academic, sporting or musical achievements, household income or subject specific relevant to the course you are applying for.
Types of incentives include discounted course or accommodation costs, iPads and laptops, money towards travel expenses and books.
This information should be available on the university website so check out what you might eligible for.
Making friends and trying new activities are important so make sure you check out local clubs and societies.
The Students' Union play a an important role in students' lives so it's worth finding out what's on offer socially at your shortlisted institutions.
Are there activities going on in the local area for you get involved in?
If you are a water sports or hiking fan, what opportunities are available for you?
Once you've done your research you have to narrow your choices down to five.
These can be five courses all at one institution or at various universities.
This is the maximum number of places that UCAS allows you to apply to at one time, so it's essential to think very carefully about which institutions and courses you put down on your form.
Open days and taster days are a great way to find out if a course and university is for you.
You can check out the campus, facilities and accommodation and chat to academic staff and current students and find out if the university is the right fit for you.
Next you need to choose your firm (first choice) and insurance (second choice) from these five so start to think about your preferred course and university.
Head to our applying pages to find out what's next.
Once you've decided which universities and courses are suitable, it's time to apply.
Applications to all UK universities for full-time undergraduate courses are made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
You can apply for up to five courses.
You can start applying for courses in the September of the year before you want to start.
UCAS opens in September for you to submit your application
Your school or college may set an earlier deadline to allow time for them to check your personal statement and attach a reference.
For most courses, UCAS must receive your application between 1 September and 6pm on the final Wednesday in January.
If you are applying to any course at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, or for most courses in medicine, veterinary medicine/science, and dentistry, you need to send your application to UCAS by 15 October (in the calendar year before you want to start).
How and when to apply to university Find out more about when you need to apply and the application process.
Find out more about when you need to apply and the application process.
You should start to receive offers from those universities you have applied to.
There are four types of offer you might receive.
Unconditional offer If you have already met the entry criteria of the course you applied for.
Conditional offer If you need to meet any particular requirements first, such as exam results.
Unsuccessful The university has decided not to offer you a place on the course.
Withdrawn Either you or the university has withdrawn your application.
A reason may be shown in your UCAS Hub.
What next?
Based on your offers, you need to decide which is your firm choice (your first choice) and which is your insurance choice (your second or backup choice).
Choices, Deadlines and Clearing Find out more about what your offers mean and what you need to do when you receive them.
Find out more about what your offers mean and what you need to do when you receive them.
Universities still accept applications after the UCAS January deadline - but only for courses that still have places available.
UCAS Extra opens at the end of February for those who haven't been made an offer from their five choices.
If you're eligible for UCAS Extra, an additional button will appear on your UCAS Hub screen.
Decisions are conditional, unconditional or unsuccessful.
If you're unsuccessful or turn down an offer you can continue making more choices up until 30 June.
Find out more UCAS Extra.
Late applications and UCAS extra Find out more about applying after the UCAS equal consideration deadline has passed
Find out more about applying after the UCAS equal consideration deadline has passed
Clearing is the last opportunity for you to secure a place at university.
It runs from early July until mid-October.
If you already have your exam results but you have no offers, you can use Clearing from July.
If you had conditional offers but your exam results didn't go to plan, you can use Clearing from results day, when Clearing vacancies are listed in the UCAS search tool.
If your exam results are reasonable and you're flexible on subject and location, there's still a good chance you'll find another course.
Applying through Clearing?
Get an overview of what Clearing is and how it works.
Once you have applied to university, you may be invited for interview.
Every university has a different style of interviewing.
Some might be informal, others might follow a structured programme and could include other applicants (the group interview).
Some might ask questions that require you to give examples of what you have done, others might ask scenario-based questions, so 'what would you do if...'.
It's worth preparing for all eventualities.
It's easy to let your nerves get the better of you but remember, you've been invited to interview because the university is interested in finding out more about you.
So you've already made a great start.
Before the day think about:
Cover the basics.
On the day, bring with you:
Whether you decide to study at your local university or move away, budgeting for your studies is very important.
Balancing your incomings and outgoings before you start your course will help you keep in control of your money.
Your cost of living will vary depending on where you live and what you study.
Student advisers are on hand in each university and within your college to help you with your budget plan and to highlight any financial support packages you may be eligible for.
Bear in mind there may be specific financial implications of studying a particular course.
Be proactive and seek this advice.
It won't be long before you are packing your bag for your first day at uni.
Your chosen university should be able to provide you with information on the cost of living and prices for university managed housing, such as halls of residence.
Many institutions will send you this information during the application process.
Think about how much it will cost you to get to university each day, by car or public transport or can you walk?
If you have a car, can you really afford to maintain this?
Think about credit cards, mobile phone bills, car and house insurance.
Will you be responsible for paying for gas, electricity, phone and a TV licence?
Setting up direct debits or standing orders may help you keep on top of bills.
How much money you will spend on groceries.
Think about the more economical places to shop for food and clothes which will allow you to save your pennies for the fun stuff.
Text books may cost anything between £10 and £25 and are likely to be one of your biggest expenses.
You can cut the cost significantly by borrowing from the library but remember there will only be a limited number of copies and you will only be able to borrow them for a limited time.
Try to get there as soon as your reading list is published.
Many students also sell their used copies cheap so keep a look out on library or online noticeboards.
We recommend that you open a student bank account - primarily for the interest free overdraft facility.
But remember, an overdraft is not income; it should be seen as a safety net.
If you should need to use it, always keep your bank informed of your situation and never go over your agreed limit without the banks agreement.
If you do, interest will start to rack up and charges are added - it can become difficult to get out of this debt.
Credit cards and store cards can be useful if you have a regular (and healthy) source of income and you can afford to make more than the required minimum monthly repayment.
Your first year at uni is likely to involve a good amount of socialising so work out how much you have available to spend on an average night out.
Your Students' Union will offer good deals on food and drink but don't make the mistake of blowing all your money in the first term.
Think realistically about how often you can afford to go out.
Find out more about applying for student finance
Your personal statement is an opportunity to sell yourself to your chosen university.
It will be used to decide whether a university offers you a place.
It's particularly important if you are applying to courses that don't interview.
There is a limit of 4,000 characters, this is around one side of A4 in size 12 font.
This may seem a lot and can be quite daunting at first, so before you start make notes and a plan of what you want to include.
This will form the base of your personal statement and give you an idea of where to start.
Should I type it straight into the application form?
You may find it easier to write your statement as a Word document first.
This can help you edit and format it, and to keep an eye on the character count.
You can paste it into your UCAS application once you're happy with it.
The application journey: personal statements Hints and tips on writing an effective personal statement for university
Hints and tips on writing an effective personal statement for university
These are our five top tips for writing your personal statement.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parents/index.cfm:
A university education can change your young person's world
University today is accessible to anyone, whatever the background or household income.
If you didn't go to university, you might feel daunted by the application process and even wonder whether university is the right choice for your young person.
Work through stages 1 to 5 with your young person and use the information, activities and downloadable materials to effectively support them in their journey to higher education.
Why university?
Choosing a course and university
Applying to university
Countdown to university
Why choose Teesside?
View our town-centre campus with £280m of recent investment
Visit us to see campus, chat to staff and get all your questions answered.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/schoolscolleges/index.cfm:
Your Enrichment.
Your Support.
Year upon year Teesside University develops new initiatives, invests in their campus and delivers excellent outreach support and CPD for college staff.
As the University goes from strength to strength this can only benefit ourselves as a valued university/college partner.
Carol Race Stockton Riverside College
Bespoke curriculum days have significantly enriched the educational experience for our students and empowered them with the knowledge and confidence needed for a smooth transition to higher education.
This partnership has played a pivotal role in supporting the academic journey of our students and strengthened our commitment to providing them with the best possible foundation for their future in higher education.
Carolyn Yule Middlesbrough College

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/coursesearch:
What are you interested in?
Filters
Attendance
Level
Type
Showing 50 results of 701
2D Animation and Stop Motion, BA (Hons)
Ideal for those with a passion for visual effects and motion graphics.
Combine your technical and creative skills to create live-action and digital 2D/3D content into sequences for film and TV.
Subject: Animation, Concept Art & Visual Effects Full time: Yes Part time: Yes UCAS code: I156 BA/2DASM
2D Animation and Stop Motion, MA
You prepare, write and make your own short animation ready for festival release.
You learn how to write and pitch your film script to industry professionals and funding bodies, spend time learning how to deconstruct animation against several theoretical and critical frameworks as well having the opportunity to experiment with animated form.
Subject: Animation, Concept Art & Visual Effects Full time: Yes Part time: Yes
2D Animation and Stop Motion (with Foundation Year), BA (Hons)
Learn how to tell a story and bring your characters to life with our 2D animation and stop motion degree.
Subject: Animation, Concept Art & Visual Effects Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: I158 BA/2DASMFY
3D Games Art, MA
Our MA 3D Games Art has a strong focus on preparing you for working in the industry through technical implementation of creative digital artwork for games.
The course has been designed by current staff and industry professionals with a wide variety of professional experience in the games industry in the UK and internationally.
Subject: Computer Games Full time: Yes Part time: Yes
Academic Professional Apprenticeship (APA) with Postgraduate Certification of Learning and Teaching in Higher Education, PgCert
The academic professional apprenticeship provides an easily accessible and high-quality route to meet the professional development needs of practitioners who are new to teaching and supporting learning roles in higher education.
Subject: Education & Youth Full time: No Part time: Yes
Academic Skills for Higher Education, Certificate
You gain an insight into the core academic skills for future study at University level within a business discipline.
Subject: Business Management & Enterprise Full time: No Part time: Yes
Accounting and Finance, BSc (Hons)
Accounting and finance are key functions that lie at the heart of business organisations.
This accounting and finance degree course offers excellent graduate prospects, allowing you to work in some of the most prestigious accountancy firms around the world.
Subject: Accounting & Economics Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: N420 BSc/AcF
Accounting and Finance, MSc
Accounting and finance are central to managing organisations effectively.
This course integrates accounting, leadership and change, and gives you a practical insight into developing the discipline.
It also provides you with a firm knowledge of accounting and finance and the adaptability needed in a rapidly changing environment.
Subject: Accounting & Economics Full time: Yes Part time: Yes
Accounting and Finance (Applied), MSc
Subject: Accounting & Economics Full time: Yes Part time: No
Accounting and Finance (with Foundation Year), BSc (Hons)
This accounting course offers excellent graduate prospects, giving you the opportunity to work in some of the most prestigious accountancy firms around the world.
Subject: Accounting & Economics Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: N424 BSc/AcFFY
Accounting Essentials for Business Success, Certificate
You will gain an understanding of key financial statements as well as budgeting, and develop an appreciation of the impact of events and decisions on the profitability of any organisation, whether large or small.
Subject: Accounting & Economics Full time: No Part time: Yes
Adeno-Associated Virus 101, Non-accredited CPD
This course introduces the fundamentals of Adeno-Associated Viruses (AAV) and their role in the biopharma industry.
You explore AAVs’ structure, function, and their growing importance in gene therapy and bioprocessing.
Suitable for all levels, this course provides insights into AAV development and manufacturing processes.
Subject: Biosciences Full time: No Part time: Yes
Advanced Biomedical Science, MSc
Biomedical science is about deepening our understanding of the human body in health and disease, helping to develop treatments that can save and improve lives.
Subject: Biosciences Full time: Yes Part time: Yes
Advanced Bioprocess Control, Data and PAT, Non-accredited CPD
This five-day course provides in-depth training in the benefits, strategies and concepts control in industrial biomanufacturing, including the challenges and operational complexity in maintaining productivity, efficiency, and quality in the bioprocessing environment and on multi-unit production lines.
Advanced Clinical Practice, MSc
Advanced clinical practice is a rapidly expanding role across all areas in healthcare.
This multi-professional course is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education and leadership.
Subject: Nursing & Health Full time: No Part time: Yes
Advanced Clinical Practice (Advanced Critical Care Practitioner), MSc
Advanced clinical practice is a rapidly expanding role across all areas of healthcare.
This multi-professional course is for those working in a critical care role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice (Advanced Paediatric Practitioner), MSc
This multi-professional course is for those working in a paediatric role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice (Advanced Primary Care Practitioner), MSc
This multi-professional course is for those working in a primary care role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice (Midwifery), MSc
This multi-professional course is for those working in a midwifery role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice Degree Apprenticeship, MSc
This multi-professional apprenticeship is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice Degree Apprenticeship (Advanced Critical Care Practitioner), MSc
This multi-professional apprenticeship is for those working in a critical care role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice Degree Apprenticeship (Advanced Paediatric Practitioner), MSc
This multi-professional apprenticeship is for those working in a paediatric role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice Degree Apprenticeship (Advanced Primary Care Practitioner), MSc
This multi-professional apprenticeship is for those working in a primary care role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced Clinical Practice Degree Apprenticeship (Midwifery), MSc
This multi-professional apprenticeship is for those working in a midwifery role and is developed around a national framework and the four capabilities of advanced clinical practice – clinical, research, education, and leadership.
Advanced ECG in Practice, University Certificate in Continuing Education
This award facilitates healthcare professionals from primary care, pre-hospital care and the acute care setting to develop, enhance, appraise and evaluate evidence-based knowledge underpinning the issues relating to electrocardiography interpretation and treatment of the adult patient with cardiac disease.
Advanced Pathophysiology, University Certificate in Postgraduate Continuing Education
Practitioners employed in advanced practice roles will enhance their competence in the clinical reasoning required for diagnostics and therapeutics with this module.
The focus is on pathophysiological principles to support clinical assessment and differential diagnostic analysis.
Advanced Personal Effectiveness , University Certificate in Postgraduate Continuing Education
The module is suitable for any health or social care professional seeking to develop their own personal effectiveness and leadership capability.
Advanced Physical Assessment and Disease Management Skills, University Certificate in Postgraduate Continuing Education
This module aims to equip practitioners with the necessary knowledge and skills to facilitate the clinical assessment of patients in acute and community setting within the scope of advanced practice specified by their employer.
Advancing Non-medical Prescribing, University Certificate in Postgraduate Professional Development
Independent and supplementary prescribing is an integrated feature of health service delivery, with some health specific professionals qualified to prescribe across a range of healthcare settings.
Advancing roles within both nursing and allied health professions has provided a greater access to medicines.
Advancing Paediatric Physical Assessment Skills, University Certificate in Postgraduate Professional Development
This module combines theoretical knowledge with clinical practice to extend your knowledge and skills in managing paediatric patients, including taking a history, and undertaking a physical assessment and diagnosis.
Aeronautical Engineering, HNC
Aeronautical engineering is a broad discipline including fundamental aspects of mechanical engineering, electrical and electronic engineering, materials engineering and design, as well as specialist aerospace topics such as aerodynamics, aircraft and avionics systems, composite materials and rotary wing mechanical and flight systems.
Subject: Engineering & Construction Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: H414 HNC/AE
Aerospace Engineering, MSc
This course offers you an advanced level of study in specific aspects of aerospace engineering which is in continuous demand from industry.
Subject: Engineering & Construction Full time: Yes Part time: Yes
Aerospace Engineering, BEng (Hons)
Aerospace engineers design, test and build aircraft, spacecraft, satellites and missiles.
If you have a passion for flight and space technology and want to become an engineer with varied skills, then this course is for you.
Subject: Engineering & Construction Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: H400 BEng/AeEng
Aerospace Engineering, MEng (Hons)
Subject: Engineering & Construction Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: H401 MEng/AeE
Aerospace Engineering (with Advanced Practice), MSc
This MSc programme offers you an advanced level of study in specific aspects of aerospace engineering which is in continuous demand from industry.
Subject: Engineering & Construction Full time: Yes Part time: No
Aerospace Engineering (with Foundation Year), BEng (Hons)
Subject: Engineering & Construction Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: H404 BEng/AEFY
AHP Practice Educator Training Update Day, Masterclass
In this masterclass you explore the latest knowledge, skills and behaviours required to fulfil the role of practice educator.
AI and Digital Skills for Business Impact, Cert HE
Data analytics is applied across almost every industry.
Using various data sources, business analysts make significant insight-driven business decisions and enhance customer value across all teams and functions, including operations, finance, sales, and marketing, enabling your workforce to thrive in an organisation.
AI In Leadership (CPD), Non-accredited CPD
As a business leader you are always looking for ways to stay competitive, drive growth and ensure the long-term success of your business.
This cutting-edge technology has the potential to transform the way you work, drive innovation and productivity, and give you a competitive edge in your industry.
Airline and Airport Management (Top-up), BA (Hons)
Delve into the inner workings of the aviation sector and gain real-world experience of working in an airport, for an airline, or a global aviation brand with this top-up course.
Guest lectures and field trips enable you to witness first-hand how airports, airlines and regulatory bodies function.
Subject: Aviation & Tourism Full time: Yes Part time: No UCAS code: N833 BA/AAM
Airline and Airport Management (Top-up) (Online), BA (Hons)
From check-in, security and consumer shopping, to managing passengers, VIP lounges and boarding, you walk in the passenger’s shoes to meet the demands of existing and future travellers in a highly competitive market.
Subject: Aviation & Tourism Full time: Yes Part time: Yes UCAS code: N83A BA/AAMTopO
An Introduction to Fashion Styling, Certificate
You are introduced to the principles of fashion styling.
You explore the practical representation of fashion and investigate approaches to fashion styling through a fashion editorial and/or a styling portfolio.
Subject: Art & Design Full time: No Part time: Yes
An Introduction to Fine Art, Certificate
Fine art is a creative exploration of communication and making, by interpreting information and the world around us.
You follow the process from interpreting ideas into fine art practice through visualising concepts into art works and communicating an interpretation of the medium, material and context.
You are encouraged to explore a range of ideas, processes and methods while completing a negotiated project.
No previous knowledge is assumed.
An Introduction to Graphic Design and Illustration, Certificate
Graphic design and illustration are the creative visualisation of communication, encompassing the interpretation of persuasion, education, information and entertainment through text and image.
An Introduction to Interior Design, Certificate
Interior design encompasses function, fashion, colour, light, materials and decoration.
You are introduced to the key principles and language of interior design – from interpreting the brief to realising and communicating creative ideas.
An Introduction to Supportive Care for People with Cancer and Other Long Term Conditions, University Certificate in Continuing Education
This module is specifically for staff working in a supportive role with patients who have cancer and other long-term conditions to gain a certificate level (Level 4).
An Introduction to Working with People with Mental Health and Learning Disabilities, Certificate
This module is designed as an introduction to the area of Mental Health and Learning Disabilities and is suitable for anyone who has an interest in increasing their awareness of this area of healthcare.
An Overview of Long-term Conditions and Clinical Management, University Certificate in Professional Development
The provision of care to those with long-term health conditions continues to be a significant challenge.
This module gives you the skills you need to be successful in this area.
Analysing Data using the Advanced features of Power Bi including Data Analytics Expressions, Non-accredited CPD
This one-day course equips participants with essential skills in Data Analytics Expressions (DAX) for business intelligence using Power BI, empowering you to leverage data for insightful reporting and strategic decision-making.
Subject: Computing & Cyber Security Full time: No Part time: Yes

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/whats_on/opendays.cfm:
All our current events are listed on this page.
You can search events by category and then select the event title for more details.
Many events are open to the public, some events require booking.
We go to higher education fairs around the country
Find out which events we are attending that you can come along to and find out more about what we offer.
06 September 2025 9.00AM - 3.00PM
15 October 2025 9.00AM - 3.00PM
There are 82 events
Select the titles for more details about the events.
Some are open to the public and/or require booking.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/enquiry:
Our prospectus contains everything you need to know about our courses, campus and people.
You'll also get to find out about the hidden gems of the Tees Valley.
Sound good?
Fill in this short form with your details and we'll send you your prospectus right away.
International student?
Use our dedicated International contact form

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business:
We know that businesses are built on bold visions for the future, but growth happens in the here and now.
That's why we work hand-in-hand with a range of industries to turn ambition into action.
We offer tailored solutions that address today's challenges and build the foundation for long-term success, helping you and your business thrive in an ever-evolving marketplace.
Unlock immediate results for your team and business through our range of support.
From workforce development to cutting-edge innovation, we turn bold thinking into action that drives success, today, tomorrow and into the future.
View our courses
Access cutting-edge academic research and expertise to drive innovation and deliver measurable results in your business.
Solve complex challenges and seize new opportunities with data-driven insights and tailored solutions from our expert research and consultancy services.
Access a pipeline of over 20,000 students and a wide network of alumni to meet your business needs.
Short-term projects or year-long placements.
Our students bring fresh perspectives and the latest industry knowledge to help drive your business forward.
'The KTP partnership has provided the company with the means to identify and solve complex problems to improve efficiency and accelerate growth, as well as helping Mersen to expand its industrial network and giving the opportunity to support digitisation and development in the local region' Andrew Freer Mersen UK Teesside Managing Director Explore how we worked with Mersen UK
Andrew Freer Mersen UK Teesside Managing Director
'As a growing business, it is vital we regularly test ideas to scope out potential new markets and validate whether there are opportunities to support students further with their mental wellbeing and personal growth, which as former students is our ultimate vision.' Joe Hilton Director of Semester Student Planner Explore how we worked with Semester Student Planner
Joe Hilton Director of Semester Student Planner
'We are very excited to begin this research opportunity with Teesside University and do our part in making Net Zero in maritime a reality, a goal our entire team is excited about.
The value of machine learning and analytic capabilities have already been well researched and applied in manufacturing and many engineering disciplines, but it is maritime’s turn to take the stage' Owain Brennan Managing Director Explore how we worked with SeerBI
Owain Brennan Managing Director
Teesside University has spearheaded an international hackathon, bringing together over 100 students from four global partner institutions to co-create social enterprise solutions addressing global challenges.
Full story
Teesside University has been crowned as the best modern university in the country in a major national award which highlights the transformative impact of its learning and teaching, setting a new benchmark for modern universities across the country.
Billingham-based Nicander Ltd provides innovative and effective software solutions, from simple desktop applications and apps for mobile phones through to complex software systems.
Nicander has worked with Teesside University on various projects in the past to access knowledge transfer activities as well as taking part in our specialist scale-up programme for digital companies.
Learn More
A team of business students from Teesside University has won the Greggs Marketing Challenge, developing a successful campaign concept for the well-known bakery brand.
As the world accelerates toward net-zero targets, solar energy is playing a critical role in reshaping global power systems.
However, the dominant silicon-based photovoltaic (PV) technology faces challenges in cost, efficiency and sustainability.
The SUNREY project is driving innovation in perovskite solar cells - an emerging technology with the potential to outperform silicon PV on multiple fronts.
By addressing key barriers such as stability, toxicity and scalability, SUNREY is laying the foundation for a new generation of high-performance, low-impact solar energy solutions.
More news More case studies
03
Sustainable Labs Conference
9.30am - 4.00pm
Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre
Thu
18
Machine Learning and AI in Construction and Advanced Manufacturing webinar
2.00pm - 3.00pm
Online
23
Carbon Reduction in Healthcare Planning
Join our mailing list to receive information about funding opportunities, programme updates, student and graduate recruitment opportunities, news and events.
Subscribe
We guarantee quality.
All our business services carry the Customer First Standard, a quality mark recognising excellent customer service.
And we can also help you source financial support.
Our business service charter sets out our commitment to a professional business service for all our clients.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/index.cfm:
'This collaboration has not only empowered the Trust's employees but has also reinforces the company reputation as a progressive and supportive workplace' Caroline Hamilton Learning and Development Operational Team Lead Explore how we worked with NHS South Tees Trust
Caroline Hamilton Learning and Development Operational Team Lead
'As well as resulting in a better-quality product, it also helps lower costs and reduces our environmental impact.' Dr Nanda Ayu Puspita KTP Associate Explore how we worked with Marlow Ingredients
Dr Nanda Ayu Puspita KTP Associate
'We have the potential to build a world and add elements that captivate people and get them excited.
I think we need more of that in today’s world.
It provides an escape.
That sense of magic is in everyone – we just provide the outlet for it.' Kevin Miree Hobgoblin 3D Founder Explore how we worked with Hobgoblin 3D
Kevin Miree Hobgoblin 3D Founder
Mersen UK Teesside is a world-leading manufacturing facility specialising in machined graphite products, anti-corrosion and hot glass handling equipment (CERBERITE®).
Due to the nature of the products they manufacture, they produce one off orders of specialist parts or small batches of less than ten.
Middlesbrough-based Avenium Engineering was set up by Greg Hynes.
They are the UK’s only agent and distributor for a market leading mechanical interlocking manufacturer, and the company grew quickly.
They design, supply, install and maintain the interlocking systems to the offshore industry, mainly in Aberdeen but also on Teesside.
The interlocking systems eliminate human error in valve operation, which, if it went wrong, could have catastrophic consequences for the environment and personnel.
ERW Joinery Ltd is a leading name in timber home improvement products.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/cpd.cfm:
Empower your workforce and nurture your talent with cutting-edge skills to stay ahead in a changing world.
In a world of constant change, staying competitive requires continuous learning.
Our CPD courses deliver the latest industry insights and practical skills, equipping your workforce to meet today's challenges head-on and drive growth in real-time.
Our CPD programmes are designed with leading industry experts to ensure practical, applicable training that delivers immediate business impact.
We offer bespoke CPD solutions to address your specific business needs, ensuring relevant skills development for your team.
Choose from online, on-campus, and blended learning to fit your team's schedule.
Learn from experienced academics and industry professionals, providing unparalleled expertise and knowledge.
Our dedicated CPD support team is available to guide your business through every step of the training process.
We are an approved provider on UK-wide and regional frameworks, making it easy for organisations to compliantly procure high-quality training and education.
Talk to us

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/index.cfm:
We know that shaping the future starts with the right talent today.
We help businesses develop and retain top talent, delivering the skills needed to close critical gaps.
Our tailored apprenticeships fuse practical, hands-on learning with academic excellence, ensuring your team is ready to drive immediate impact while staying future-proofed for tomorrow.
Explore our tailored courses designed to meet your business needs.
Looking to recruit a professional apprentice or upskill your existing workforce?
We're here to assist with the recruitment process and beyond.
With support from your employer, you'll combine academic work with on-the-job experience, offering you the best of both worlds.
With upcoming changes to levy funding for Level 7 programmes, now's your chance to secure top-tier leadership and management training before it's too late.
For Bellway Homes North East, partnering with Teesside University was a strategic move to address a growing skills gap.
Teesside University is partnering with Cleveland Police to offer the Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship (PCTA).
Site Gallery has partnered with Teesside University to offer the Curating Degree Apprenticeship, enabling staff to develop critical skills while continuing their roles.
Sir Robert McAlpine is collaborating with Teesside University on Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeships.
Teesside University and NHS South Tees Trust are collaborating on the Chartered Management Degree Apprenticeship, advancing staff skills and knowledge.
14 May 2025
21 Mar 2025
12 Mar 2025
18 Jul 2024
We currently do not have any business events planned, please check again in the near future for updates.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/research_innovation.cfm:
Turn original thinking into business breakthroughs
Turn original thinking into business breakthroughs.
Innovation is in our DNA, and we collaborate with businesses to push boundaries, create new knowledge, and lead industries into uncharted territory.
Drive innovation with research that leads industries and sets trends for tomorrow.
Work with world-class researchers and specialists to unlock untapped potential.
Let's bring groundbreaking ideas to life, apply cutting-edge research and technology, and accelerate your business' success.
We align our research and development focus with your goals, delivering practical solutions that spark meaningful change.
Find the right specialists to help you innovate.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) provide the links to the expertise you need to grow your business and gain a competitive edge.
Through Innovate UK funding, we help businesses develop commercial strategies and cutting-edge solutions, and build skilled teams to deliver them.
We facilitate the transformation of innovative concepts into tangible assets and help businesses unlock this intellectual property (IP) through licensing and access to our expertise.
Work with us to bring groundbreaking ideas to life, developing bespoke solutions using cutting-edge research and technology that to accelerate your business' success.
By combining our academic expertise with your business goals, we create research-driven solutions that redefine industries and set trends for tomorrow.
Find out more about our staff and doctoral students, research activities and outputs, and the impact our work makes in our local community, the UK and globally.
Whether you're looking to solve complex challenges, access cutting-edge expertise, or create new knowledge, we're here to help.
Let's discuss how our tailored research and development solutions can drive success for your business.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/facilities.cfm:
Home › Business › Facilities
Host your next conference, awards ceremony or training workshop at Digital Life.
Ideal for small gatherings or important meetings, this boardroom-style space offers a comfortable and private setting tailored to your team or business needs.
A contemporary space equipped with wireless smart TVs – perfect for delivering training sessions or hosting large team meetings.
Three meeting rooms designed to host important meetings in an enclosed and private space in a thriving digital hub.
This modern seminar room offers a professional and flexible environment for hire, ideal for business presentations, workshops or academic collaborations.
From conferences and networking events to away days and board meetings, this bright and modern space can be customised to suit your business needs.
Designed to simulate real-world practice, these state-of-the-art training facilities provide an immersive learning environment for healthcare professionals.
Part of a £17m investment in health and sports science, this specialist facility supports rehabilitation, recovery, and performance training.
Designed for legal training, this courtroom can be configured to replicate three different court environments for realistic practice.
Equipped with high-performance workstations, this facility supports advanced computational analysis, enabling complex data research in biosciences.
Providing specialist facilities, this lab focuses on biomanufacturing techniques, supporting the development of biological products for industrial and therapeutic use.
Focusing on greenhouse gas reduction, this lab explores cutting-edge methods to capture, store, and repurpose carbon dioxide, contributing to net-zero targets.
Providing specialist laboratory services for food processing, pharmaceuticals, biosciences, and archaeology, supporting research and industry applications.
Advancing sustainable resource management, this lab develops innovative approaches to material design, reuse, and recycling, transforming waste into valuable assets for research and industry.
A specialised research facility offering state-of-the-art equipment for advanced core analysis in energy, materials, and geological sciences.
Driving digital transformation, this lab explores AI, IoT, and data analytics to optimise business processes and improve industry performance.
Exploring hydrogen as a clean energy source, this lab collaborates with businesses to develop production, storage, and utilisation technologies, supporting industry decarbonisation.
Dedicated to biological research, this lab enables advanced studies in genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics, supporting innovation in biosciences.
Harnessing advanced technologies and data analytics, this lab enhances energy generation, distribution, and consumption to drive efficiency and sustainability.
Part of the Waters Centre of Innovation Programme, this lab supports bioanalytical research, providing advanced facilities for scientific collaboration and discovery.
Our HD News Studio features a 6 x 6 metre floor, three cameras, Pro-Tools audio booth, and full post-production facilities, all powered by Tricaster for live-streamed broadcasts.
Used for music, TV, and film projects, the facility offers high-quality audio mastering, track recording, and dialogue replacement with advanced sound recording equipment.
Our large HD TV studio features a 9.5 x 7 metre floor, three cameras, green screen, and soundproof booth, all powered by Tricaster software for live production and virtual sets.
Bringing together researchers, designers, and businesses, this facility transforms ideas into innovative textile designs and commercial products.
The two-storey facility supports a variety of productions, providing camera systems for crowd duplications, live action sequences, and customizable lighting, ideal for diverse creative projects.
These private suites offer high-speed data access, color grading desks, and media backup, providing everything needed for video editing and post-production projects.
With high precision and fast movement capability, the facility allows animators and game producers to capture complex data, from human actors to animals, for immersive digital experiences.
Robotic pipetting for sample preparation and laboratory workflows.
Handheld analytical instrument for metal composition analysis.
UPLC system coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer.
A £36.9m centre enhancing healthcare and learning, featuring digital anatomy labs, an oral health research centre, and immersive simulation suites.
Digital Life is our flagship centre for digital innovation, bringing together state-of-the-art facilities, cutting-edge research and real-world collaboration.
A dynamic hub for tech businesses, Fusion Hive drives collaboration, innovation, and growth through networking and knowledge sharing.
A contemporary art gallery with a striking glass-fronted foyer, MIMA offers a unique venue for large-scale dinners, networking events, and cultural gatherings.
A UK centre of excellence, the National Horizons Centre drives innovation in bioscience and healthcare.
Supporting clean energy and sustainability, this facility drives innovation in decarbonisation, renewable energy, and low-carbon technologies.
Bringing together graduates, researchers, and industry experts, this facility delivers cutting-edge solutions to tackle today’s biggest challenges.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/who.cfm:
Home › Business › Partnerships
6 Engineering turned to Teesside University's Help to Grow: Management programme to gain structured guidance on business growth, financial strategy, and organisational development.
Art Council England worked with the University to evaluate the Great Place Project.
Avenium worked with the University to see how they could work more productively with a new software system.
The NZIIC has provided AVGO Biotech with support from our Circular Economy team of industry and academic experts who investigated novel methods of eggshell separation.
Teesside University has partnered with Binding Solutions Limited (BSL) and Innovate UK to develop an innovative low-carbon composite pellet technology aimed at revolutionising steel production.
Bond Solon has a long term relationship with Teesside University and gained accreditation for their course.
Bondgate IT utilised the DigitalCity SCALE programme to transform its business.
Teesside University project: Boosting sustainability, reliability and efficiency of perovskite PV through novel materials and process engineering
Tree planting is fundamental to the forestry industry, and it is an essential element of mitigating the impacts of climate change.
The CM-NICE project addresses the critical challenges facing the global supplychain for minerals essential to renewable energy technologies.
Teesside University, in partnership with clean technology firm Altilium, is playing a key role in developing the UK’s circular economy for electric vehicle (EV) batteries.
Core Systems Software (Core) is a Tees-Valley based developer of project management software.
Corksol wins £150,000 innovation grant with the help of Teesside University.
Cumbria Constabulary has worked with Teesside University to train its cohort of senior police officers.
Direct Line Supplies (DLS) Limited have been sourcing and supplying popular produce to the UK food industry since 1988
Teesside University worked with the company to provide a bespoke leadership and management programme.
eLamb worked with Teesside University’s DigitalCity SCALE programme to grow their business.
ERW Joinery Ltd is a leading name in timber home improvement products
A team of Teesside University students worked with Greggs to develop a new campaign concept.
Hobgoblin 3D worked with Teesside University to gain funding to set up their business.
Tracerco is a leading innovator providing essential insights to the world’s critical industries, using advanced tools, science and technology.
Husqvarna is working with Teesside University to upskill its workforce.
John Boyd Associates (JBA)  Ltd undertake engineering, design, consulting and delivery activities across a number of sectors – predominantly oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, food and storage.
Teesside University and Lionweld Kennedy are collaborating through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP), giving the company access to academic expertise and a full-time Associate.
KTP is part funded by Innovate UK.
Magmec produces localised magnesium metal from brine sources, including water desalination by-products and aquifer sources.
The company is providing a cleaner, circular alternative for the global magnesium supply.
The partners collaborated through a knowledge transfer partnership (KTP), which provides the company with access to academic skills and expertise, along with an Associate recruited full-time to work on the project.
Discover How MatchSaver’s Innovative Pitch Cover Reduces Carbon Emissions and Enhances Football Clubs’ Sustainability While Optimising Manufacturing Costs.
Mersen worked with Teesside University to introduce a digitised manufacturing process.
The University is working with Micropore Technologies, to develop a catalyst membrane for a hydrogen catalytic membrane reactor.
MITIE works with Teesside University to train health professionals working in the criminal justice system.
Myco Foods Ltd (MFL) is a key player in the plant-based food industry, supplying its Hooba® meat replacement mince product to both branded and supermarket own-label products.
Nicander has taken on a Teesside University graduate by accessing funding through the Growth Associate Programme.
North Tees and Hartlepool NHS has worked with the University on enhancing their innovation.
NYMAS has taken on two Teesside University interns and saved costs with in-house product design and development.
The University worked with Peel Jones Cooper Products Ltd to roll out a fully digitalised manufacturing process.
The PROGRESS project addresses critical gaps in global trade by integrating cutting-edge technologies to ensure the physical assurance of goods within supply chains.
Quorum Development Ltd worked with Teesside University to connect their software to a wind turbine.
Discover How Innovative Smart Energy Solutions Can Reduce Carbon Emissions by 43% in the Mobile Food Unit Industry
Resolution.
worked with Teesside University to focus on and growth their business.
Enhancing Sustainable Delivery Solutions with Rounton Coffee Roasters
Teesside University worked in collaboration with Sabic to develop a series of masterclasses for their employees.
Teesside University's Collaborative Journey with Scott Bros: Pioneering Sustainability and Innovation
SeerBi is working with Teesside University to look at reducing harmful CO2 emissions in ports throughout the world.
SeerBI creates actional solutions by providing machine learning, big data development, and artificial intelligence (AI) services
Semester Student Planner (SSP) is a start-up company based within the Teesside University campus.
Siemens and Teesside University have a long term working partnership on a variety of projects.
Simon Carson School of Sport Ltd had support to develop their new programme  Keep Fit, Keep Calm.
Sofia worked with two Teesside University graduates to research their CO2 output.
Stuff4Life have been working with Teesside University to provide a solution for recycling workwear and PPE.
The University worked with Sunderland City Council to carry out an evaluation of their Time to Care Project.
Tapered Plus has worked with the University on reclaiming the cost of their state-of-the-art app
Ten Feet Tall has taken on graduate interns from Teesside University to help them meet their business objectives.
The Algorithm People (TAP) and Teesside University joined forces to bring a revolutionary level of optimisation to road transport.
The Faraday Training Centre is an international training company, providing training at their sites in the UK or at their clients sites.
Three Brothers Brewing Company manufacturers award-winning craft beers which is brewed in the heart of Teesside
uGlow, a self-tanning business, partnered with Teesside University’s Help to Grow: Management programme to explore B2B opportunities and develop effective growth strategies.
Yellow Box Marketing joined the DigitalCity SCALE programme, which helped them grow into a full service agency.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/contact.cfm:
Get in touch to access a wealth of University expertise.
All enquiries are treated confidentially - the more information you can provide, the more focused we can be in our response.
01642 384068 business@tees.ac.uk Please complete the below fields to submit this form * Fields marked with an asterisk are required.
Teesside University (the Data Controller) will use your information in order to meet its legal obligation and in the public interest to improve equal opportunities for underrepresented groups 
		and to measure the impact of the activities which we carry out to achieve this.
This includes sharing your information with government bodies including the Office for Students, Higher Education Statistics 
		Agency, Department for Education, and Education and Skills Funding Agency.
Further information about the use of your information can be found in our Outreach and Recruitment Activities Privacy Notice .
We may contact you by email about similar activities or events that we think may be of interest to you.
You will have the option to unsubscribe at any time.
With your consent we would also like to contact you by post, phone or SMS.
Please tick to opt in if you would like to be contacted in this way:
We're committed to a high level of service, but sometimes things go wrong.
If this happens we welcome the opportunity to put things right, and promise to treat complaints and concerns openly and fairly.
If you have any comments about the quality of our service, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/news.cfm:
Home › Business › Business news
Teesside University has contributed to a new report by the Institute of Economic Development (iED) and AtkinsRéalis  which ‘puts universities at the centre of the debate on how to generate growth in local and regional economies with national impact’.
Two Teesside University graduate start-up teams, Shiverbug Studios and Archive Interactive, have been selected to take part
in Tranzfuser 2025, the UK’s flagship graduate game development competition.
Teesside University’s student recruitment agency Unitemps has formed a partnership with Outwood Grange Academies Trust (OGAT) schools in the region to work with students as an innovative approach to address staffing challenges in local schools across the Tees Valley.
12 Jun 2025
2 Jun 2025
24 Apr 2025
8 Apr 2025
20 Mar 2025
11 Mar 2025
19 Feb 2025
17 Dec 2024
12 Dec 2024
9 Dec 2024
25 Nov 2024
15 Nov 2024
23 Oct 2024
21 Oct 2024

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/business_events.cfm:
Home › Business › Business events

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research:
Three core institutional themes frame our research and drive our mission to transform lives and economies.
Our Net Zero research is shaping a cleaner, greener future which will be transformative for our region, the UK, and beyond.
Our research in health and wellbeing addresses the medical challenges of the future, driving positive change in healthcare across regions.
Our research is transforming the lives of individuals and communities powering a sense of pride, place and cohesion.
A pioneering research collaboration between Teesside University and a leading Greek research institute is set to explore innovative technologies for direct air carbon capture, as part of a prestigious Royal Society International Exchange Award.
Teesside University and Lionweld Kennedy are collaborating through a knowledge transfer partnership (KTP), which provides the company with access to academic skills and expertise, along with an Associate recruited full-time to work on the project.
At the Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre (NZIIC), we are spearheading the transition towards a sustainable and prosperous future.
The National Horizons Centre (NHC) is Teesside University's £22.3m centre of excellence for the biosciences and healthcare sector.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/research_strategy.cfm:
With a reputation for social inclusion, we deliver research that makes a difference to individuals, organisations, and society.
The majority of our research impact was assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent in the REF 2021.
Over the last five years we have refocused our research and innovation activities to ensure they address the socio-economic and environmental challenges faced by our region and beyond, and have invested in staff, facilities, equipment and infrastructure, improving the quality of the research environment.
Recovery, Regeneration, Renewal Our Research and Innovation Strategy 2022-2027 will see us invest in and deliver research which makes a real difference to individuals, organisations and societies.
Our Research and Innovation Strategy 2022-2027 will see us invest in and deliver research which makes a real difference to individuals, organisations and societies.
Key examples include our National Horizons Centre, a centre of excellence for bioscience and healthcare.
In partnership with industry, we deliver life-changing research on disease discovery, treatment and drug development.
Our art in action approach, centred around the Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art (MIMA), has generated discussion on urgent issues such as climate change, migration, inequality, and ageing.
And through international research partnerships we have improved post-harvest practices in Uganda, alleviated groundwater contamination in Brazil and empowered women writers in Pakistan.
Over the next five years, we will build on these foundations.
Aligned to the UN's sustainable development goals, our research will contribute to improving health and wellbeing, reducing social inequality, advancing affordable and clean energies, and developing sustainable cities and communities.
In response to the challenges of reaching net zero and to support regional priorities around innovation and economic growth, we are building a Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre .
This Centre will develop new technologies to deliver decarbonisation and sustainable energy solutions.
In collaboration with long standing partners in the healthcare system, we will support advancements in clinical practice through our Integrated Care Academy .
And through new collaborations forged with civic partners, policymakers and community leaders, we will enhance productivity and address social inequities through the Institute for Social Innovation .
These strategic initiatives will be supported by interdisciplinary networks and public engagement activities around three broad themes of net zero, health and well-being, and people and place.
To deliver the scale of our ambition, we have developed a research and innovation strategy that focuses on recovery, renewal, and regeneration.
Over the next five years we will focus on five priorities.
These are:
Through a regionally engaged approach that is of global relevance, we will support recovery, regeneration, and renewal in the region and beyond.
Research at Teesside is governed through the policies listed below:
More about research governance
Teesside University strengthens international research ties...

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/institutional_themes.cfm:
As an enterprising and ambitious university, our research reflects our role as an anchor institution with a global footprint and reputation for excellence.
We synergise expertise from a range of disciplines, working in partnership with industry, and communities to address regional, national, and global challenges.
From discovering new ways to improve patient care and managing pain, fighting poverty and inequality, to powering regional digital and green agendas, we are committed to making a positive contribution to the communities we serve.
Aligning our research to these core themes ensures our work meets community needs, is shaped by society, and drives equality and economic growth.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/research_centres.cfm:
Find out more about the centres linked to our institutional themes below.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/impact.cfm:
Driven by the expertise of Teesside University's community of academics, our research aims to have a positive impact on the economic, social and cultural success of students, partners and the communities we serve.
From shaping global public health policies on obesity, physical activity and jet lag, to increasing cultural engagement, transforming the digital capabilities of the construction sector and tackling organised crime, our research addresses some of the most complex issues facing the world around us.
But we don't do any of this alone.
Our researchers partner and collaborate with businesses, charities, local and national governments and members of the public, ensuring that all our work has relevance and value beyond the university - whether that's locally, nationally or on a global scale.
Our approach to research impact is underpinned be the Teesside University Impact Framework that outlines the values and behaviours, capabilities and competencies, and mechanisms for advancing research impact, ensuring we maximise the potential of our research and the benefits of research to our communities and stakeholders.
Formed in April 2019 to meet the demand by external agencies for research that informs and benefits the local and regional economy
Teesside University has been awarded an AHRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA).
Public Engagement is central to all our activities whether research, enterprise, and knowledge exchange, leaning and teaching or wider university operation as an anchor institution with a civic mission.
The case studies below demonstrate the far-reaching impact of our research.
Harnessing Industry 4.0 to better integrate renewable energy plants across power networks...
More
Analysing commemorations of the 1916 Easter Rising to understand how historical events create...
Informing smarter approaches for preventing and dealing with organised crime...
Reimagining the role of communities in curating museums and galleries...
Shaping UK Government health policy and UK and USA guidelines on the prevention and treatment of...
Highlighting the value of stakeholder participation when developing public health programmes...
Exploring the role of rapport-building and intermediaries in engaging vulnerable individuals in the...
A landmark trial challenging the surgical trend in treating broken shoulder...
Helping people with long-term health conditions and their health professionals improve...
Using novel digital technologies to manage information flow in complex construction and engineering...
Informing global approaches to community tooth decay prevention programmes...
Increasing the visibility of marginalised disabled people in cultural spaces and cultural production...
An immersive three-day workshop focused on advancing the research careers of next generation women...
Giving value to alternative narratives for the North East’s heavily industrialised past...
Using breakthrough 3D modelling techniques to better understand fragile and ancient objects...
Using novel digital tools to embed building information modelling (BIM) capabilities in the...
If you are interested in finding out more about any of our research impact please contact us.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/postgraduate_research.cfm:
Welcome to the postgraduate research pages where you will find the information you need about the range of postgraduate research opportunities available and how to apply for them.
View opportunities and funding information
Resources for current students

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support.cfm:
The web pages below provide information, guidance and resources to support researchers at Teesside University.
The Research and Enterprise Office (REO) provides professional support to researchers, including funding, projects, impact, public engagement, ethics, policy, research data systems, training and development and supervision.
Contact REO at research@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/news.cfm:
25 Jul 2025
Teesside University academics have contributed to a major report which highlights how Northern regions have some of the poorest diets in England, putting them at risk of conditions such as obesity, hypertension and other preventable diseases.
22 Jul 2025
Across the North of England, families are facing a dual crisis: rising food insecurity and growing food waste.
In response, Community Food Organisations (CFOs) - like social supermarkets and pantries - are stepping up in powerful, community led ways.
These aren’t just places to get food.
They’re places of dignity, connection, and hope.
8 Jul 2025
Teesside, Durham and Newcastle Universities, the National Trust, local authorities and community organisations are working together to create three green corridors in the region.
17 Jun 2025

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about:
We develop solutions that shape the future, today
We've invested £280m in our friendly town campus at the heart of Middlesbrough.
Teesside University generates and applies knowledge that contributes to the economic, social and cultural success of students, partners and the communities we serve.
Through education enriched by research, innovation, and engagement with business and the professions, we transform lives and economies.
View our mission
At Teesside University we believe that innovation powers our steps to create a world where everyone benefits from progress.
More about Ambition Delivered Today
Discover Teesside University London at Here East in Stratford.
More about Teesside University London

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/achievements.cfm:
We are proud to have been crowned Modern University of the Year 2026, in the Daily Mail University Guide.
This award celebrates our bold, student-first approach to learning, teaching, and transforming lives and communities.
Find out more about being Modern University of the Year 2026
We are proud to have been awarded an overall gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
This means that the student experience and outcomes that we deliver are typically outstanding.
Find out more about being gold-rated in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF)
Teesside University is ranked in the 801-1000 band of global universities in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2020 .
These include almost 1,400 universities across 92 countries, standing as the largest and most diverse university rankings ever to date.
Teesside University was ranked in the 301-350 band of 539 global universities in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2022 .
Teesside ranked 1st in the UK and 3rd globally for 'Overall Average' satisfaction.
(Score equates to 91.3%, or 3rd globally out of 137 institutions, and 1st in the UK out of 35 institutions).
The International Student Barometer 2023 survey collected 1,682 responses to the ISB from Teesside University international students.
Tibal Group website Find out more about our ISB results
Teesside is one of only a few universities in the UK to have been awarded the nationally recognised Customer First accreditation for its services to business.
This is the eighth time that Teesside has received the Customer First standard, which lasts for two years.
Each time it is reaccredited, the University must demonstrate how it has continuously improved.
Accredited with Investors in People Gold status, the international standard for people management; defining what it takes to lead, support and manage people effectively to achieve sustainable results.
Achieved for the fourth time in 2021, following assessment against the sixth generation of Investors in People, which includes a significant raising of standards.
The University's commitment to equality and diversity has been recognised in the influential annual Stonewall UK Workplace Equality Index (WEI).
Teesside University has achieved a Gold award, which is the highest award, and ranked 8th in the Stonewall Top 100 Employers for 2024.
Teesside University has achieved Disability Confident Leader status, an accreditation which reinforces our commitment to recruiting, retaining and developing disabled staff across the institution and recognition of the value disabled staff bring to the University.
The North East Better Health at Work Award recognises the efforts of local employers in addressing health issues within the workplace and recognises the achievements of the University in promoting healthy lifestyles and considering the health of our employees.
The University has achieved the Maintaining Excellence award – the highest of the four levels.
Teesside is a proud member of the Athena Swan Charter and has bronze award status.
Membership is open to higher education institutions that are committed to the employment of women in STEMM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Medicine and Mathematics) and also to the advancement of their careers.
More about Athena Swan
The University has retained the European Commission’s HR in Excellence in Research Award following a two year self-assessment.
The award is given to organisations which can demonstrate a robust and public implementation strategy of improving the career development of researchers.
The UK process incorporates both the QAA Quality Code for Higher Education and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
The UK approach includes ongoing national evaluation and benchmarking.
Teesside University is a signatory to the Race at Work Charter , committed to taking clear action to ensure that ethnic minority employees are represented at all levels in the organisation.
Teesside University has achieved Gold status from EcoCampus – the leading environmental management system and award scheme for the higher and further education sectors.
The EcoCampus gold award sits alongside the University’s Carbon Trust Standard, an award that is given to organisations who strive to measure, manage and reduce carbon emissions across their own operations.
Teesside University is proud to be a signatory to the Charter for Employers Positive about Mental Health .
It represents a public declaration of our commitment to support the mental wellbeing of our colleagues, by following the values set out by the Mindful employer charter.
The Positive Allies charter shows that we are a University that is friendly towards, and inclusive of, people living with HIV and that we actively challenge HIV stigma.
Teesside is the first University outside of London to achieve Visibly Better Employer .
To gain the accreditation the University demonstrated  its commitment to becoming an inclusive employer for blind and partially sighted people.
This means that you can be confident that the recruitment process will be fair and inclusive.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/schools_departments.cfm:
Please note, this is not an exhaustive list of the supporting departments at Teesside University.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/visiting/middlesbrough_region.cfm:
One of the country's best kept secrets.
Tees Valley is the perfect place to explore countryside and coast.
Take on adventure activities and water sports.
Discover pretty market towns and picturesque villages.
Uncover a proud industrial heritage and marvel at unexpected nature and wildlife that call the Tees Valley home.
Stockton Arts Centre offers comedy, drama, dance, visual arts, music, poetry and exhibitions.
Student discounts are widely available.
Completed in 1993, the Bottle of Notes is one of the magnificent pieces of public art in Middlesbrough.
Middlesbrough Central Library, a Carnegie library, recently turned 100.
Its Reference Library is a gorgeous space to visit.
With 8 galleries and 3 exhibition spaces, there's something for everyone and plenty of hands-on activities, objects and children's trails.
Temporary exhibition galleries and regular holiday events.
Venture into the original 1840s railway station and explore the platform, which still has its original footbridge and admire four historic locomotives.
An engaging space to explore the history of Teesside in creative ways.
An iconic sculpture by Anish Kapoor and Cecil Balmond, standing almost 50 metres high and 120 metres long.
A theatre with an exciting and varied repertoire of drama and theatre activities (previously known as the Little Theatre).
A beautiful 18th century mansion with park, gardens and a permanent model railway exhibition.
A gallery dedicated to innovative developments in contemporary art through its diverse programme of exhibitions
Platform Arts occupies newly constructed purpose built studios within Middlesbrough Railway Station.
An exhibition and events venue with a changing programme of events.
The longest working transporter bridge and one of the UK's major sites for extreme sports including abseils and zip-slides.
Exploring the life and times of Middlesbrough's most famous son and his voyages of discovery.
Catch a concert or comedy show, make your way to world-famous musicals or scare yourself silly with the Hippodrome's haunting backstage ghost tours.
Marvel at inspiring exhibitions and amazing art displays.
The gallery has two exhibition spaces and a creatively diverse programme.
Jam-packed entertainment with something for everyone.
Rock to live bands, enjoy classical music and even catch a comedy show or two.
MIMA is an international Plus TATE gallery that is now part of Teesside University.
It is one of the UK's leading galleries for modern and contemporary art and craft, offering gallery space to our students and enabling links with national and international artists and institutions.
Gateways to the Yorkshire Dales: Swaledale, Wensleydale and, beyond them, the Howgills, with their drystone walls, sheep and dairy farming, and empty moorlands.
Explore the breathtaking, unexpected panoramic views of this huge wetland.
Close to Middlesbrough with great architecture, top surf, a Victorian pier, stunning beach and there are plenty of independent shops.
One of the largest expanses of heather moorland in the UK along with its spectacular coast, ancient woodland and historic sites.
Its steam railway runs from Pickering to Grosmont and Whitby.
Goathland was home to Hogsmeade station in the film Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and Aidensfield in TV's Heartbeat.
A pretty fishing port set among cliffs and was part of the inspiration for Bram Stoker's Dracula.
North of Middlesbrough is the historic quay at Hartlepool - see HMS Trincomalee and a restored maritime village.
The perfect place to embrace the great outdoors with a wide range of walking and cycling routes for all ages and abilities.
Enjoy a fun seaside experience, take to the sandy beach, tuck into fresh woodfired pizza and snap a selfie in front of the brightly coloured beach huts.
Head to Redcar Beacon for spectacular sea views, pick up fresh fish and chips at the seafront and try the region's famous lemon top ice cream.
Redcar seafront offers a new vertical pier, the world's oldest surviving lifeboat and one of the locations for the film Atonement.
Retail park boasting big high street names like GAME, River Island, JD Sports and more.
Also visit the cinema, bowling alley and restaurants including Nando's and Five Guys.
Visit Baker and Bedford Street for an emerging collection of homegrown, independent retailers or Linthorpe Road to browse designer boutiques.
Explore the award-winning High Street in Yarm's pretty market town.
Browse independent stores and designer boutiques lining the cobbled streets.
Treat your tastebuds to the Tees Valley's thriving foodie scene with independent eateries serving everything from authentic oriental dishes, satisfying soul food, good vegan grub and Michelin-starred cuisine.
Fill up on unmissable street food and explore artisan stalls at unmissable foodie events including Orange Pip Market, Darlington Food Festival and Saltburn Food Festival.
Enjoy 100 acres of quiet green space just a stone's throw from the University with the free 5km parkrun every Saturday morning.
Or try Stewart Park, just a couple of miles away.
A popular, multi-award-winning visitor destination surrounded by a cosmopolitan mix of bistros, bars, cafes and restaurants.
Set within 39 acres of open parkland just five miles from Middlesbrough town centre.
This £18m development on nearby Marton Road includes an IAAF athletics stadium, cycling velodrome, outdoor track, skatepark, court sports, 4G pitches and more.
Plus plans for a £30m snow centre nearer the centre of town.
Middlesbrough Football Club (Boro) has played at the Riverside Stadium since 1995, their third ground since turning professional in 1889.
Distinctive and iconic landmark with fine views across North Yorkshire and Cleveland.
A forest walk in the Valley Gardens gives access to the Italian Gardens and leads on to the railway viaduct.
120 acres with woodland, lakes, an extensive pet corner, the Captain Cook Birthplace Museum and much more.
Visit one of England's best golf courses at Rockliffe Hall as well as other top-quality courses whatever your handicap or experience.
Named in the top 10 places to surf in the UK.
Brush up on your surfer skills or learn something new with Flow Surf School or Saltburn Surf School.
A great day out for adrenaline hunters and thrill seekers looking to hit the water.
Middlesbrough is home to a multitude of celebrated micro pubs, serving the finest locally brewed and sourced ales.
Hosting a wide ranging entertainment programme from classical music to pop and rock, comedy and more.
Partly pedestrianised, Southfield Road runs through the campus and offers plenty of student-focused bars and pubs, and outdoor drinking and dining spaces.
A multi-award-winning social space for students - it was Best Bar None in 2014 and was shortlisted for the National Union of Students' Higher Education Students' Union of the Year 2014.
Recent DJs include Mark Ronson, Roger Sanchez, Fat Boy Slim and Erick Morillo.
Indie and live music nights feature heavily too - Bullet for my Valentine, Arctic Monkeys and Toots & the Maytals.
Find fabulous micro pubs and listen to live music in a collection of independent bars and eateries including The Twisted Lip and The Nuthatch.
Bringing the world's biggest names in music and comedy to Stockton.
Experience everything from belly-laughing comedy to West End musicals.
Large-scale concerts from some of the biggest names in music come to fill the Riverside Stadium and Darlington Arena.
Previous acts include Take That, The Killers, Jess Glynne and Olly Murs.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/visiting/campustour.cfm:
We've invested £280m in our friendly town campus at the heart of Middlesbrough
We're committed to providing an outstanding student experience and a big part of this is our campus and facilities.
If you can't make it to an open day, take a look at what you can expect here at Teesside University.
We might just surprise you.
Take a tour of our campus and see for yourself how everything is within walking distance.
Get to know our campus.
Here you have access to one of the country's best teaching and learning environments in all digital aspects of computing, design and media.
Benefit from a convergent newsroom, broadcast news studios, multimedia publishing, 3D modelling studios and computing suites.
Introducing Bios, our £36.9m facility for science and clinical subjects.
It houses four floors of high-quality facilities, including cutting-edge super labs, immersive simulation suites, and replicas of both home and hospital settings.
A landmark development linking North and South sides of the campus creating an iconic central focus and a vibrant, flexible and enjoyable all-year-round outdoor space.
The Campus Heart has hosted a variety of events and activities, such as artisan food markets, market stalls, Tour de Yorkshire, the Christmas reindeer parade and graduation celebrations.
Centuria is home to our School of Health & Life Sciences.
It's modern with large lecture theatres and extensive seminar rooms and open-access IT labs.
There's also plenty of specialist equipment and simulated practice environments – including replica operating theatres and a real ambulance.
Centuria South houses health, dental education and sports therapy, providing state-of-the-art facilities and learning for students.
You can also find our hydrotherapy pool, used by Olympians, Paralympians and elite athletes here on campus – as well as students of course.
The Curve is our iconic, five-storey teaching building.
It's got a big lecture theatre, lots of seminar rooms and flexible teaching and learning spaces.
You might visit the Curve for your classes – or maybe just pop in to café 79 for a hot drink and a snack.
Take a tour of The Curve
Digital Life offers future-focused, hands-on learning in professional-grade environments.
Students access industry-standard facilities from day one – developing skills in areas such as AI, cloud computing, robotics, immersive media, cybersecurity and game design.
Specialist labs mirror real-world studios and workplaces, supporting collaboration, experimentation and innovation.
From virtual production to digital twins, cloud apps to motion capture, these spaces equip learners with practical experience, technical confidence and portfolio-ready work that meets the needs of tomorrow’s industries.
Following a £2.75m investment, our gym puts health and wellbeing at the heart of campus and university life.
It provides state-of-the-art cardio and resistance fitness and free weights areas, a sprint track, multipurpose studios for classes and a specialist treatment area.
Whether you want to pound the treadmills or find peace of mind through yoga, it's a great space for some much needed 'you' time.
More about sport at Teesside
Enjoy our bright, modern, technologically-enabled environment with spaces to suit all learning styles.
We offer places for group work and discussion, individual and silent study areas, as well as a café serving hot drinks and food.
Benefit from access to 145m learning resources, including 490,000 ebooks, 97,000 ejournals and over 200 databases to find the latest research.
You can access electronic resources from your own home.
Our library is also open 24/7 so we're equipped for night-owls too.
Go to the Library website
Olympia combines excellent teaching facilities and sport science labs with modern sport, wellbeing and fitness facilities.
You can also find an environmental chamber, biomechanics and physiology labs, a floodlit artificial turf pitch, squash courts, climbing wall and a large sports hall for major tournaments.
Orion and Stephenson are part of our School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies.
We've recently invested £6m to expand, upgrade and refurbish the facilities here.
We offer high-tech industry-standard equipment including a flight simulation lab, a full-size aircraft for physical and load testing, a vehicle examination lab and a power system simulator lab.
The Phoenix building is home to our industry-facing Business School, offering modern facilities to enhance student learning and collaboration.
Our £13.2m Student Life building brings all student-facing services together under one roof and has been designed to further improve the student experience and promote well-being.
Take a look inside.
The Students' Union offers everything to help you through student life – from advice and support, social spaces, clubs and societies, a shop, places to eat, the Terrace Bar, The Hub nightclub, and a jobs service to help you find part-time work.
Now home to our fashion and textile studios, this Gothic former grammar school is one of the oldest buildings on our campus, dating back to 1877.
It was designed by Alfred Waterhouse, best known for designing London's Natural History Museum and Manchester Town Hall.
The rooms have been reorganised to suit classes and practical workshops, but the quirky doors and corridors remain part of its charm.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news:
Welcome to Teesside University's Media Centre
In the face of rising inequality, deepening disadvantage and the complex social and economic challenges facing many of our communities in the North East, one thing is certain: no school or institution can solve these issues alone.
It takes collective effort, and place-based collaboration, to facilitate authentic and sustainable change.
Julia Rockliffe is an accomplished Programme Manager who leads the sustainability training partnership with Teesside University.
The goal of this is to ensure that much needed green skills training courses are developed and made available to businesses.
Julia has a wealth of experience within sustainability, managing a number of UK Government climate change mitigation programmes, green homes initiatives, as well as acting as a local food growth champion.
Here she explains how new short courses, developed in partnership with Teesside University, can help businesses meet COP29 targets.
More insights
23/02/2023 Simon McKeown
Artist David Hockney has ridden many technological waves.
While his mark-making has remained resolutely painterly, he has challenged the practice of painting.
He was an early adopter of computer-assisted drawing, using the iPad and iPhone.
01/02/2023 Nathan Liddle
So you’re out for a leisurely jog and everything is going great – until you start to feel pain.
That distinctive, shooting pain, up your shin.
Even when you stop running, every time you put weight on your foot soreness shoots up your lower leg.
There’s little doubt: you’ve got shin splints.
05/12/2022 Christopher Massey
The UK government is battening down the hatches for a wave of strikes in December and January.
Railway workers, nurses, ambulance workers, civil servants and postal staff are all set to take industrial action in the coming weeks in protest at wages not keeping up with inflation, with teachers’ and firefighters’ unions also balloting their members.
More conversation
Teesside University has a proud history of learning and teaching stretching back over 90 years.
Officially opened as Constantine Technical College to support Middlesbrough's booming engineering and shipping industries in 1930, the college became a polytechnic in 1969 and then one of 14 new universities approved by the Privy Council in 1992.
View more about us
The communications team is responsible for the University's news and is the first point of contact for all media enquiries.
View the key contacts

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/london.cfm:
Teaching is compressed into two full days, and undergraduate students will study one module at a time.
Here East is a contemporary, vibrant, and modern campus which is part of Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
The campus has been designed with industry and employers as an environment where industry professionals and academics can come together.
Discover Teesside University London

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/mission.cfm:
Building on the success of Teesside 2020, the new Corporate Strategy: Ambition Delivered Today, sets out a bold future for the institution over the next five years, driving academic achievement and delivering excellence for our students, partners and society.
The strategy will position Teesside as a high-performing global university anchored in the Tees Valley, inspiring confidence in our community and providing learning opportunities for all.
Teesside will be a leading University with an international reputation for academic excellence that provides an outstanding student and learning experience underpinned by research, enterprise and the professions.
At Teesside University we seek to enhance the experience of all our students, staff and external partners by:
Our Values and Behaviours framework supports how we work together towards the achievement of our aims and objectives.
Teesside University’s commitment to our students, staff and communities is absolute.
Plugged into civic society and driving positive social impact, our local footprint – extending from the Business School in the campus heart to MIMA in Middlesbrough town centre and the National Horizons Centre in Darlington – provides a vital network of facilities, experience and expertise, all of which will play an important role in the regeneration of our local ecosystem.
Our global position will allow us to develop important relationships with key markets, exercising our international soft power and positioning ourselves as the gateway for regional economic success.
Our ambitions to deliver positive change and operate as a responsible and ethical organisation are set out in the Teesside University Charter for Social Impact.
The Charter Framework encapsulates our mission-driven work to progress social mobility, to ensure equality, diversity and inclusion, to galvanise the regional economy and to deliver impactful research.
Download Teesside 2027 (pdf - 2mb)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/jobs:
The University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive culture - a place where we can all be ourselves and succeed on merit.
We offer a range of family friendly, inclusive employment policies, flexible working arrangements, staff focus groups, campus facilities and services to support staff from different backgrounds.
The more inclusive we are, the better we will be.
I've recently started working at Teesside and I've found the campus to be very welcoming and accommodating.
I work in the catering department and it's amazing how much thought is given to the many different cultures here, and reassuring students we can cater for their needs and make their University experience a happy and positive one .
Deborah Lowe , Catering and Hospitality (The Garden), Campus Services
I feel privileged to be a part of Team Teesside because it's a community like no other.
You are working collectively to achieve a common goal which makes your work truly valued.
There’s a sense of pride and belonging that comes with being part of Team Teesside.
Demi Falshaw, Student Adviser (Mental Health and Autism), Student & Library Services
Team Teesside has given me the opportunity for me to work somewhere for over 20 years, with talented friends who want the best for the each other, the University, the town and the region.
There’s nowhere else I’d rather work and no other colleagues would could compare.
Long may it continue.
Sarah Smith, Marketing Co-ordinator, Student Recruitment & Marketing
I'm new to Teesside but have worked in HE for many years.
I know that if all staff, no matter their role, have a passion to deliver a fantastic student experience our students will feel this and benefit from it.
I've found this shared passion at TU - this is Team Teesside.
Dr Nicola Watchman Smith, Deputy Director Student Learning, Student Learning & Academic Registry

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni:
Be part of our growing global alumni community, with over 150,000 Teesside University graduates worldwide.
Graduates from Teesside University span the globe.
The Alumni Association gives you the opportunity to access a number of services.
Take a look at out Alumni news.
We continue to benefit from the generosity our supporters who give their time, money and expertise to our causes
Each year we confer honorary awards upon individuals.
Take a look at out Alumni events.
23 Jul 2025
Teesside's alumni magazine keeps you in touch with the University and your fellow graduates.
View 2023 magazine View previous editions
alumni@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/stay_connected.cfm:
Become part of our growing global alumni community, with over 150,000 Teesside University graduates worldwide.
Home › Alumni › Stay connected
Update your details to remain a connected part of Teesside's global graduate community
There are many ways you can get involved and support your Teesside network
Let your classmates know where life has taken you since graduation.
You're a valued member of the Teesside University community, and we would like to keep in touch with you.
Help us contact you in the ways you would prefer by updating your contact preferences.
Join us on Teesside Alumni Instagram for all the very latest from your global graduate community
Read more about the Graduate Outcomes Survey

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/services.cfm:
Home › Alumni › Benefits & Services

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/hon_grads.cfm:
Nominate an honorary graduate
Home › Alumni › Honorary graduates
174 graduates listed
Sadly now deceased.
Robert was the former President of Slippery Rock University in the United States where he established dozens of international partnerships.
His personal involvement and commitment has seen hundreds of staff and students gain immeasurably from living and working in different cultures.
A pioneer in the move to open up access to higher education, Beverley is a well-known figure in educational circles.
As a freelance broadcaster, she has presented numerous television and radio programmes including Sixty Minutes and Horizon.
Sandy Anderson was, until January this year, Chair of the University Board of Governors.
He is Chair of Tees Valley Local Enterprise Partnership and among many other roles, former Senior Vice-President (Technology), ICI, and former Chair of DigitalCity, Ensus UK and Teesside Tomorrow.
Alistair is a successful businessman with an involvement in a variety of local enterprises, including OneNorth East and the Tees Valley Partnership.
He is Chairman of New Century Enterprises.
He also has a number of non-executive directorships including Chairman of Steelite International PLC and is an active Business Angel with both Hotspur and Seraphim Development Capital.
He is a Director of the British Business Angels Association.
Trevor Arnold is the former Managing Director of Thornaby-based K Home International where he spent 21 years securing contracts for Teesside.
These contracts included the development of an 800-bed hospital in Abu Dhabi, as well as work on Dubai’s Atlantis Hotel – the world’s second seven-star hotel.
Trevor saw the company win two Queen’s Awards for outstanding achievement in international trade.
Jane is Operations Director at Cape plc and former Vice-President (Utilities) of Sembcorp.
In 2004, she became the first woman in the world to manage a blast furnace – the Corus cast house at Redcar – and she was also only the second woman in the world to have ever managed a coke oven.
Jane has been named the Confederation of British Industry’s (CBI) "First Woman" and she is currently a member of the University’s science and engineering advisory board.
Steve Bagshaw started his career as a graduate Chemical Engineer at UMIST (Manchester) and went on to ICI, Zeneca, Avecia and MSD, in the UK and US.
Steve has over 35 years’ experience across the biotechnologies and fine chemicals business and manufacturing sectors.
He was CEO for six years at Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies.
He previously led the UK business, based in Billingham, for seven years.
Steve is currently with the UK Government’s Vaccine Task Force as an Industry Adviser.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of CPI and member of the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council.
Steve is working with Teesside University’s National Horizons Centre and York University’s BioYorkshire initiative as an industrial advisory lead.
Entrepreneur Duncan was part of BBC2’s Dragons' Den for ten years after the show first screened in January 2005, where he was one of the five venture capitalists willing to invest their own money in aspiring entrepreneurs' pitches in exchange for equity.
Born in Clydebank, Scotland, Duncan began his entrepreneurial life by car trading, but an ice cream van purchased for £450 changed the direction of his life.
He eventually sold the business for £28,000, founding a nursing home business which he then sold for £46 million.
He has since expanded into health clubs with the popular Bannatyne's chain, and also owns bars, hotels and property.
In 2004, he was awarded an OBE for his services to business and charity.
Before becoming a novelist Pat taught History and British Constitution at a further education college in the North East.
She has a powerful record of achievement in her field, was one of 20 Best Young Novelists in 1983 and runner up for the Guardian Fiction Prize.
Her novels have a strong sense of place, which is often recognisably Middlesbrough.
Richard Barker is Chairman of furniture company Barker & Stonehouse.
He joined the company (co-founded by his father) in 1960 and, under his leadership, it has grown to be a major national employer and a leading retailer in its field.
It is the largest family-owned furniture company in the UK.
Thelma is fondly remembered throughout the UK for her role as Mavis Riley in Coronation Street, whom she played for nearly 2,000 episodes over 26 years.
Her next major role after Coronation Street was Dolly Bellfield in Victoria Wood’s Dinnerladies, a role that was written specifically for her.
Thelma has also appeared in Fat Friends, The Royal, Marple and Midsomer Murders.
Last year she appeared as the villainous Lady Thaw in Doctor Who and in 2005 she appeared in her first film Mrs Henderson Presents and was nominated for Most Promising Newcomer in the British Independent Film Awards.
John is President and Chief Executive Officer of US-based global design consultancy TEAGUE.
John studied at what was Teesside Polytechnic, graduating in 1988 with a BA (Hons) Three Dimensional Design – Industrial Design.
He dedicates his time to building on TEAGUE’s heritage, strengthening partnerships with some of the world's leading brands including Intel, Starbucks, Boeing and Samsung and pushing TEAGUE’s longstanding mission ‘to build a new and better world’ into the 21st century.
Trevor was the inventor of the world famous clockwork radio, which was featured on Tomorrow's World in 1994.
The clock's potential was recognised by Christopher Staines, and Roy Steer, who jointly acquired funding to set up Power Industries in Cape Town, employing disabled workers to manufacture Trevor's creation.
Les was attributed with being the man who almost single-handedly introduced the concept of convenience stores into Teesside.
A leading public figure on the Teesside business scene, Les' other offices included President of Teesside TEC, Director of Teesside Tomorrow and Patron of the Cleveland Community Foundation.
Steve's artistic career began at Teesside College of Art & Design.
He began work as a graphic designer for ICI and then went to Leeds for a Fine Art degree but it was on Teesside that he first developed the radicalism and artistic skills that helped him become one of the most effective contemporary cartoonists in Britain.
Mark Benton is an actor known for many roles including Early Doors, Northern Lights and Barbara.
He has recently toured the UK with Hairspray the Musical and made his dancing debut on BBC's Strictly Come Dancing.
Mark comes from Grangetown.
Baroness Blatch was Parliamentary Under Secretary of State in both the Departments of Education and Environment.
She was a regular visitor to the region and was the former Minister with special responsibilities for overseeing government programmes on Teesside.
Paul Booth started his career as an apprentice with ICI, going on to lead a global career in the chemical industry at companies such as Huntsman Petrochemicals and SABIC UK.
Over the years, Paul has also undertaken a range of influential non-executive positions, and has been a driving force for regional economic development, undertaking pivotal positions at the Tees Valley Local Enterprise Partnership and acting as an ambassador for the region at the national level.
Asa went to Cambridge University where he gained First Class degrees in History and Economics.
He returned to academic life after the Second World War and was the first historian to devote serious attention to the history of Middlesbrough in his book Victorian Cities (1963).
Lady Diana Brittan has championed fairness, justice and equality through her career in a range of influential public roles.
From joining the City of London bench as a magistrate in the 1980s, she went on to lead the Equal Opportunities Commission as Deputy Chair, and the National Lottery Community Fund as Chair.
She has also undertaken other notable positions throughout her career including Chair of the Runnymede Trust, Trustee of the Open University Foundation, and Trustee and former Chair of Rathbone Training.
A long-time advocate and supporter of scholarships at Teesside University, Lady Brittan continues to dedicate her time to support vulnerable people through a homelessness charity for women in south London, whilst also championing education programmes through philanthropy.
Lord Brittan was the first ever Chancellor of the University of Teesside from 1993 to 2005.
He was Vice-Chairman of UBS Investment Bank and previously served as European Commissioner following a distinguished parliamentary career.
Lord Brittan was elected to the House of Commons in 1974 as Member of Parliament for Cleveland & Whitby and in 1983 for Richmond.
He served as Minister of State at the Home Office, Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Home Secretary and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
Lord Brittan was knighted in 1989 and became a life peer in 2000.
Moira was Chief Executive of the Tees and North Yorkshire NHS Trust from 1999 to 2006.
She was awarded the OBE in 2003 and served as Chair of the County Durham and Tees Valley Workforce Development Confederation.
She also served as a member of the Executive Group of the National Mental Health Partnership.
In 2006 she won the Kate Smythe ‘Making a Difference Award’ from the National Mental Health Partnership.
Roy was Deputy Chief Executive of the Tees Valley Training & Enterprise Council and also Director of Lifelong Learning, he has made a key contribution to education and training achievement in the Tees Valley.
Ray was Dean of Computing & Mathematics at the University when it gained its ‘Excellent’ grading for teaching Computer Science – he’s one of the best known names in Higher Education computing.
Howard Burch is a renowned television producer, who is behind many television shows and films.
He has been a Drama Executive at Channel 4 and is presently Executive Producer at Kudos.
His television credits include Spooks, Hustle, Ashes to Ashes, Moving Wallpaper and Echo Beach and film credits include Pure starring Kiera Knightley.
Howard is a great supporter and contributor to the School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies.
Graeme is an alumnus of the University, graduating with a BSc Chemical Engineering.
He is Senior Vice-President Fuel Optimisation of Delta Air Lines with responsibility for Delta's global jet fuel supply as well as the integration of the Monroe Refinery into the Delta supply chain.
He was previously Senior Vice-President of Total Petrochemicals.
Graeme is one of the most influencial people in his field.
David was a leading political analyst and Professor of Politics at Ruskin College, Oxford.
A prolific publisher, he was involved in the study of every general election since 1952.
He was made a CBE in 1991 and was a fellow of the British Academy in 1994.
Mary was the founder of Butterwick Hospice Care Trust, which she set up after her husband, John, died of a brain tumour in 1979.
It was the North East's first hospice and brought palliative care to Teesside and led to a purpose built hospice being constructed.
Mary won various accolades including the Tees Valley Woman of Achievement award, Freedom of the Borough of Stockton on Tees and an OBE in 2003.
Jim was a leading global academic in mathematical modelling.
He gained his PhD here and also his Doctor of Science (our most senior academic award).
He has worked both in industry and academia and was made an Honorary Professor of the Open University of Hong Kong.
Middlesbrough-born Elizabeth trained as an actress with the National Youth Theatre which led to extensive theatre and television work, including Boon, Goodnight Sweetheart and Barbara.
Sir Peter started his working life as a carpenter and went on to Chair the North East Strategic Health Authority until October 2011, when it was re-shaped under government reforms.
He has held the Chairmanship of NHS organisations in the region since 1990.
Sir Peter has now been appointed to the Chairmanship of a new national NHS organisation.
From 1984 to 1990 he was head of the Government City Action team in the North East.
Prior to that he held a senior position in the diplomatic service.
Sir Peter was a founding director of the conciliation service ACAS and has served in various government bodies, including as Director of the Commission on Industrial Relations, and as a special adviser to the pay body NBPI.
Bob was born in the Tees Valley and began a career in horse racing at 15.
In 1979 he was diagnosed with cancer and given eight months to live.
He fought the cancer and his determination paid off when in 1981 he won the Grand National riding Aldaniti.
His story was fictionalised in the 1983 film Champions in which he was portrayed by John Hurt.
Bob retired from racing in 1983 having won some 500 races and in the same year received the MBE.
He founded the Bob Champion Cancer Trust, which to date has raised over £13 million for cancer research.
Teesside graduate and internationally successful opera singer Suzannah has made numerous major public appearances and is Company Principal with English National Opera.
In 2002 she was made Ambassador for Middlesbrough.
George Clarke is an award-winning architect, designer, business owner and television presenter, known for a plethora of successful TV series including Restoration Man and George Clarke’s Amazing Spaces.
George has also founded his own education charity, ‘MOBIE’, which aims to inspire young people to create sustainable homes for their future and has engaged students at Teesside University in design challenges for a number of years.
An ambassador for the Prince’s Foundation as well as the homeless charity Shelter, George is passionate about good quality housing and is an active campaigner in the fight against the global housing crisis.
Born in Middlesbrough, Brian played football for Middlesbrough, Sunderland and England during his career.
Brian was also an outstanding manager of Hartlepool United, Derby County, Brighton & Hove Albion and Nottingham Forest football teams.
He spent 18 years managing Nottingham Forest, winning the European Cup twice.
Teesside graduate Steve Cochrane is the managing director of Psyche, the internationally renowned designer clothing store, first founded in 1982.
The Psyche store is based in central Middlesbrough and has established an expanding global customer base, gaining customers in the USA, Japan and Australia.
Steve has an unreserved commitment to the Tees Valley, as shown by his investment in Middlesbrough.
Katherine learned to row on the River Tees at just 14.
In 2011 she won a gold medal at the U23 World Championships with a world record time before being one of the first ever British women to win a rowing gold medal at an Olympic Games.
She has since broken the world record in the lightweight double scull, won several gold medals at the World Rowing Cup series, a silver medal at the World Championships in 2015 and represented Team GB in Rio in 2016.
The County Durham actress, author and TV presenter is most well known for TV comedy favourites such as And Mother Makes Five and Butterflies or more recently in ITV's new adaptation of The Forsythe Saga.
Her career spans West End productions and film roles, and Wendy has written seven children's albums and several Christmas songs.
Baron Crathorne is Lord Lieutenant of North Yorkshire and member of the House of Lords, where he is a member of the Works of Art Committee.
Among many external roles he is the Chairman of Trustees of the Captain Cook Birthplace Museum and Chairman of the Lord Chancellor's Advisory Committee on Justices of the Peace, North Yorkshire.
Since winning the string section of the first BBC Young Musician of the Year competition, Caroline has worked in a variety of musical genres from solo classical performances worldwide to pop collaborations with Sinead O'Connor and Simply Red.
Caroline also provided the music for the film Hilary and Jackie, playing all of Jacqueline Du Pre's pieces.
After an apprenticeship as an electrician, Wally sought fame in London's theatre land and worked as a stage manager and actor before deciding he was more suited to writing.
He produced over 100 plays for radio and television as well as 30 sitcoms and episodes for Casualty and Byker Grove.
Alan comes from Billingham.
He was appointed Chief Executive of the Arts Council England in 2007.
Prior to this he was Director for Culture at the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, having previously worked in the Department as Head of the Arts Division.
Alan is a passionate advocate of the role of art in university and public life.
Maurice Dawson was chairman of AV Dawson Ltd, specialists in logistics, transport and freight.
Maurice’s father founded the company in 1938, in central Middlesbrough.
Maurice became managing director in 1971, and grew the company over four decades.
AV Dawson Ltd now employs 240 people and has built award-winning facilities at Dawson’s Wharf on Teesside.
Monica is a Middlesbrough-born actor and writer.
She is perhaps best known for her role as straight-talking Senior Comms Officer Tracey Pritchard in W1A, but has also starred in a number of films including Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa, The Falling, The Arbor and Eye in the Sky.
Her solo play, The B*easts, found critical and audience acclaim at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 2017 where it won the Stage Edinburgh Award, before transferring for a successful run at the Bush Theatre, London, attaining an Olivier nomination in 2018 and, more recently, a nomination for the South Bank Sky Arts Award 2018 for Breakthrough Talent.
Monica’s most notable role was as killer Rosemary West in ITV’s 2011 drama Appropriate Adult, where she won the BAFTA for Best Supporting Actress.
Teesside-born, Sir Liam has been the Department of Health’s Chief Medical Officer since 1998.
He was previously Regional Director and Director of Public Health, Northern and Yorks NHS Executive.
He received a knighthood in 2002.
Skin is the lead singer of popular rock band Skunk Anansie, known for hits including Hedonism and Weak.
She also released her debut solo album Fleshwounds in 2003 and now hosts The Skin Show on Absolute Radio.
Skin graduated from Teesside Polytechnic in 1989 with a BA (Hons) degree in Interior Architecture and Design.
Teesside-born actress Elizabeth is a regular face on our TV screens as Woolpack landlady Diane Sugden in Emmerdale.
She has made many TV appearances throughout her career including Carol Boswell in the 1970s sitcom The Liver Birds and her diverse stage work includes a year in London’s West End as Shirley Valentine.
Elizabeth was Director of the Victoria and Albert Museum where she instituted several successful exhibitions as well as expanding the museum’s education role and creating the Research Department.
She was made a Dame in June 1995.
A renowned journalist, publisher and editor, Harold had a prolific career in journalism including posts from Editor of the Darlington-based Northern Echo to Editorial Director and Vice-Chairman of the New York Daily News.
Rona Fairhead is Chairman of the BBC Trust.
She is a Cambridge and Harvard Business School graduate and a non-executive director of HSBC.
Rona spent many years working in the Tees Valley as executive vice-president for Strategy and Finance of ICI.
Margaret is Chairman of the Regional Development Agency One NorthEast.
Before joining One NorthEast, she had a 22-year career with Tyne Tees Television, including six years as Managing Director.
Margaret is also a former member of the University’s Board of Governors.
Based in County Durham, children’s author Anne was the Children’s Laureate 2001-03 and has held the Carnegie Medal and the Publishing News Children’s Author of the Year and received the Whitbread Award in 1993 and 1997.
Her 1987 novel Madame Doubtfire was adapted for the big-screen as Mrs Doubtfire starring Robin Williams and her book, Goggle-Eyes, was adapted for BBC children's television.
John had an outstanding record of public service in the Tees Valley, having served as Chief Executive of Middlesbrough Council, Chair of South Tees Hospitals Acute NHS Trust and as a Governor of the University of Teesside.
He served as a board member of the Housing Corporation and of many public bodies and charities.
He retired as University Visitor in March 2008.
The Senior Circuit Judge and Recorder of Middlesbrough is a highly eminent member of the legal profession who has served the community of Teesside for many years.
A previous Vice Chancellor of the University and now Emeritus Professor.
Professor Fraser served both the University and the Tees Valley community for ten years and presided over the £60m transformation of the campus which resulted in the University in its present form.
Born in South Bank, Middlesbrough, Vin’s career as a musician began in 1963, aged 15, when he first sang in Teesside folk clubs.
He was Teesside's roving ambassador of folk music for nearly 30 years, performing in the Unites States, Canada and Europe.
The people and culture of Teesside and North Yorkshire largely inspired his songs.
Born in Redcar, Jane was the author of many novels and collections of short stories, both for children and adults.
Her novel, The Queen of the Tambourine, won her the 1991 Whitbread Best Novel of the Year.
Other novels include God on the Rocks, which was televised in 1992 and The Flight of the Maidens.
John is Emeritus Professor of the First Year Experience Centre at the University of South Carolina, USA.
He is a long standing collaborator with the University through a partnership which gives the University's students the opportunity to take part in an annual student exchange scheme.
Tees Valley educated Shiulie’s career in journalism began at local radio station BBC Radio Cleveland.
She is now Home Affairs Editor of ITV news and in 2001 won the BT Emma Best Television News Journalist Award.
Steve Gibson is Chairman of Middlesbrough Football Club.
Steve's successes at the club include visiting Wembley three times and creating the new 35,000+ Cellnet Riverside Stadium.
He is also a successful international businessman.
The highly eminent sculptor and installation artist is the creator of Gateshead’s the Angel of the North, which was fabricated in the Tees Valley.
Antony was awarded the Turner Prize in 1994 and an OBE in 1998.
Professor Charles Greenough is Consultant in Orthopaedics at South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
He is Chairman of the Education Committee of the Spine Society of Europe and Visiting Professor of Spinal Studies at Durham University.
He is the first ever national clinical director for back disorders and is a national leader in his specialism.
Philippa Gregory is the best-selling author of historical novels who now lives on the North York Moors.
She holds a doctorate in 18th-century history and early in her career lectured at Teesside University.
Her many novels include A Respectable Trade, adapted by the BBC, and The Other Boleyn Girl, adapted again for television by the BBC, and later as a Hollywood film starring Scarlett Johansson and Natalie Portman.
Her TV appearances include being a Tudor expert on Channel 4’s Time Team.
She also runs a small charity which builds wells in school gardens in The Gambia.
Bill was a former head of Department of Mathematics and Computing and was one of the architects in developing higher education on Teesside.
He was largely responsible for Teesside's excellent reputation for Computing from the 1960s onwards and helped launch Teesside's first degree in Computer Science in 1966.
He was honoured by the school he helped develop when the building was renamed as The Greig Building in 2001.
Tanni is Britain’s best-known Paralympics athlete, having performed at world-class level for the past 13 years.
She won four gold medals in the 2000 Sydney Paralympics and in 2001 was admitted to the World Sports Academy, alongside sporting legends including Pele, Ed Moses and Boris Becker.
Baroness Tanni Grey-Thompson is Britain’s best-known paralympic athlete having performed at world-class level for the last 13 years.
By the end of her paralympic career in 2007 she had achieved 16 medals, 11 gold, four silver and a bronze.
In 1993 she received an MBE for services to sport, in 2000 the OBE, again for services to sport and in 2005 made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
In 2010 she was made a life peer.
She first received an honorary Master of Science award from the University in 2001.
Tanni continues to play an active role within sports administration; she is a non-executive member of the board of UK Athletics, and the board of the London Marathon and is Honorary President of Sports Leaders UK.
Richard was born in Thornaby, studied drama at Stockton and Billingham College and has gone on to a distinguished stage, screen and television career.
Richard has been awarded the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actor, the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actor in a Play, the Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play, and the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actor in a Play, all for his role in Alan Bennett’s play The History Boys.
Film roles include Uncle Monty in Withnail and I  and Uncle Vernon Dursley in the Harry Potter films.
His television series include Pie in the Sky  and the critically acclaimed version of Bleak House.
John Hackney was Chair of the University’s Board of Governors for ten years.
Before that, he served as a University Governor for many years and gave outstanding service to the University.
He was also Chief Executive of the Tees and Hartlepool Port Authority and Chair of the Post Office Users’ National Council.
Stuart was Professor of Sociology at the Open University.
He was at the forefront of social and political analysis for over 30 years and from 1957-61, and the founder of New Left Review.
He moved into an academic career, using his extensive knowledge to the benefit of various institutions.
Bryan, a former leader of Hartlepool Council, has made a major contribution to local government.
He previously held positions as Chairman of North Tees & Hartlepool NHS Trust and Chairman of Cleveland College of Art & Design’s board of governors.
A former Middlesbrough FC and England player, George began his professional football career in 1937, aged 17, for Middlesbrough; and after a stint in the RAF, he returned to the Boro as captain.
During his international career, George was simultaneously captain of Middlesbrough, England and Great Britain.
Fred was one of the key members of Teesside's post-war engineering scene.
He took over the Teesside based family firm of Harkers Engineering and under his guidance, Harkers is now a world class organisation at the forefront of export, earning the Queen's Award for Industry in the 1990s.
Oscar winner Ray was cinema’s premier model animator and fantasy creator.
During his amazing career he breathed life into countless creatures and creations including flying saucers, Cyclops, dragons and of course living skeletons, possibly his most famous work from the 1963 film Jason and the Argonauts.
His other films included The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad and Clash of the Titans.
The one time recluse was radically transformed after TV producer Barry Cockcroft broadcast her battle for survival on bleak Baldersdale.
She captivated the nation in the portrayal of her tough and unyielding life in an isolated farmhouse.
Since then she visited many of the capitals of Europe and most recently the United States.
Denys joined ICI in 1957 after pursuing a career in Law and was appointed to the ICI Main Board in 1980 and became Chairman in 1987.
Denys was a man with a great humanitarian outlook and international interests, which can be seen through his career.
Michael Henson has over 30 years political experience, including advisory roles to city and metro mayors, as well as members of the House of Lords.
Since 2019 he has been Chair of the UK2070 Commission’s Teesside Taskforce, which was established to explore the potential of freeports, steel, hydrogen and the wider net zero agenda to boost opportunities for people across the Tees Valley.
He is currently Associate Director in the Central and Local Government Parliamentary Policy Team at Turner & Townsend, where he is responsible for the Government Insights and Intelligence briefing programme for the business.
He became an Honorary Professor at Teesside University in 2022 and remains an engaged advocate for the institution.
Joe is an Emeritus Professor of the University of Teesside and was previously Head of Instrumentation and Control Engineering.
A long term adviser on educational policy, he has made a major contribution to the history of the University.
Deirdre is Chair of the Commission for Health Improvement, having previously worked as Chief Medical Officer at the Welsh Office – and continues to make a major contribution to health promotion, building on her many publications including the Calman-Hine Report.
Alan was born in Northallerton and is an internationally renowned extreme altitude mountaineer.
He achieved fame as the first Briton ever to successfully climb all 14 of the world's highest mountains.
Ken Home is the Chairman and joint founder of K Home Engineering.
He has led a major Tees Valley success story achieving awards such as the Queen's Award for Export, Tees Valley Company of the Year (twice) and Tees Valley Exporter of the Year, as well as personal recognition as Tees Valley Executive of the Year.
Professor Honeyman is an alumnus of the University, graduating with a PhD, sponsored by the Ministry of Defence.
He is Chief Executive of Sheffield Forgemasters.
He worked previously at NEI Parsons.
On re-joining Forgemasters he led a management buyout and led the company to great success in terms of both reputation and turnover.
Max Howard is head of Exodus Film Group.
He has enjoyed an illustrious career in animation and was senior vice president of Disney feature animation.
He has worked on some of Disney’s most memorable films including Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin and The Lion King.
He is a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.
Max is a long-standing supporter of the University’s annual international Animex festival of animation and computer games.
Alistair was responsible for the Cummins Engine Company Limited in Darlington's European manufacturing strategy and the administration of capital investment projects - a job that involved him in manufacturing projects in Mexico, Algeria, Pakistan and Russia.
Teesside-born Tracy Isacke has lived in Italy, Israel and California.
She started her career at Xerox, rising to be one of the first female members of the UK board of directors.
Following Xerox, she spent four years with a successful early-stage, venture-backed start-up.
Tracy joined Telefónica Digital in 2011, becoming Executive Vice-President for New Business Ventures where she identified investment opportunities in Silicon Valley, Israel and Europe, as well as leading an international team delivering unique partnerships for Telefónica across 25 businesses in Europe and Latin America.
Tracy joined Silicon Valley Bank in 2014, and is Head of the Vendor Transformation Office, responsible for third-party risk management and building relationships with the Bank’s most strategic vendors and partners.
Greg Jackson is an entrepreneur and businessman, and the Founder of Octopus Energy Group, a global energy and technology company specialising in sustainable energy which serves 7.2 million customers across 18 countries.
Having spent part of his childhood in Saltburn, Greg studied Economics at Cambridge University, before going on to own and manage businesses as a serial tech entrepreneur.
He is an angel investor in a wide range of start-ups and is a key thought leader in the UK on issues related to energy transition, energy costs and innovation.
In 1984 Sir Alec and his team demonstrated that forensic samples, such as dried stains several years old, contained sufficient DNA to produce conclusive results.
He proved that even small fragments of DNA molecules were virtually unique to individuals.
He called this process DNA fingerprinting.
This changed the face of forensic science and criminal justice throughout the world.
Sir Alec is currently the Wolfson Research Professor of the Royal Society at the University of Leicester.
David served in the Royal Artillery in the later years of the war before going to Oxford as a scholar at Queen's College.
In his distinguished and varied career, he was Professor of Theology and Head of Theology and Religious Studies Department at Leeds University, becoming Emeritus Professor in 1985.
Anna Kennedy is a prominent autism campaigner, drawing on her experience as a mother.
She is a former Tesco Mum of the Year and founder of two ASD specialist schools in the UK.
Anna originally comes from Middlesbrough.
Originally from Glasgow, Helena has practised as a barrister since 1972 and was made a Queen's Counsel in 1991.
She is a commissioner of the National Commission on Education and is equally well-known outside the courtroom as an accomplished commentator and presenter on numerous radio and TV broadcasts.
Nas arrived in Britain aged 14 unable to speak English.
He went on to become Managing Director of one of the North East’s longest established, privately-owned and independent motor retailers – Jennings Motor Group.
Nas has won many accolades including an OBE for his charity work and contribution to the economy, and has been involved in setting up his own charity and fundraising appeal.
The Emaan Foundation funded the rebuilding of an entire village in Pakistan following the devastating floods of 2010.
Middlesbrough-born Sue Kiddle is a successful businesswoman, with over 25 years experience in corporate banking.
She has undertaken a variety of senior change management roles in the financial services sector in the UK and overseas, moving into consultancy 16 years ago and coaching executive leaders, sales managers and individuals to grow and perform to their maximum potential.
A former governor of Teesside University and a current Trustee of Teesside University Students’ Union, Sue continues to dedicate her time to her local community, acting as magistrate and mentor lead for new magistrates in Cleveland, County Durham and Darlington.
Eric Leong is an interior designer in Malaysia and has worked in the industry for over 20 years.
He presents a long-running Malaysian television programme on interior design.
Eric is known in Malaysia as The Design King and is internationally renowned for the imagination and quality of his work.
He has made a major international contribution to design education, including delivering master classes to MA students at our University.
He was awarded his honorary degree at a ceremony in Kuala Lumpur.
Andy achieved a master’s degree in computer graphics from Teesside and has gone on to achieve international success in this field.
His work has been on the small and big screen in the award-winning Walking with Dinosaurs and The Matrix.
While employed by the Framestore studio, he was one of the computer graphics supervisors working on the triple-Oscar-winning Avatar, directed by James Cameron.
He now works for The Foundry, a leading UK company for writing software for use in visual effects.
Andy first received an honorary Master of Arts degree from Teesside in 2004 and has returned as a guest speaker at the University’s annual international festival of animation and computer games, Animex.
Teesside Graduate Andrew is Head of Character Effects at Dreamworks in the USA.
He is the creator of innovative digital effects in Hollywood and has worked on feature films such as Matrix Revolutions and Catwoman.
His previous work includes the landmark TV series Walking with Dinosaurs.
Michael came to Teesside in 1972 as Assistant Director (Academic) and took over as Director in 1980.
In 1989, Michael oversaw Teesside Polytechnic incorporated as an independent institution and led the institution to University status in 1992.
Alastair MacColl spent his early career leading award-winning daily newspaper and multimedia businesses for both Trinity Mirror plc and Northcliffe Newspapers (part of the Daily Mail and General Trust plc).
He went on to become the founding CEO of business services group Umi (formerly BE Group), working with governments, corporates, and SMEs across the UK.
In 2007 Alastair joined the Board of Teesside University, becoming Deputy Chair in 2009, and Chair of the Board from 2014 until 2021.
He has provided exceptional leadership and strategic support to the University through considerable growth and expansion.
Alastair is a University of Glasgow graduate and is currently Chair of Court at the University of the Highlands and Islands – Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean.
Alasdair was a well-known local businessman and community leader.
He was Managing Director of Vauxhall motor dealership Sherwoods of Darlington.
In addition to his successful business career Alasdair held numerous posts in the local community, including Chair of the board of governors of Darlington College, Chair of Darlington Strategic Partnership, Chair of Durham School and Chair of St Teresa’s Hospice in Darlington.
Alasdair was passionate about his commitment to his community and in 2004 he was awarded an OBE for services to his local community.
He was also the Vice-Lord Lieutenant of County Durham.
Wilf is described in Middlesbrough Football Club's official history as "undoubtedly the most famous player in the history of the club".
He was born in South Bank and began his career at the age of 14, making his debut in 1936 and joining the Green Howards in 1939.
Wilf played for Great Britain during the war and was capped 26 times for England.
He is a local legend and a source of huge pride to Teesside.
Baroness Masham was made a Life Peer in 1970 and as a committed northerner much of her work involved helping organisations near her home.
She was patron of the Yorkshire Red Cross and President of the Yorkshire Association for the Disabled.
She took part in the first Paraplegic Olympic Games in Rome in 1960 winning a gold medal and helped raise money to support other Olympic competitions.
Judge Gillian Matthews is a distinguished local judge.
She is a former Recorder and Deputy High Court Judge and currently Designated Civil Judge for Teesside.
She is the first ever female QC to come from Middlesbrough and one of only two women in the country to be a Designated Civil Judge.
Steve was Manager of Middlesbrough Football Club from 2001 to 2006, giving the role up in June 2006 to become Head Coach of the England Football Team.
Under his management Middlesbrough FC won the Carling Cup and qualified for Europe twice, reaching the UEFA Cup Final in his last season.
Steve McClure is one of the best rock climbers in the world.
He was born in Saltburn, and has been climbing since childhood.
In 2007, he made the first ascent of the UK’s most difficult listed climbing route, named Overshadow, in the Yorkshire Dales.
He has charted and pioneered five more of the UK’s toughest routes.
Steve climbs and coaches internationally, and writes a blog about climbing.
'Stephanie is a journalist and TV presenter who is currently the host of Channel 4's Steph's Packed Lunch.
She grew up in Middlesbrough and won the Young Engineer for Britain award at the age of 19.
Stephanie is also a former champion Irish dancer.
Initially formed as the Cleveland String Quartet, they made their debut at Teesside Polytechnic and, as the renamed Brodsky Quartet, were soon building a reputation for their strong repertoire in the classical field.
The group were appointed as the first Quartet in Residence at Cambridge University.
Peter, educated at St Mary's College, Middlesbrough, spent several years in a monastery before reading philosophy at the University of Paris.
He served in the Diplomatic Service and in 1992 he became Chief Executive of Lloyd's and worked in investment banking and securities.
Jerzy was Rector of the Krakow Academy of Economics in Poland.
He was a senior member of the Polish Academy of Sciences and a distinguished Sociologist and advised the Polish President on the national and international media.
Joe spent a lifetime working for the development and prosperity of the region from the heart of the labour and trade union movements.
He was a co-founding Director of the Northern Development Company and spoke for the trade unions in the Invest in Britain Bureau, touring the world to help attract jobs to Britain.
Richard is the young highly-renowned author of Apples, Ten Storey Love Song and, most recently, Kimberly's Capital Punishment.
His writing appeared in numerous publications and his books have been translated into nine languages.
Richard comes from Middlesbrough and is a leading cultural ambassador for our town.
Born in Jamaica in 1938, Bill worked in the engineering industry in Birmingham whilst attending day release courses at Handsworth Technical College.
He became the first black leader of a major British trade union and is a member of the executive of the TUC and a member of the Economic Community's Economic and Social Committee.
Bob Mortimer is a Middlesbrough born actor and comedian.
He is best known for his double act with Vic Reeves through shows like Reeves and Mortimer, Shooting Stars and House of Fools.
He owns an independent production company and is recognised as a highly innovative performer, writer and producer.
Heidi has been the Chief Executive Officer of the Northumbrian Water Group (NWG) since 2010, before which she had an excellent track record in the rail industry, progressing through a variety of senior leadership roles.
She was awarded an OBE in the New Year Honours list 2010 for services to the rail industry and a CBE in the Birthday Honours list 2018 for services to the water industry and business community.
She is currently a Board Member of Eurostar International Limited, the Confederation of British Industry, WaterAid, the North East Local Enterprise Partnership and is also Vice-Chair of Newcastle University Council.
In 2016 she was selected to be the Prince of Wales’ Business Ambassador to the North East, in conjunction with Business in the Community.
In the same year she was also named North East Business Executive of the Year recognising her significant contribution to business in the North East.
Under her leadership NWG achieved the Queen’s Award for Enterprise in 2014 and has been the only water company on the World’s Most Ethical companies list seven years in a row.
The Company has also been named as Water Company of the Year 2018 as well as being awarded the British Quality Foundation’s UK Excellence Award 2018.
Mo Mowlam was Labour MP for Redcar 1987 - 2001.
She held the office of Northern Ireland Secretary and played a crucial role in the Northern Ireland peace talks.
She became the first woman to be granted the Freedom of the Borough of Redcar and Cleveland.
Mo launched the Tees Valley Information Partnership and officially opened the University's new £11m Learning Resource Centre in 1998
David Muckle is a leading orthopaedic surgeon.
He was a member of the team that invented Ibuprofen and author of over 200 published articles.
He is medical adviser to many sporting organisations including the Football Association.
He is a member of the Research Ethics Committee of the School of Science & Engineering.
Geoff is a graduate of Teesside Polytechnic.
He started his career with British Steel and progressed to a number of senior positions with different companies in locations ranging from Belgium to Saudi Arabia.
He has held a variety of posts within Manchester Airport Group and is currently Group Chief Executive where he has overseen huge growth, diversification and investment.
Middlesbrough-born Sir Peter Murray is the Founding Director Emeritus of Yorkshire Sculpture Park.
Sir Peter studied fine art and education, before progressing into academia, while continuing to exhibit his own work.
In 1977 he founded Yorkshire Sculpture Park, a leading international centre for modern and contemporary sculpture and the largest of its kind in Europe.
As well as winning numerous awards, the park has hosted major exhibitions from artists all over the world.
Bill, a Chartered Engineer by profession, joined the National Health Service in the 1960s.
As Chief Executive of South Tees Hospitals NHS Trust he is recognised nationally and internationally as a leader in the modernisation of the health service.
Martin stepped down as Chief Executive of Barnados in early 2011.
He previously held the post of Chief Executive of the Prison Service and then the National Offender Management Service.
Born in Middlesbrough he has, through his work, made an invaluable contribution to education and social inclusion.
Julia became the second female Rabbi in Britain at the age of 27.
She was the first in the world to have her own congregation and became a media personality.
She is an author and lecturer and has served as Governor for the British Institute of Human Rights.
She is a member of the BMA Ethics Committee.
Highly successful local businessman Alan founded his company in 1981 which is now known as Northgate Plc.
Northgate now employs 3,000 people across Europe and runs over 100,000 vehicles.
He has also made major contributions to our local community, including through his position as a previous Director of Tees Valley Regeneration.
Coosje and Claes were internationally renowned sculptors.
Between them they had designed over 40 monumental, often controversial, sculptures which adorn parks and town centres in cities across the world.
They created the Bottle of Notes in Middlesbrough, which is the first international commission made by the northern region and draws heavily on the heritage of Teesside's most famous son Captain Cook.
Adele comes from Stockton and studied English Language and Literature at Leicester University.
She has sold over 1.5m copies of her romantic fiction novels in the UK with ten top ten bestsellers.
Adele’s books have been translated into over 15 languages and she was official spokesperson for World Book Day in 2006 and 2007.
She is also a supporter of numerous charities.
David Parnaby is head of the Middlesbrough Football Club Academy.
He was previously a teacher at Lingfield Comprehensive School in Darlington and coached England under-15 school boys before joining Middlesbrough FC.
He is widely recognised as one of the most talented Academy leaders in English football.
Dr Nicholas J.
M.
Patrick was born in Saltburn-by-the-Sea, North Yorkshire, and is a NASA Astronaut and engineer.
He was selected by NASA in 1998, and has flown on two shuttle missions: STS-116 and STS-130, both construction missions to the International Space Station (ISS).
He has logged 638 hours in space, including over 18 hours outside the ISS during three spacewalks on his second mission.
He is the fourth Briton to have flown in space.
Geraldine lectured in Social Administration at Teesside Polytechnic in the mid-1970s.
She went on to become Chief Executive of the National Autistic Society and then the Guide Dogs for the Blind Association.
Geraldine played an important role on the Social Investment Taskforce and the Strategy Unit's Advisory Group for the Review in Charity Law and Regulation.
She was awarded a CBE in the 2001 New Year honours list for services to the voluntary sector.
She is now Chair of the Charity  Commission and advises the government on a range of charity issues.
Harry comes from Middlesbrough.
He is a writer on sport – notably the author of The Far Corner (runner up in the 1995 British Sports Book of the Year award) and Slipless in Settle (which won the 2011 Cricket Society and MCC Book of the Year award).
Harry has written for the football magazine When Saturday Comes for over 20 years.
He is also a former contributing editor to GQ magazine and former sports columnist for the Guardian.
Former Chair of Middlesbrough College, Acklam Grange School and Kader Primary School in Middlesbrough.
Hazel  served as a Middlesbrough Councillor for 33 years and was awarded the Freedom of Middlesbrough in 2003.
United States-based Steve Penrose graduated in computer science from the University’s predecessor, Teesside Polytechnic, in the 1970s and has achieved the position of Senior Vice-President in ADP.
The company has 47,000 staff and is one of the largest providers of integrated computing and business outsourcing companies in the world.
Albertjan has pioneered links between European institutions of Higher Education with the Haagse Hogeschool - one of the most influential in the Dutch capital - which has been teaching Teesside Business School's Diploma in Management Studies programme for two years with the links expanding into the field of health-related courses.
Middlesbrough-born Alastair was brought up in Stokesley.
Educated in York at St Olave’s and St Peter’s schools, Alastair later studied at Kirby College in Middlesbrough and then Constantine College, which eventually became Teesside University.
The dad-of-four started his career in the family business, Arthur Jones electrical wholesale, before founding Cleveland Cable Company in 1978.
Operating from rented property in North Ormesby Road, Middlesbrough, the firm bought and sold industrial electrical cables.
Today, Cleveland Cable Company employs 600 people in seven worldwide locations.
His interests include squash, gardening and running, with a personal achievement being his completion of the Great North Run in two hours and 29 seconds aged 59.
Rhianna is an award-winning writer for games, comics, film, TV and short stories.
Her love affair with games evolved through her work as a journalist for PC Zone and The Guardian.
She has worked on titles including Heavenly Sword, Mirror’s Edge, Overlord and Tomb Raider.
Her work has received awards from the Writers’ Guild of America, the Writers’ Guild of Great Britain, DICE, SXSW and a BAFTA nomination.
She is currently writing film and TV projects with the Jim Henson Company, Film4 and O3 Productions.
Steve is an alumnus of the University, graduating with a BSc Computer Science degree.
He enjoys building technology companies, such as SurfControl Plc which he jointly founded and guided through hypergrowth, eventually employing over 750 people in 14 countries with profitable revenues of over $120m before being acquired in 2007 - Identum, a small spin out from Bristol University which was sold to Trend Micro Inc and more recently he is the co-founder and CEO of the UK digital music company We7, an online jukebox.
He was a founder investor in the company with former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel.
Tesco has recently acquired We7.
Alan Ransome is one of the leading figures in international table tennis over the last 50 years.
He has coached England, won the European Championships with Ormesby, and is a leading local and national coach.
He is also organiser of the World Student Games, a media commentator, ex-Chairman of the English Table Tennis Association and Chairman of the Commonwealth Table Tennis Federation.
He coached the Great Britain team at the 1996 Olympic Games.
Edwin was music advisor to Cleveland's Local Education Authority.
He studied in Berlin and London before taking up the position.
In 1961 he founded the Cleveland Youth Orchestra and had conducted the Teesside Symphony Orchestra since 1960.
Marek Reichman is Aston Martin’s design director and has designed some of Aston Martin’s most iconic brands.
Marek is a graduate of the University’s BA (Hons) Industrial Design course and he regularly returns to the campus to meet and inspire the next generation of design students.
He first received an honorary Master of Science degree from Teesside in 2006.
Tom is a musician, broadcaster and equal rights campaigner.
He was raised on Teesside, moving to London to join his first band, Café Society, with Ray Davies of The Kinks and Middlesbrough born songwriter Hereward Kaye.
Tom then went on to form the rock group Tom Robinson Band (TRB) achieving a number of Top 20 hits.
Film Director Franc Roddam was born and raised in Norton.
His films include Quadrophenia, K2, Aria, Lords of Discipline and War Party.
He also produced formats for hugely successful film series Auf Wiedersehen, Pet, Making Out, and Harry.
He directed the award-winning TV drama Dummy, which won the prestigious Prix Italia Drama Prize.
He directed the US mini-series Moby Dick and Cleopatra, which was Grammy-nominated and Golden Globe-nominated.
Franc also created the worldwide television phenomenon, MasterChef, shown in 150 countries worldwide with around 65 locally-produced versions of the show.
Franc has won awards for his BBC documentaries, Mini and The Family.
He is the founder and Chairman of Ziji Publishing, whose many titles include The Last Templar which sold over five million copies worldwide.
He is a sponsor and former Governor of the London Film School and is an active member of the Greenworld Campaign.
Singer-songwriter Paul Rodgers was born in Middlesbrough and the founding member and main songwriter of the bands Free, Bad Company and The Firm with Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page.
Since 1968 he has toured internationally as Queen + Paul Rodgers and as a solo artist.
He has released 30 albums and sold over 90 million records.
He has consistently been voted number one vocalist of all time.
He and his wife Cynthia quietly support over 30 varied charities internationally and in 2008 he received the prestigious US Congress Proclamation for his humanitarianism, of only eight awarded.
Lord Sawyer was Chancellor of Teesside University from 2005 to 2017.
A vocal champion of Teesside University’s mission, vision and values, he was deeply passionate about our region and was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters (Hon DLitt) in 2017.
Born in Darlington in 1943, Lord Sawyer worked in the engineering industry until 1971, when he became a full-time official for the National Union for Public Employees and secretary of Darlington Trades Council.
He rose through the ranks and served as Deputy General Secretary of NUPE, and was instrumental in the creation of UNISON, one of Britain’s biggest unions.
He was chairman of the Labour party between 1991 and 1992 and the party's general secretary from 1994 to 1998.
He was made a life peer in 1998.
Robert was the former chairman of British Steel and a member of the British Steel board from 1973 to 1992.
He held many posts including President of Eurfer and membership of the ECSC Consultative Committee and had been widely acknowledged for playing a major role in getting British Steel back to profitability in the 1980s.
Bill is the founder and Chief Executive of the Wilton Group, the Teesside-based engineering group.
The group was founded in 1994 as Wilton Engineering Services and has massively grown and expanded since then, now employing over 800 people with an annual turnover of over £85m.
Bill was named North East Business Executive of the Year in 2012 and is a major supporter of local charities.
Dr John Sentamu was appointed Archbishop of York in 2005 and is the Archbishop for the area in which Teesside University is located.
Dr Sentamu is an Advocate of the High Court of Uganda and practiced at the Bar and the Bench before he came to the UK in 1974 to study Theology at Selwyn College Cambridge where he obtained his master’s degree and doctorate.
He is an outspoken speaker on a number of issues including modern-day slavery, injustice and conflict.
John Sergeant is a distinguished television and radio journalist, broadcaster and political author.
After Oxford University he started his career by studying journalism at the University’s partner Darlington College.
His career highlights include roles as the BBC’s chief political correspondent for eight years and as ITN’s political editor.
After retiring from political journalism, his TV appearances have included chairing Have I Got News For You and a surprise stint as a celebrity contestant on BBC One’s Strictly Come Dancing.
Professor Abu Shah is the Vice-Chancellor of the University's partner university, Universiti Teknologi Mara (UiTM) - the largest public university in Malaysia and one of the largest universities in Southeast Asia.
Professor Abu Shah is a sociologist by background, and a great supporter of the excellent link between the two universities.
Dr Shi is the founding President of Hong Kong Institute of Technology, an important partner of Teesside University.
She is a major public figure in Hong Kong and a distinguished educationalist.
Hannana grew up in the Tees Valley and is the joint co-ordinator of the Southall Black Sisters.
This national organisation supports Afro-Caribbean women on a range of major policy issues, including immigration law and domestic violence and campaigns for changes to the law.
Bev Skeggs was born in Middlesbrough.
She is Professor of Sociology at Goldsmiths College, University of London.
Bev is one of the most prominent sociologists of her generation and is the joint managing editor of the 100-year old Sociological Review.
Her work is in the areas of women’s studies and cultural studies, as well as sociology.
Bev is an elected Academician of the Academy of the Learned Societies for the Social Sciences.
Keith Skeoch is the Chief Executive of Standard Life Investments.
He has made a huge contribution to the financial services industry, most notably in the wake of the global financial crisis during which he worked with government and trade bodies to establish best practice in stewardship and governance.
Keith received his degree in a special event to mark the 450th anniversary of the University’s partner college Prior Pursglove.
Wayne gained a Leverhulme Scholarship to the Royal Ballet School aged 12 and has appeared in over 50 major roles.
He created numerous dances for his BBC television series The Hot Shoe Show and founded The Wayne Sleep Dance Scholarship to help young aspiring dancers.
Rob Smedley is originally from Normanby, Middlesbrough.
He has built an outstanding career as an engineer in Formula 1 racing, first with Peugeot, followed by Williams and Jordan.
He moved to work for Ferrari in 2007 and later was appointed as Felipe Massa’s race engineer.
He is widely recognised as being one of the most respected engineers in the whole of Formula 1.
Born in Middlesbrough, Harry was Professor of Botany and Director of the Botanic Garden at the University of Leicester - he was one of the lending botanists of his generation and a fellow of the Royal Society.
Born in Middlesbrough, Alan enjoyed an outstanding career as an international football Physiotherapist.
In 1994 he was appointed as Physiotherapist to the England team, serving under Terry Venables, Kevin Keegan and Sven Goran Eriksson.
Judge Leslie Spittle was born in Middlesbrough, attending Acklam Hall Grammar School followed by Constantine College.
He worked as an apprentice before studying for a law degree at Hull University.
On graduating Leslie lectured at Bradford College before joining Teesside Polytechnic.
In 1969 he commenced practice as a barrister from chambers in London and Leeds before joining Fountain Chambers in Middlesbrough.
In 1996 Leslie became circuit judge at the Teesside Bench, continuing to sit part-time as a deputy circuit judge after his retirement in 2010.
Leslie was a governor at Teesside University from 1997 to 2007, subsequently taking up the role as the University’s Visitor, and continues to be an important advocate of the University.
Born in Hartlepool, Jeff is a renowned and innovative television journalist.
He is best known for his current role as anchor for Sky Sports' Gillette Soccer Saturday.
Jeff also presents a range of other live football and has been a well-known face to Sky Sports viewers for over a decade.
His media career began as a reporter at his local paper, The Hartlepool Mail.
Maurice played a leading role in reshaping local government through his positions as chairman of the Teesside Steering committee during 1966-67, leader of the newly created Teesside County Borough Council from 1967-1974 and mayor.
He was a foundation governor of the University of Teesside and was elected to the board in 1989.
Rab was the first Chair of Governors for the University of Teesside in 1992, retiring in 1997.
His key role in working with senior management turned the University's financial fortunes round from a £1m a year deficit to a surplus of more than £2m.
Alison Thain is the Group Chief Executive of the housing association Thirteen, having previously been Chief Executive of five other housing associations.
She has been a Board member of the Regional Development Agency, and is a Board member of the Tees Valley Local Enterprise Partnership, Chair of CBI North East and a Council member of the North East Chamber of Commerce.
She was, until this year, a Governor of the University.
Eric was born in Hartlepool.
Following a period as Dean of the Medical School at Southampton University, he progressed to the role of Vice-Chancellor of the University of Bristol, becoming one of the country's best known and most influential Vice-Chancellors.
Mackenzie is a Middlesbrough-born artist with an internationally renowned body of work, drawing on the Tees Valley and the voyages of James Cook for much of his paintings.
His most recent exhibition, inspired by Cook, is currently on show at the Captain Cook Birthplace Museum in Middlesbrough.
He first received an honorary Master of Arts from Teesside in 2000.
Middlesbrough-born Mackenzie is an artist of international repute and has held exhibitions in New York, London, Los Angeles and Singapore.
He left school at 15 and worked in a series of unskilled, manual jobs until he applied to Middlesbrough College of Art, which led to a Fine Art degree from Byam Shaw School of Art.
William Tillyer is a Middlesbrough-born artist.
He studied at Slade School of Fine Art, University College London and Atelier 17 Studio in Paris.
He has exhibited globally including, this year, at MIMA.
He held a Visiting Professorship at Brown University, Rhode Island, USA.
Stephen Tompkinson is a Stockton-born actor, and a well-known face in television, theatre and film.
He played detective Alan Banks in ITV’s crime drama series DCI Banks and he previously starred in Ballykissangel and Wild at Heart.
His film credits include the 1996 comedy-drama Brassed Off.
He regularly performs on the stage in London’s West End.
Peter is an acknowledged expert on poverty, health, social policy and old age, with much of this work conducted in and concerning the northern region.
He was involved in the foundation of the Child Poverty Action Group in 1965 and also became their president.
Famed for his international rugby career, Rory Underwood holds the record of 49 tries for England and won seven caps for the British Lions touring Australia in 1989 and New Zealand in 1993.
Rory played first class rugby at Leicester Tigers for 14 years and was awarded an MBE in 1992 for services to rugby.
He joined the Board of Leicester Tigers as a non-executive Director in November 2007.
Rory amassed 3,000 hours flying as a pilot during 18 years in the Royal Air Force (RAF).
During his RAF career he was responsible for introducing crew resources management training.
Rory brings his expertise in effective communication and high-performance leadership to business teams, and is an experienced facilitator, psychometric profiler and performance coach.
Professor Tony Unsworth has been a Professor of Engineering at Durham University since 1989, with an extensive research portfolio in biomedical engineering and tribology.
His research has explored the functioning of natural and artificial joints, as well as the design of new generations of joints.
Following approval by the Secretary of State, Tony initially joined Teesside Polytechnic’s Shadow Board of Governors in 1986.
Re-designated as a university in 1992, Tony remained a committed and valued board member of Teesside University until 1999 following full tenure.
Tony subsequently became a member of the University’s Professorial Committee (now the Academic Titles and Awards Committee), providing valuable advice and expertise to the University until March 2020.
Tony Waites is chair of the County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust.
He has previously held various Board level appointments in the international textile industry for almost 40 years and several Board positions in the National Health Service.
Tony comes from Darlington.
Teesside Industrial Design graduate Dan Walker is a successful concept artist who described himself as the combination of a designer and illustrator.
Dan’s talent has been viewed on TV and the big screen, ranging from two Christian Bale Batman films to Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince, The Golden Compass and the 2005 and 2010 series of Doctor Who.
This year his work was seen in Ridley Scott’s new version of Robin Hood and the Disney film The Prince of Persia.
Pete Widlinski is a long-standing Teesside resident who makes an untiring contribution to the most vulnerable in our society.
He is the information and communications manager for the North of England Refugee Service, and was its Tees Valley Area Manager for 14 years.
He is also a former secretary of the North East Coalition for Asylum Rights, an organisation he established in 1992 and has kept alive since then.
Pete is also a trustee of the Mary Thompson Fund, a body that seeks to alleviate asylum seeker hardship.
In addition, Pete is the director and founding member of Justice First, a charity that assists people refused asylum, and a director of Show Racism the Red Card, the anti-racism campaign using football and footballers as positive anti-racism role models.
Pete also recently won the Tees Valley BME Awards Lifetime Achievement Award.
Teesside-born Keith Williams is Chief Executive of British Airways (BA).
Keith joined BA in 1998 from Reckitt and Colman where he was head of tax.
He became BA group treasurer and head of tax in 2000 and in 2006 he became Chief Financial Officer of BA.
He was appointed as Chief Executive in 2011, following him playing a leading role in steering BA through the recession and through the aftermath of the September 11 attacks.
Sir Alan went to school in Darlington and is now the Master of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
Prior to this he was the Director General of Higher Education, the Vice-Chancellor of Leeds University and Assistant Director of the Centre for Environmental Studies.
He is a hugely distinguished academic and a passionate believer in widening participation.
Dame Penelope was born in Scarborough and has had a successful and varied career in film and television.
She has also worked extensively for over 50 years in the classical theatre.
Her film career includes roles in The BFG, The French Lieutenant’s Woman, Calendar Girls and Shaun of the Dead.
Penelope’s television acting career included several major TV roles starring opposite Richard Briers in Ever Decreasing Circles, playing Homily in The Borrowers and, more recently, for her role as Isobel Crawley in the ITV drama Downton Abbey.
In 2015 Penelope won an Olivier Award for her performance in Taken at Midnight.
Arnold began his academic career at Manchester University in 1951, moving to the University of Durham in 1956.
Following retirement from his staff post, he continued his research work at Durham and had played a significant role in the North East.
Brian joined Middlesbrough Borough Council as Deputy Director of Education in 1970.
During his 26 years in educational administration on Teesside, he played a pivotal role in the day-to-day running of the Polytechnic and was appointed County Educational Officer in 1991.
Sir Ian comes from Stockton-on-Tees.
He was, until this year, Deputy Chairman of the Government’s Regional Growth Fund advisory panel.
He is a former Chairman of the Port of Tyne, former Executive Chairman of UK Land Estates and former Chairman of the BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art.
He is the former Member of Parliament for Teesside Thornaby, and later Stockton South, and has previously served as Deputy Chairman of the University Board of Governors.
Phillip is the Chairman of the Yuill Group, a major local employer.
He also makes a substantial contribution to the community as the President of the local NSPCC.
To be considered for an honorary title individuals must fit one or more of the following criteria:
In addition:
Nominations are welcomed from University staff, students and graduates.
All nominations are presented to the Honorary Awards Committee who make a recommendation to the Academic Board.
The committee is made up of representatives from the Academic Board and the Governing Body.
The process for nominating an individual for an honorary award is confidential.
Nominations are accepted all year round, although the next deadline for submitting nominations will be Thursday 13 February, 5.00pm .
The nomination window will reopen after this time running through until the next deadline submission date.
All nominations need to be seconded by a Dean of School or Director from Teesside University.
Please discuss the nomination with them and confirm their support before submitting your suggestion.
Submit your nomination

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/support.cfm:
We continue to benefit from the generosity our supporters who give their time, money and expertise to our causes.
As a result, we continue to empower our university community with the skills, knowledge and opportunities to succeed.
Inspiring the next generation with your graduate story and expertise
Providing students from disadvantaged backgrounds access to higher education
Ensuring students can fully realise their potential through enrichment opportunities
Contributing to transformative research with global impact

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/grad_quotes.cfm:
Dr Shaun McLaren PhD
"Being a sport scientist is about so much more than domain subject knowledge."
Josephine Wratten
"I liked that the course was flexible and allowed me to juggle studying and training full time."
Joel Goodhall
"The Business School environment felt like one where I could make friends, have fun and also push myself with the support of the staff."
Lin Fidgin
"The ambassador programme offers a vast array of opportunities across many different sectors."
Ngoli Okide
"My course gives me the opportunity to switch to my area of interest within one year."
Graduates from Teesside University span the globe
Home › Alumni › Meet our graduates

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/welcome.cfm:
Update your contact details, change your communication preferences and stay connected as a valued member of our alumni community.
By keeping your details up to date, you remain connected to the latest University news, alumni benefits & services, event invitations and opportunities to support the University and its community.
More about how we use your data
Complete the form

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/news.cfm:
There are 30 recent news articles
Home › Alumni › News
Journalism graduate Ella Wilson was making headlines ahead of her Teesside University graduation.
From Teesside student to concept artist, Dennis Van Kessel’s red panda mascot bursts onto the Animex stage with colour, charm, and creative flair
A pioneering games developer, an innovative tech entrepreneur, and a healthcare leader were honoured alongside thousands of students during Teesside University’s academic awards this month.
17 Jul 2025
As England’s Lionesses continue to go for glory in the Euros 2025, Teesside University graduate Jess Mett is emulating their footballing success.
15 Jul 2025
Married couple Ivett and Liam Hollands, who relocated to Teesside to complete the same degree, are celebrating academic success.
Class of 2024 graduates - very soon, you’ll receive an invitation to take a short graduate survey, your insights can make a big difference for future Teesside cohorts.
Balancing work with study set Stephen Fenwick-Bird on the path to academic success.
Hassan and Hussein Doma are celebrating their shared graduation day after completing the same postgraduate degree.
10 Jul 2025
Kerri Coyne is continuing her academic journey at Teesside University after returning to education to switch career direction.
Law graduate Rajveer Kaur is the first recipient of the Emma Teare Award for Family Law.
9 Jul 2025
A passionate graduate who worked in the catering team at Teesside University throughout his studies plans to become a restaurateur.
Professionals, staff and students have learned about the latest developments in football sport performance at a special event hosted by Teesside University.
This International Women in Engineering Day (INWED), Teesside University is proud to spotlight the outstanding achievements of women in engineering, while continuing its commitment to creating a more diverse and inclusive engineering workforce in the Tees Valley and beyond.
Teesside University is proud to announce that two graduate start-up teams, Shiverbug Studios and Archive Interactive, have been selected to take part in Tranzfuser 2025, the UK’s flagship graduate game development competition.
Tuesday 10 June marked a day of celebration as three Teesside University alumni came together to launch a powerful new book, offering real voices from the recovery community.
It was a double celebration for mum and daughter Michelle Tierney and Keeley Eastbury who graduated together from the same Teesside University degree.
23 May 2025
Mature student Danny Reed returned to education to further his career and is now sharing his knowledge with future digital marketers.
Two Teesside University graduates, who first met at primary school and went on to become a couple, have celebrated academic achievement by graduating on the same day.
21 May 2025
International student Francis Nwobodo chose Teesside University to study as he felt it would bolster his ambition to pursue a career in the digital media industry.
20 May 2025
A proud dad graduating from Teesside University was also able to witness his two daughters celebrate their own academic achievements.
Teesside University is this week welcoming thousands of graduates and their guests as it hosts its first graduations of 2025 in its new state-of-the-art £42 million Digital Life building.
19 May 2025
A student assistance programme which provides around-the-clock mental health support to Teesside University students has been extended to include graduates.
From idea to impact.
Are you a recent graduate from class of 2023 or 2024 that is ready to start your entrepreneurial journey?
12 May 2025
Teesside graduates can now access a free Will writing service provided by The Taylor Lucas Partnership.
7 May 2025
We’re proud to celebrate the creativity and accomplishments of our alumni with the relaunch of the Alumni Virtual Bookshelf.
1 May 2025
A transformative package of proposals to create 2,000 skilled jobs, regenerate key town centre sites and help Tees Valley become a global powerhouse in digital and creative industries has been agreed.
Senior Lecturer and graduate Dr Mansoor Soomro has written his first book, exploring the future of artificial intelligence in the workplace.
7 Apr 2025
More than 100 Teesside University nursing students have gained valuable work experience while making a huge impact supporting communities in Cambodia.
26 Mar 2025
An Ofsted inspection has rated Teesside University’s professional apprenticeships as ’Outstanding’ in every category and praised the transformative impact of the qualifications.
View our news archive for older articles

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/events.cfm:
There are 2 upcoming events, you can see the details below.
Home › Alumni › Events & reunions

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/contacts_general.cfm:
01642 342933 enquiries@tees.ac.uk
01642 738801 admissions@tees.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1642 738900 internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk
01642 046988 saci-school@tees.ac.uk
01642 342631 scedt-enquiries@tees.ac.uk
01642 384100 shls-enquiries@tees.ac.uk
01642 342312 ssshl-enquiries@tees.ac.uk
01642 738500 tubs-enquiries@tees.ac.uk
Search UNIverse - our dedicated self-serve student portal.
UNIverse provides access to our database of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) and allows you to submit an enquiry to our advisors if you can't find what you're looking for.
Search UNIverse
01642 342255 accommodation@tees.ac.uk
Including disability, mental health, counselling, careers and employability, sport and wellbeing:
01642 342277 studentlife@tees.ac.uk
01642 342220 ithelp@tees.ac.uk
01642 342100 Libraryhelp@tees.ac.uk
01642 342564 sco@tees.ac.uk
01642 384454 jobs@tees-su.org.uk
01642 342234 enquiries@tees-su.org.uk
01642 384255 alumni.office@tees.ac.uk
01642 384068 business@tees.ac.uk
01642 342041
01642 738267 communications@tees.ac.uk
studentlife@tees.ac.uk
01642 342201 hr@tees.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1642 384276 international.office@tees.ac.uk
01642 342562
01642 384438 research@tees.ac.uk
01642 342086
01642 738338 studentfutures@tees.ac.uk
studentfutures@tees.ac.uk
01642 738930 academicregistry@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/clearing:
It's not too late to join the Modern University of the Year (Daily Mail University Guide 2026)
Open 9.30am - 4.00pm (Monday - Friday).
Or ask us anything through our online chat.
Fill in our enquiry form if you have your results.
Ready to join the Modern University of the Year this September?
We've got you covered.
Whether you've had a change of heart, missed the UCAS deadline, or your results don't go as planned, don't worry.
We're here to help you find your perfect course with us through Clearing.
Get the lowdown on all things clearing
If you're looking to start university this September, Clearing is the process that allows you to find your preferred course if places are still available.
Everyone - no matter who you are, or your reason for considering university, your higher education journey is still within reach.
Whether you're feeling calm or full of nerves, a bit of planning can make a huge difference.
We couldn't have made it any easier for you with our step-by-step guide.
If your young person is going through Clearing, you're not alone - and we're here to support you.
Still have questions?
Check out our FAQs for the full Clearing lowdown.
We've put together Clearing advice and real stories from students, parents and our helpful staff, who have either been in your position before or who have supported thousands of students in their journey to Teesside.
Watch, look and listen, and you'll be a Clearing whizz in no time.
for student experience.
Have a first class student lifestyle without the city centre price tag*.
And benefit from scholarship and bursary opportunities
Your skills and experience are considered as well as your grades.
Stay at home and benefit from fantastic transport links  and a free park and ride service.
We focus on making you career ready, through placements, internships and part-time work.
Take your studies global, with opportunities for placements and field trips or a summer abroad.
We're a welcoming and inclusive community of people who really care.
* Study with us and your cost of living, including rent, is 6.7% lower than Newcastle and 12.7% lower than York.
Numbeo cost of living comparison, July 2024.
If you're thinking about applying to us, you can book on our open day and explore our courses, campus and facilities.
Book your open day
Can't wait that long?
You can look around our campus and speak to staff and students that can help.
Book your campus visit
It's not too late to start university this September.
If you have already received your results you can fill in our enquiry form.
Please choose the relevant option below:
Complete this enquiry form only if you have already obtained your qualifications and achieved grades.
If you do not have these at this time, we will be unable to progress your enquiry - please re-visit and complete the form after you have received your results.
Apply now (UK applicant)
Our undergraduate courses are available through Clearing to international applicants.
Please only complete this application form if you have already obtained your qualifications and achieved your grades .
You must upload all requested documents including a copy of your passport, academic qualifications and English language qualification , and copies of any sponsor letters or maintenance documents to meet the requirements .
If you have previously applied through UCAS for 2025-26 entry, please include your UCAS personal ID number in the course details box.
Apply now (International applicant)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/modern_university_year2026.cfm:
Awarded by The Daily Mail
This prestigious, national honour celebrates our transformative approach to learning, teaching, and student experience.
It highlights the highly impressive achievements Teesside University has made to provide an outstanding experience for its students, while also delivering on its mission to transform lives and economies.
The Modern University of the Year accolade is the latest in a series of plaudits which have recognised the exceptional quality of the University's learning and teaching.
Teesside has been rated as Outstanding by Ofsted in all areas for its apprenticeship provision, along with a triple Gold rating in the national Teaching Excellence Framework 2023.
Teesside University is dedicated to transforming lives and economies, and I am particularly proud of the recognition of the considerable work we have done to ensure that people from all walks of life are able to benefit from a truly outstanding higher education experience.
Professor Paul Croney OBE, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive
(out of 53)
(out of 56)
(out of 70)
Our Future Facing Learning initiative equips students with cutting-edge digital tools to thrive in a fast-changing world.
Over £280m has been invested through our Campus Masterplan, including the new £41.4 million Digital Life building which houses cutting edge digital technology and provides a hub for tomorrow's digital and tech talent.
We received Triple Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework and described as Outstanding by Ofsted for our apprenticeship provision.
Daily Mail University Guide editor Alastair McCall described us as the 'standout candidate' for this honour, praising Teesside as 'progressive and ambitious', highlighting our commitment to widening access to higher education - with almost 55 percent of students being the first in their family to attend university.
From providing iPads and developing innovative programmes to eliminate digital poverty, to regenerating Middlesbrough's university quarter, Teesside is applauded as a model of financial sustainability and social impact.
It is progressive and ambitious for its students, putting them at the heart of everything it does.
Teesside University makes a difference.
Alastair McCall, Editor, Daily Mail University Guide

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/tef2023.cfm:
in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023, making us the top university in the North East of England for student experience and one of only 15 universities to receive a rating of Gold overall as well as for student experience and student outcomes.
The TEF is a national scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS) that aims to encourage higher education providers to improve and deliver excellence in the areas that students care about the most: teaching, learning and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
The TEF assesses undergraduate courses and the outcomes apply for four years from September 2023.
These state that:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/source.cfm:
Here at Teesside University we are serious about sharing information in an accessible way to help you make informed decisions.
For instance we would like you to clearly understand our position in league table rankings and surveys.
To help you do this we have cited all the source data so that you can find the information first hand.
2024 International Animation School Rankings
Complete University Guide 2026
Customer First accreditation
Daily Mail University Guide 2026
Our activities alone contribute more than £228m million to the region's economy for 2021/22.
Economic Impact Report 2021-22
Edufuturists Awards 2022
Glassdoor salary
Graduate labour market statistics
Graduate Outcomes Survey 2019-20 to 2020-21
Guardian University Guide 2025
(1,712 responses in survey of 105,385 global participants and 31,990 UK participants)
* Based on the views of 12,383 students within a global survey response of 129,975 students.
etioglobal.org .
** Postgraduate students only
Teesside University was awarded Gold accreditation against the Investors in People (IiP) Standard in 2021.
The University first achieved IiP recognition in 1999, gaining Bronze status in 2008 and Gold status in 2011, 2014 and again in 2018.
Investors in People
Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) 4.
Teesside University was placed in KEF cluster E - a group of 33 'large universities with broad discipline portfolio of both STEM and non-STEM generating excellent research.'
Knowledge Exchange Framework 4
National Student Survey 2025
Figures correct as at 17 July 2024.
Numbeo cost of living comparison 2024: Cost of Living Comparison Between Newcastle upon Tyne and Middlesbrough Numbeo cost of living comparison 2024: Cost of Living Comparison Between Sunderland and Middlesbrough Numbeo cost of living comparison 2024: Cost of Living Comparison Between York and Middlesbrough
Teesside University is an outstanding provider for Higher Apprenticeships.
(Ofsted further education and skills inspection report 2025).
Ofsted report for inspection of Higher Apprenticeship provision, February 2025
Originally founded as Constantine College, the institution was officially opened by the Prince of Wales, the future King Edward VIII, on 2 July 1930.
The college became a polytechnic in 1969; and in 1992, the Privy Council gave approval to 14 higher education institutions, including Teesside, to become new universities.
QS Best Student Cities 2026
QS World University Rankings: Europe 2024
All salary information is correct from 26 July 2024 at the time of publish.
Reed average salary check
The majority of our research was judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
80% of research entered in Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory was recognised as world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
71% of research entered in Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy was recognised as world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
The research of 157 UK universities was assessed
Research Excellence Framework 2021
Institution information
87% of small business owners say they need more support to grow their business.
Small Business Charter
Stonewall UK Workplace Equality Index
Middlesbrough ranked 17th out of 80 cities in the StudentCrowd 2024 Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table.
StudentCrowd Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table 2024
Student Nursing Times Awards 2024
Winner of the best university employability strategy award 2024 
				(targetjobs National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2024.)
targetjobs National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2024
Teesside University was awarded an overall rating of Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
We were also awarded Gold for student experience and Gold for student outcomes.
TEF Gold means that the student experience and outcomes that we deliver are typically outstanding.
The TEF assesses undergraduate courses and the outcomes from TEF 2023 will last for four years from September 2023.
Teaching Excellence Framework 2023
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
Teesside University is ranked in the 1001-1200 band of global universities in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024.
(1,904 institutions included)
Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024
Teesside University was ranked in the 251-300 band of 673 global universities in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024.
Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024
Teesside was placed 4th in the UK in the UI GreenMetric ranking of the most sustainable universities in the world.
1182 institutions participated
UI GreenMetric World University Rankings 2023
Teesside University was ranked as one of 76 Tier 2 universities in the UK University Intellectual Property Ranking 2021
154 institutions reviewed
UK University Intellectual Property Ranking 2021
Teesside University ranked 39th for online learning in the Uswitch Online Learning Index 2022.
The study analysed 50 of the most populated UK universities on their online course offerings, university ratings and research quality.
Uswitch Online Learning Index 2022
Top in the NE out of 4 institutions, 93 institutions in total.
What Uni?
Student Choice Awards (WUSCA) 2025
Award, league table and survey information archive

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/ofsted.cfm:
Teesside University has once again been rated Outstanding by Ofsted for our apprenticeship provision .
This achievement isn't about us, it's about what it means for the businesses and apprentices we partner with.
When you choose an Outstanding provider, you're investing in quality, consistency and results that directly impact your business.
Let's talk More about our apprenticeships
An Ofsted Outstanding rating is a mark of excellence in apprenticeship delivery.
It reflects our commitment to providing high-quality teaching, tailored support and impactful learning experiences.
For businesses, it means:
Apprenticeships designed around your business needs, delivering the skills that matter most.
Apprentices gain practical skills they can apply immediately within your organisation.
Our programmes are crafted to meet your specific business goals and challenges.
With an Outstanding provider, you can trust in the consistency and high standards of delivery.
Apprenticeships that drive real business impact and support long-term growth.
We partner with organisations across sectors to deliver tailored apprenticeship solutions that drive results.
Our focus on collaboration ensures apprentices not only succeed but make a measurable difference in the workplace.
As a commercial business, we needed a partner who understood our priorities and could adapt to our needs.
Teesside delivered on every front.
Laura Bell, Head of Organisation Development, Bellway Homes
Working with Teesside has been fantastic.
They've really done their research.
Judith Harry, Chief Executive, Site Gallery
This collaboration has not only empowered the Trust's employees, but has also reinforced the company reputation as a progressive and supportive workplace.
Caroline Hamilton, Learning and Development Operational Team Lead, NHS South Tees Hospitals
For many apprentices, the experience has a transformational impact on their careers and lives.
Ofsted, 2025
Most apprentices achieve well and rapidly develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours to progress very successfully in their careers.
Leaders ensure that their apprenticeship strategy is underpinned by a strong commitment to widening participation and improving social mobility.
From advanced manufacturing to health and social care, our apprenticeship programmes are designed to meet the evolving needs of diverse sectors.
We offer:
Our tailored approach ensures that every apprentice becomes a strategic asset, helping your business grow and thrive.
Ready to explore how an Outstanding apprenticeship provider can support your business goals?
Our team of experts will work with you to design a bespoke apprenticeship strategy that aligns with your organisation's needs.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/pressreleases_story.cfm:
Teesside University Online (TU Online) has announced a strategic partnership with FutureLearn, one of the UK’s leading online learning platforms, to promote a range of 100% online courses to learners worldwide.
Aged 15-16, the students won the British Educational Services Group (BESA) football tournament in Cairo, which features hundreds of competitors from high schools across the city.
The tournament winners were awarded a free visit to the UK, to visit the University, stay on campus, explore the local area, meet staff, and experience the culture.
Teesside University is now open for applications through Clearing, and we’re here to support you every step of the way on your journey to higher education.
13 Aug 2025
Teesside University leads global student innovation in...
New partnership to expand global access to online education
Egyptian-athletes visit the University and Middlesbrough...
Connect with us

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/minisites/campus_masterplan/index.cfm:
With £280m invested to date, the campus masterplan sets out a dynamic and ambitious programme of investment to 2027, transforming the campus and providing vibrant and modern facilities to enhance the experience of students, staff and partners.
We are transforming our campus over the next five years to reinforce our commitment to providing an outstanding student and learning experience.
Recent developments in phase 1 (2017-2022) of our campus masterplan include: refurbishment of the library, relocation of professional services staff to The Printworks, a new all-weather sports facility and gym, the National Horizons Centre, a biomedical teaching and research facility at the University's Darlington campus, a major building refurbishment to create the Teesside University International Business School and ongoing transformation of existing residential accommodation.
We are committed to investing in our estate to further enhance the experiences of our students, the business community, and the wider communities we serve.
We have also recently completed the Student Life building for all student-facing services, and the Cornell Quarter (our new purpose-built 300 bed residential accommodation facility) along with repurposing the Victoria building to provide business enterprise incubation space and improvements to the Darlington Campus to further support our health and life sciences offer.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/adt:
We are an ambitious and enterprising university for a focused and pragmatic global new generation.
We provide real opportunities and support to realise potential on a campus fit for the future and around the world.
From developing outstanding degree apprenticeships tailored to industry to addressing the societal challenges on a global scale, our work is always relevant and purpose-driven.
We value education and research which is innovative, creative and supports the development of solutions to real world challenges.
We work with individuals and businesses to develop solutions that deliver ambition today.
We're the only University in the North East to receive a rating of gold overall as well as for student experience and student outcomes.
We believe in the power of education to transform lives and that people from all walks of life, who have the talent to succeed, should have the opportunity to experience higher education.
We put our students at the heart of everything we do.
We are a high-performing global institution, committed to delivering an outstanding student and learning experience.
As an anchor institution and economic engine, we work in partnership with local organisations and businesses, contributing to our region in a way many universities aspire to.
Professor Paul Croney OBE Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive
Teesside University transforms lives through education, placing students at the heart of a future-facing, inclusive, and digitally empowered experience.
The University leads the way in addressing economic, health, and environmental challenges through transformative research and collaboration, driving local renewal and global impact.
As a global institution, we deliver an excellent international student experience through partnerships across the world.
Delivering service excellence across core functions underpins all University activity.
The University has seven core values:
Values and Behaviours framework
Teesside University’s commitment to digital teaching and learning has seen it become recognised as an Apple Distinguished School.
Teesside University’s continuing commitment to developing and supporting its employees has once again been rewarded with a prestigious Investors in People (IiP) Gold award.
Teesside University has been named University of the Year for Social Inclusion in an influential national league table.
A new report highlighting the positive impact of international students has shown that just one year’s intake is worth over £240m to the Tees Valley economy
Setting out the approach that Teesside University is taking to maximise the delivery of positive social impact across all core business.
Teesside University is focussed on making a real difference to the lives of people and the success of businesses and the economy.
TOTAL INCOME
OVER
ADVANCE SCHEME INVESTMENT
LAST 5 YEARS
Over £132m, from cash reserves, invested in our campuses
The amount of money we gave to our students in bursaries and scholarships
> SECURED DEBT < of 1% of total income
AVERAGE ANNUAL CASH SURPLUS OVER LAST FIVE YEARS
SERVICES AND FACILITIES SPEND PER STUDENT
We have more than 150,000 alumni from over 150 different countries, as part of a larger global community of Teesside graduates
iPads, keyboards and cases deployed to first year undergraduates
Through our on-campus business support, our 560+ graduates have launched over 560 new businesses.
Tees Valley
North East
UK
Overall this indicates that Teesside University supports a total of
The combined human capital impact is estimated to be
Figures taken from the Teesside University Economic Impact Study: Summary report for the period 2018/19, produced by New Skills Consulting in January 2020.
Find out more .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/factsandfigures.cfm:
Sources:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/financial_information.cfm:
In 2023-24 our total income was £222.1m, this income is derived from a number of sources, which is shown below.
The income is used to support a wide range of activities including research-based teaching and learning, research, enterprise & knowledge exchange to ensure that we deliver an outstanding student and learning experience, putting students at the heart of everything we do.
Tuition fees & Education Contracts totalling over £174m represent a significant proportion of our total income.
These contribute to the £208m costs necessary to create a stimulating learning environment which enables us to deliver an outstanding student and learning experience by putting the students at the heart of everything we do.
We integrate research into teaching and knowledge transfer to develop real world application and equip our students with the skills and experiences to enhance their future employment prospects.
Through robust management of the University's finances surpluses are reinvested into our campuses.
The University has invested £142m in the Middlesbrough and Darlington campuses, facilities, laboratories equipment and technology since August 2019 from cash reserves - reinforcing our commitment to providing an outstanding student and learning experience.
Over the last 5 years this investment has included:
You can read, download or print the annual report and financial statements.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/jobs/index.cfm:
Team Teesside is a passion, it's more than just phrase,
Embedded deep within it's a culture each of us portrays,
We all support each other to achieve our very best, 
With innovation and communication the key to our success,
We may be small, but mighty.
We inspire, and we have spirit,
I'm proud to be Team Teesside and so is everyone who's in it.
Jessica Doyle, Senior Sport Assistant , Teesside Sport
To me, Team Teesside means family.
In my 12 years here, from my car journey to work and the walk up to my office, every passing colleague feels like family - from distant relatives to close siblings.
Every member of Team Teesside to me is reflective of family and the values we live and breathe reflect this.
Gary Singh, Deputy Director of Legal and Governance Services, Legal & Governance Services
Team Teesside means feeling supported by colleagues that care and ask if you’re okay and really mean it, and inspirational provision for local students who never thought they’d get to go to university.
Helen Kirk, PhD student , School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/sexual_misconduct_violence.cfm:
This page sets out the University's comprehensive source of information on such matters with relevant links to information, policies, regulations and other resources that will support and direct students and University staff on such issues.
Students of the University that study at one of the University's collaborative partners will find additional relevant information on the collaborative partners website.
Support is available to any Teesside University student who has experienced harassment, sexual violence and/or any other form of abuse.
Support for students
Support, advice and guidance is available for any member of staff who has experienced harassment, sexual violence and/or any other form of abuse.
Support for staff
Teesside University promotes positive cultural change within our university community.
Our Consent Matters training provides vital information on consent, communication skills, relationships and looking out for others.
This training will be rolled out following induction and students will be kept informed about it through regular student communications and via their academic schools.
The University aims to provide a safe working environment and eliminating sexual harassment is a proactive duty for the University.
To ensure that all staff are aware of their responsibilities you are required to complete this course.
We understand that the content of this course can be distressing and may be triggering to some.
Resources to support your emotional well-being
(Navigate to 'Organisations' and then to 'Staff Mandatory Training')
Training for staff
This form allows you to report an incident that you would like Teesside University to be aware of.
Examples of which include harassment, assault, sexual misconduct and bullying.
You will be able to choose whether to make this report anonymously or with your contact details.
Report an incident
View the regulations for students related to any incidents of harassment, misconduct or any negative behaviour.
Regulations for students
View the regulations for staff related to any incidents of harassment, misconduct or any negative behaviour.
Regulations for staff
For previous academic year regulations please contact f.parry@tees.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/semesterdates.cfm:
The University's academic year is divided into semesters.
There are standard semester dates for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students based at Teesside University's Middlesbrough campus.
Please note that some courses may follow different delivery models, including different start and end dates and possible study during the summer semester.
Please speak to your course leader or check with your School for more information.
Students are reminded that these are generic dates for the University and you should check with your course leader for the specific dates applying to your course.
Dates are subject to review at Academic Board on an annual basis.
Welcome week: 16-20 September 2024
Semester 1: 23 September 2024 - 17 January 2025 Semester 2: 20 January - 16 May 2025 Semester 3: 19 May - 22 August 2025
Holiday dates for standard undergraduate students
Winter break: 16 December 2024 - 3 January 2025 Spring break: 7 April - 25 April 2025 Summer break: 19 May - 19 September 2025
Welcome week: 15-19 September 2025
Semester 1: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Semester 2: 19 January - 15 May 2026 Semester 3: 18 May - 21 August 2026
Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Spring break: 30 March - 17 April 2026 Summer break: 18 May - 25 September 2026
Start date: 15 January 2024 End date: 16 January 2026 All standard breaks apply.
Year 1
Semester 1: 15 January 2024 - 17 May 2024 Spring break: 25 March 2024 - 12 April 2024 Summer break: 20 May 2024 - 20 September 2024
Semester 2: 23 September 2024 - 17 January 2025 Winter break: 16 December 2024 - 3 January 2025
Year 2
Semester 1: 20 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring break: 7 April 2025 - 25 April 2025 Summer break: 19 May 2025 - 19 September 2025
Semester 2: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026
Postgraduate Taught - January 2024 start (two year)
Start date: 13 May 2024 End date: 16 January 2026
Semester 1: 13 May 2024 - 23 August 2024 Summer break: 26 August 2024 - 20 September 2024
Semester 1: 20 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring break: 7 April - 25 April 2025 Summer break: 19 May - 19 September 2025
Postgraduate Taught - May 2024 start (two year)
Start date: 16 September 2024 End date: 19 September 2025 The winter break and spring break apply.
Semester 1: 16 September 2024 - 17 January 2025 Winter Break: 16 December 2024 - 3 January 2025
Semester 2: 20 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring Break: 7 April 2025 - 25 April 2025
Semester 3: 19 May 2025 - 19 September 2025
Start date: 16 September 2024 End date: 15 May 2026 All standard breaks apply.
Semester 2: 20 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring Break: 7 April 2025 - 25 April 2025 Summer Break: 19 May 2025 - 19 September 2025
Semester 1: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Semester 2: 19 January 2026	15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 January 2025 start (16 months) Start date: 13 January 2025 End date: 15 May 2026 Semester 1: 13 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring Break: 7 April 2025 - 25 April 2025 Summer break: 19 May 2025 - 19 September 2025 Semester 2: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Semester 3: 19 January - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 January 2025 start (two year) Start date: 13 January 2025 End date: 22 January 2027 Year 1 Semester 1: 13 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring Break: 7 April 2025 - 25 April 2025 Summer break: 19 May 2025 - 19 September 2025 Semester 2: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Year 2 Semester 1: 19 January 2026 - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 Summer break: 18 May 2025 - 25 September 2026 Semester 2: 28 September 2026 - 22 January 2027 Winter break: 21 December 2026 - 8 January 2027 May 2025 start (one year) Start date: 12 May 2025 End date: 15 May 2026 The winter break and spring break apply.
Semester 1: 19 May 2025 - 22 August 2025 Summer break: 25 August 2025 - 19 September 2025 Semester 2: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Semester 3: 19 January 2026 - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 May 2025 start (two year) Start date: 12 May 2025 End date: 22 January 2027 The winter break and spring break apply.
Please note that the delivery pattern for May 2025 start (two year) is as follows: Semester 1: May - August (Taught) Semester 2: September - January (Taught) Semester 3: January - May (Advanced/Applied Practice) Summer break Semester 4: September - January (Dissertation) Year 1 Semester 1: 19 May 2025 - 22 August 2025 Summer break: 25 August 2025 - 19 September 2025 Semester 2: 22 September 2025 - 16 January 2026 Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Year 2 Semester 1: 19 January 2026 - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 Summer break: 18 May - 25 September 2026 Semester 2: 28 September 2026 - 22 January 2027 Winter break: 21 December 2026 - 8 January 2027
Semester 2: 19 January 2026	15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026
Start date: 13 January 2025 End date: 15 May 2026
Semester 1: 13 January 2025 - 16 May 2025 Spring Break: 7 April 2025 - 25 April 2025 Summer break: 19 May 2025 - 19 September 2025
Semester 3: 19 January - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026
Start date: 13 January 2025 End date: 22 January 2027
Semester 1: 19 January 2026 - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 Summer break: 18 May 2025 - 25 September 2026
Semester 2: 28 September 2026 - 22 January 2027 Winter break: 21 December 2026 - 8 January 2027
Start date: 12 May 2025 End date: 15 May 2026 The winter break and spring break apply.
Semester 1: 19 May 2025 - 22 August 2025 Summer break: 25 August 2025 - 19 September 2025
Semester 3: 19 January 2026 - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026
Start date: 12 May 2025 End date: 22 January 2027 The winter break and spring break apply.
Please note that the delivery pattern for May 2025 start (two year) is as follows: Semester 1: May - August (Taught) Semester 2: September - January (Taught) Semester 3: January - May (Advanced/Applied Practice) Summer break Semester 4: September - January (Dissertation)
Semester 1: 19 January 2026 - 15 May 2026 Spring break: 30 March 2026 - 17 April 2026 Summer break: 18 May - 25 September 2026 Semester 2: 28 September 2026 - 22 January 2027 Winter break: 21 December 2026 - 8 January 2027
Start date: 15 September 2025 End date: 18 September 2026 The winter break and spring break apply.
Start date: 15 September 2025 End date: 21 May 2027 All standard breaks apply.
Winter break: 15 December 2025 - 2 January 2026 Spring break: 30 March - 17 April 2026 Summer break: 20 May - 20 September 2026
The University's online learning courses have up to three entry points - with the exception of Teesside University Open Learning in Engineering courses which have monthly intakes.
Entry points may differ between courses, please check the individual course page for details.
Entry point 1: 23 September 2025 Entry point 2: 19 January 2026 Entry point 3: 18 May 2026

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/policies.cfm:
Teesside University believes that individuals should be able to achieve their full potential and is committed to creating an inclusive campus that embraces diversity and supports students across the whole lifecycle from accessing higher education through to successful progression.
This commitment is set out in our Access and participation statement.
View our Access and participation statement
Protests and the establishment of encampments on University campuses has become prevalent in recent times due to tensions caused in local communities by global conflicts.
The University recognises that such global conflicts can often be of grave concern to, and impact members of our University community.
Protests on campus statement
Our CCTV policy aims to ensure that CCTV on Teesside Universityï¿½s premises is operated to enhance safety, and the sense of safety.
CCTV Policy CCTV Code of Practice
If an individual or organisation external to the University wishes to complain about how its staff or students have acted, and/or the level of service they have received, they should submit a complaint in accordance with this procedure to the Student Casework Office (SCO) Procedure for complaints made by persons external to Teesside University
Teesside University stands strongly for social inclusion and has always been committed, in principle and in practice, to the economic, social and cultural success of the communities that it serves.
Corporate social responsibility framework
All personal data processed by the University is done so in accordance with the requirements and safeguards of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
More information about how the University processes personal data
This statement is in response to the Statement of Intent issued by the Quality Council for UK Higher Education, whereby Higher Education Providers in England are expected to publish an explanation of their Degree Outcomes and Classification Algorithm(s) for undergraduate (Level 6) awards.
View Executive Summary View our Degree Outcomes Statement
We welcome applications from every section of the community as part of our commitment to equality of opportunity within a diverse working and learning environment.
Equality and diversity policies
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 allows access to information held by public bodies including universities, subject to some exemptions.
More about the Freedom of Information Act
If you would like copies of the most recent Governors' Report and Financial Statements, please ring 01642 342720.
Governors' report and financial statements
Our health and safety staff have put together information to advise you on all health and safety issues as well as guide you through some of the emergency situations that might arise and how you can cope with them.
Health and safety procedures Security, emergency, first aid and lost property
This statement is made pursuant to s.54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps that the University has taken and is continuing to take to ensure that modern slavery or human trafficking is not taking place within our business or supply chain.
Modern slavery statement
As an organisation using the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checking service to help assess the suitability of applicants for positions of trust, Teesside University complies fully with the DBS Code of Practice regarding the correct handling, use, storage, retention and disposal of certificates and certificate information.
The Counter Terrorism and Security Act (2015) places the University as a Relevant Higher Education Body or RHEB under a duty to have due regard to the need to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism or extremism.
Known as the 'Prevent Duty' this requirement refers to both staff and students at the University and we are required to report on our progress to the Office for Students to which the Government has given monitoring responsibilities.
The Prevent Duty
Please see the University's General Conditions of Contract which apply to goods and services bought by the University unless otherwise stated or agreed between the parties.
The quality framework describes the University's strategic approach to quality management, setting out its key features.
Quality framework
When you think a student or colleague may be vulnerable to radicalisation.
Referral Guidance
Teesside University aims to adopt high standards in relation to the safety and welfare of Children, Young People and Adults at Risk.
More about Safeguarding
Campus Security are responsible for ensuring a safe environment for staff, students and visitors.
We are based in the University Library and are on hand 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year More about Campus Security
A new University no-smoking policy was launched, to coincide with 1 July 2007 when virtually all enclosed public places and workplaces in England became smoke-free.
More about Smoke-free campus Smoking and Vaping Policy
The handbook provides comprehensive information about the University's services, facilities and regulations for full-time and part-time students.
Student handbook
From student attendance and plagiarism, to complaints procedures and fees and charges - we set out regulations to make sure our students are treated fairly and get most out of their time at the University.
Student regulations
The University has a formal statement to demonstrate its zero tolerance approach to the facilitation of tax evasion, entitled 'Tackling Tax Evasion Statement (Criminal Finances Act 2017)'.
Tackling tax evasion statement
We believe that university should be accessible to anyone who wishes to participate and has the ability to succeed in higher education.
We are committed to transforming lives and we are proud of our continued success in access and participation.
View our Transparency return
Academic Staff If you book a guest lecturer to deliver or part-deliver a scheduled lecture, it is your responsibility to ensure that they are aware of and abide by the policy and follow the guidance.
Departmental Staff If you organise an external speaker/presenter as part of your agreed schedule of departmental activities, it is your responsibility to ensure that they are aware of and abide by the policy and follow the guidance.
.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/london:
Find your course Book your open day
Find your course Call 020 3960 9333
Based at Here East on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Creating a collaborative learning experience.
Assessment is included within your modules.
Specialising in business, gaming, visual effects, computer science and cyber security.
Study a course that helps you work with impact and innovation within a sustainable global digital economy.
We support you to be employable and to employ, to be future-focused and ready for now.
To collaborate and to challenge thinking.
More details
We support businesses and help to solve challenges, driving your workforce forward.
Find out more about partnering with Teesside University London.
14 Aug
13 Aug

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/contact.cfm:
Use the link in the bottom corner of this page to chat live to us.
For information on admissions, general entry requirements and how to apply : International enquiries T: +44 (0) 1642 738900 E: internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk
For information about your fee status and application after you have applied: International applications and offers T: +44 (0) 1642 843103 E: international.admissions@tees.ac.uk
For information on how to pay, fees, scholarships and the bursary : Finance T: +44 (0)1642 342277 E: studentlife@tees.ac.uk
For general information about studying at Teesside, the Summer School, English courses before you start and exchange programmes : International Development T: +44 (0)1642 384276 E: international.office@tees.ac.uk
If you are already an international student at Teesside University, or applying to Teesside from within the UK:
For information about visas and remaining in the UK as a student: E: international@tees.ac.uk
Address: International Development University House Teesside University Middlesbrough Tees Valley TS1 3BX UK
Complete the short form below and an adviser will contact you.
Search courses starting September and January
Get information specific to your country.
A great option if you don't meet entry requirements
Chat to us and get information instantly.
Teesside University crowned as Modern University of the Year...

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/london/about/find_us.cfm:
TEESSIDE UNIVERSITY LONDON Press Centre Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park (Here East) 14 East Bay Lane London E15 2GW
You can catch a free shuttle bus to Here East from Stratford International and Stratford City Station.
It runs every 5-8 minutes during the week.
Stratford Underground Station is connected to the Central Line, Jubilee Line, Docklands Light Railway, Elizabeth Line and London Overground.
Stratford International is a national rail station - it's seven-minutes from St Pancras International and Kings Cross.
The Elizabeth Line links Stratford to London Heathrow Airport, Paddington Station, Liverpool Street, Canary Wharf.
The nearest airport is London City Airport.
Other local airports are London Gatwick Airport, London Stansted Airport, London Heathrow Airport, London Luton Airport.
You can take Cycle Superhighway 2 from Liverpool Street Station or London Bridge Station.
Or the Thames Path from the Cutty Sark in Greenwich to the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Path, past the Thames Barrier and Millennium Dome.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/information_governance/privacy.cfm:
Teesside University is a registered Data Controller and is subject to the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA); two pieces of legislation that control the way organisations use personal data in order to protect the privacy of individuals.
The legislation balances an individual's right to privacy with the need of organisations to use information about an individual for legitimate purposes.
Teesside University aims to process all personal data in accordance with the requirements and safeguards of Data Protection legislation.
The University's approach to Data Protection is set out in our Data Protection Policy and Code of Practice .
This Policy and Code of Practice contains links to other key Information Governance Policies, including Information Security which deals with how the University keeps your data safe.
The University has a wide range of functions and services which necessitate the processing of personal data.
The University processes personal data of students, staff, alumni, research participants, visitors and individuals who work with the University.
We are committed to be open and transparent about how we deal with your information.
You may have been given privacy information (in the form of privacy notices or fair processing notices) at various points in your contact with the University.
The privacy notices below provide general privacy information for specific groups of individuals.
Data Protection legislation provides individuals (Data Subjects) with a number of rights with regard to their personal data.
These are explained in our privacy notices and include a right to receive a copy of the personal data being processed, known as a Data Subject Access Request or DSAR.
To exercise any of your rights free of charge, you can send an email to dpo@tees.ac.uk , detailing the nature of your request, or complete our Data Subject Rights Request form .
To ensure compliance with legislation, and to maintain confidentiality, we may require proof of your identity.
We may also require additional information from you to assist us in undertaking targeted searches for the information you require or to otherwise enact your rights.
Once in receipt of this information, we will normally respond to you within one calendar month.
However, requests to access personal data  which are particularly complex or extensive, require us to extend the timeframe by up to two months (this will mean responding within a total of three months).
The right of subject access only applies to personal data relating to the data subject.
As such, information relating to third parties or any information that does not relate to the data subject may be redacted (removed) from the information that is disclosed.
If you wish to make a subject access request or enact any of your data protection rights, please provide the details of your request, including information to assist us in identifying you, to the contact details below.
The University has appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) in compliance with Article 37 of the UK GDPR.
Our DPO can be contacted by email at dpo@tees.ac.uk by telephone on 01642 342093 or in writing to the following postal address:
The Data Protection Officer Legal & Governance Services Teesside University Middlesbrough TS1 3BX

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/copyright.cfm:
© Teesside University 2025 All pages, documents, images and graphics or other materials within the www.tees.ac.uk domain are copyright Teesside University (unless otherwise stated) under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 and any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof.
The University owns the copyright in its logotypes and all other promotional logos.
Unauthorised use of these by others is prohibited.
The express permission of the University must be obtained to reproduce materials other than for the purposes permitted by law.
You can:
You cannot:
Please note that if you are visiting this website from a country other than the UK, that copyright laws in your country may be different.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/information_governance/foi.cfm:
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 provides a general public right of access to information which is held by the University.
The Act came into force in 2005 to promote a culture of openness and accountability in the public sector, enabling a better understanding of how public bodies carry out their functions, why they make the decisions they do, and how they spend public money.
As a public body, the University is committed to transparency in its public operations.
However, not all of the University's operations are publicly funded and the Higher Education sector is extremely competitive.
The University's approach to Freedom of Information is influenced by this and is guided by the ICO Guidance for universities and other Higher Education Institutions.
Section 1(1) of the Freedom of Information Act:
Any person making a rquest for information to a public authority is entitled:
a) to be informed in writing whether that information is held by the authority, and b) if that is the case, to have that information communicated to him.
FOI Officer
FOI and EIR Teesside University Middlesbrough TS1 3BX

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/cookies.cfm:
Users are not required to register or provide any personal data in to use this website.
Information about you is only collected through this website where you knowingly provide it for a specified purpose, for example requesting publications, booking events, submitting queries or making applications.
Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer by websites that you visit.
Cookies are used to collect information about site visits to assist with the system administration of the website.
This includes data such as the referring URL, the requested URL, software used to access the page, and IP (Internet Protocol) address, which may or may not identify an individual computer.
You can control the use of cookies, for example, whether or not they are blocked, through your computer’s web browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them visit www.aboutcookies.org or www.allaboutcookies.org
The University uses a third party product, Google Analytics, to analyse how its website is used.
This involves the transmission of data to Google Inc, where it will be subject to Google's Privacy Policy .
To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/prevent.cfm:
The Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 requires all Universities to have 'due regard to the need to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism'.
This is known as the Prevent Duty.
More about Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015
There are two documents published by the Government which outline Universities' obligations under the Prevent Duty:
The University takes a proactive, safeguarding-focused approach to implementing our Prevent duty.
Individuals at risk of radicalisation are covered by our Safeguarding Children and Adults at Risk Policy along with children, young people and adults at risk.
Each department has a named Designated Safeguarding Officer who can provide advice to colleagues about referral routes and can talk through concerns.
Key front-line staff are given training on what to do when they are concerned for a student's welfare, for any reason, and we offer a wide range of support and advice services to all students.
Safeguarding Children and Adults at Risk Policy
Teesside University is committed to keeping all of our staff, students and visitors safe and whilst we will all have different levels of interaction with the Prevent agenda, we can all play our part in achieving this ambition.
We have to remember that 'radical' thought is not negative; indeed most great innovations are the result of radical thinking and that being at University is rightly a time when students are experimenting with new thoughts and political ideas.
However when these become so far from the norm that an individual sees violence or unlawful actions as legitimate, then we need to intervene.
We need to be aware that radicalisation can take place in many forms, face-to-face, via the internet and can be linked to a variety of causes, or none, as is sometimes the case with 'lone wolves' who act without any apparent ideology.
Teesside University considers that everyone can be radicalised and whilst there is no set pattern as to how this occurs or definitive list of what to look out for, the following might indicate a student or colleagues who needs some additional support: Isolation from family, religion or culture Look out for anyone struggling to adapt to university life, not mixing well with their fellow students or colleagues or who actively avoids diverse groups of people Changes in peer group Be aware of students who change their friendship group significantly or completely and who spend long periods of time away with unusual people Extreme political activism or possession of extremist literature Notice any sudden and significant increases in interest in the activities of extremist groups Sudden changes in religious practice Either becoming more or less active Accessing violent and hate rhetoric or expressing violent or hate opinions in class or the workplace Be aware of any concerning activity on social media Suspicions items Large amounts of money, multiple personal documents, peroxide fertiliser and unusual cooking appliances which may indicate the production of home-made explosives
Look out for anyone struggling to adapt to university life, not mixing well with their fellow students or colleagues or who actively avoids diverse groups of people
Be aware of students who change their friendship group significantly or completely and who spend long periods of time away with unusual people
Notice any sudden and significant increases in interest in the activities of extremist groups
Either becoming more or less active
Be aware of any concerning activity on social media
Large amounts of money, multiple personal documents, peroxide fertiliser and unusual cooking appliances which may indicate the production of home-made explosives
The University does not expect individual students or members of staff to identify the reasons someone may need support, therefore any concerns should be referred.
In the case of students, please contact a senior manager in resilience, sport and wellbeing:
Telephone (direct dial): (01642) 342101, 342253 or 384247
If you have concerns about a colleague, telephone a Deputy Director in Human Resources:
Telephone (direct dial): (01642) 342209
If at any time, 24/7, you become aware of a student or colleague who is at imminent risk of harming themselves or others.
Telephone the University Security Team's 24/7 emergency numbers: 01642 342086 or 3200.
Please note that there is no email option.
If you feel a student or member of staff may be vulnerable, it is imperative that you discuss your concerns with the appropriate colleague as soon as possible.
Colleagues and students at both at both Middlesbrough and Darlington campuses should follow the same procedures.
Channel is a multi-agency process which ensures vulnerable people of any faith, ethnicity or background receive support before their vulnerabilities are exploited by people drawing them into harm.
Channel is not a criminal matter - it is a multi-agency process to provide support to prevent a person from being drawn into terrorism.
If there is sufficient evidence of concerns that a student or staff member may be at risk of being radicalised, the University (and not individual students or members) has a legal duty to refer that individual to Channel.
The University would consider information from student or staff welfare concerns before making a decision to refer a person to Channel.
Participation in the Channel process is voluntary, it cannot be forced on an individual and student or staff welfare concerns will always be considered before making a decision to refer a person to Channel.
Implementation of the Prevent Duty in the HE sector is monitored by Office for Students (OfS).
Each Higher Education Institution must provide an annual report to OfS by 1 December each year stating what it has done over the previous year to ensure that the duty is implemented.
Following assessment of this report OfS writes back to the University to advise that in its opinion, the University does or does not have due regard to the need to prevent individuals from being drawn into terrorism.
More information about how the OfS monitors Prevent
All employers with apprentices should have an awareness of the following:
Safeguarding relates to the protection of the health and wellbeing of children, young people and vulnerable adults, enabling them to be free from abuse, neglect or exploitation.
We all play a vital role in safeguarding our apprentices and, as such, it is important that employers are aware of how to detect and report a safeguarding issue.
More information on Teesside University's approach to Safeguarding
The Department for Education have reinforced the need 'to create and enforce a clear and rigorous expectation on all schools to promote the fundamental British values of democracy, the rule of law, individual liberty and mutual respect and tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs'.
Teesside University is committed to upholding and actively promoting these values.
Respect and Tolerance - Our learners will develop an understanding of respect and tolerance through:
Individual Liberty - We seek to protect our learner's individual liberty through:
Democracy - Our learners will develop an understanding of democracy through:
Rule of Law - Our learners will develop a respect for the rule of law through:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/transparency_return.cfm:
The information published on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
Where the numerator or denominator rounds to 20 or less, the data are suppressed with an 'N'
Transparency return tables 2023

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/common/accessibility_statement.cfm:
This accessibility statement applies to the primary Teesside University website ( www.tees.ac.uk ) We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We have invested in the ReciteMe toolbar which allows users to customise the appearance of our website to make it easier to read and navigate.
The toolbar provides text to speech functionality, fully customisable styling features, reading aids and a translation tool with over 100 languages, including 35 text to speech voices and many other features.
Teesside University aims to make our web pages meet the WCAG 2.1 (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1) at level AA.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact: d.honeyman@tees.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Teesside University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
We plan to add text alternatives for all required images by December 2023.
When we publish new content we’ll make sure our use of images meets accessibility standards.
Some images are used as tracking pixels for marketing purposes and therefore won't have alt tags applied to them.
Carousel on Undergraduate page for Choose Teesside, Open days and Events fails WCAG 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships Certain ARIA roles must contain particular children) and WCAG 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value ARIA input fields must have an accessible name).
Further investigation is required.
There is no visible keyboard tab focus on the 'Ask us a question' widget when it is minimised.
As this is an external/third party plug in we have no control over the accessibility of this.
Further non-compliance content and issues will be identified using automated tools and added to this list.
We are not currently claiming that any accessibility problems would be a disproportionate burden to fix.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Where new PDFs or Word documents fail to meet accessibility standards, please report this as an accessibility problem using the contact details above.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Our 3D map may not be accessible to all users, but alternative PDF and google maps are provided for directional purposes.
Our site uses third-party content which may not be fully accessible.
This includes content we publish on social media channels such as Twitter or YouTube or the Chat widget.
We are responsible for ensuring the accessibility of the content we produce, however, we have no control over the accessibility of these platforms.
Teesside University is currently sourcing an accessibility tool that will help us identify and adhere to the WCAG 2.1 (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1) at level AA.
This will enable the ability to regularly scan the webpages and identify any issues and fixes, informing a schedule of when these fixes will be complete.
A roadmap of accessibility issues will be then published on these pages.
Training will be provided to increase awareness of accessibility to staff responsible for content or the development of the website.
This statement was prepared on 28 February 2023.
It was last reviewed on 26 July 2023.
This website was last tested in 2022.
The test was carried out by the web team in the Department of Student Recruitment & Marketing.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/accommodation.cfm:
Your home from home
Teesside University is a safe and friendly place where you will soon feel at home.
We offer a range of great accommodation at competitive prices, all within walking distance of the campus.
Whatever your choice, whether you want a halls experience, your own en suite or a shared house, we have a suitable place for you.
We'll make finding your home from home as simple as possible with a detailed overview of each residency and a number of student views sharing their own experiences.
And applying couldn't be easier - it's all done online.
More about our accommodation

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/adobe_creative_campus.cfm:
We’ve teamed up with Adobe to give you access to 20+ world-class, industry-standard creative apps including Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign – enabling you to supercharge your creative, communication and collaboration skills whatever your subject discipline.
Adobe Creative Cloud provides industry-leading creative tools and services for free.
Students studying onsite at our Middlesbrough or Darlington campus have access to 20+ apps and services, stock images, asset libraries and even the Behance community, to showcase your work.
The best part is you don’t even need to study a creative programme to take advantage, there are apps available to suit all academic programmes, which will develop your digital literacy across all disciplines.
To access Adobe Creative Cloud, use the link below and login using your Teesside University credentials.
Access your FREE Adobe Creative Cloud Learn & Certify in Adobe Apps
As a student at Teesside University, you have access to all the Creative Cloud apps and services from all your devices, enabling you to produce, collaborate and share your work, from anywhere at anytime.
Staff have been encouraged to inspire, support and teach you, how to utilise the Creative Cloud apps within your coursework, regardless of the degree you study.
With over 20+ apps available to you, there will be an app that will suit your needs and give you the edge as you prepare for life beyond University.
Here are some examples of the range of apps available to you:
You will need to login to the Adobe Creative Cloud using the sign in button at the top right of your screen.
And remember, Adobe Creative Cloud apps are FREE to you as a Teesside University student.
See how you can use some of these apps in your coursework
Using Adobe Creative Cloud apps will help you to future proof yourself for employment beyond your University experience.
The more skills you can demonstrate to a prospective employer, the more opportunities you can create for yourself.
Consider whether you can showcase your work through the annual Adobe Digital Edge Awards .
You can also learn at your own pace accessing a range of tutorials and self-help videos available on the Adobe Creative Cloud site .
If you are not able to access Adobe Creative Cloud or you need further advice about particular apps or support in using them, please contact our Digital Futures team through Student Life by either calling to the Student Life reception or emailing studentlife@tees.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/catering.cfm:
Teesside University Catering offers a range of bright, modern and comfortable outlets providing a huge selection of healthy and affordable snacks, hot and cold food and drinks to help fuel your study.
We cater for all tastes and preferences and also offer vegan, vegetarian and a selection of dietary preferences.
Located in the Student Life building, StrEAT is our newest venue and offers a selection of handmade and home cooked street food favourites from around the world, including:
More about Teesside University Catering

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/clubs.cfm:
Teesside University Students' Union has large number of societies that you can join.
Similarly, there are 20+ Sports Clubs that you could join, all of which sit within Teesside Sport.
Here are just a few reasons why you should get involved.
If we don't have a club or society for your thing, we can help you to set one up.
More about our sports clubs More about our societies

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/darlington.cfm:
The University has a campus at Darlington, located close to mainline rail and major road networks.
The National Horizons Centre (NHC) is located on this campus.
Academic delivery on this campus is predominantly School of Health & Life Sciences.
There is a Student Life Hub at Darlington, located in the School of Health & Life Sciences building on floor 1.
Information on services available to students through Student Life can be accessed through UNIverse .
View more general information about services .
Travel directions

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/events.cfm:
Check out the list below for everything from writing workshops, to social events, to wellbeing and fitness activities.
Life on campus includes events, workshops and activities that have been designed to support your student and academic journey while you are studying here at Teesside.
See the calendar below to view what is happening in the next month across Student Life, the Library, Olympia, Buttery and other University locations and how to get involved or attend.
View details of events and Library skills workshops in the next 2 weeks
The listing below details other University events that are taking place across campus.
Find out more and book onto an event.
06 Sep 9.00AM - 3.00PM Postgraduate open day
15 Oct 9.00AM - 3.00PM Postgraduate open day

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/safe.cfm:
Campus Security is responsible for ensuring a safe environment for staff, students and visitors.
We're based in the University Library and are on hand 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
We work hard to provide the best possible service to everyone within our campus community.
Our team is responsible for managing and responding to all incidents and SafeZone activations across the University.
We work alongside Cleveland Police Community Support Officers to provide safety and security advice to staff and students and to conduct regular high-visibility patrols on campus.
All of our Security Officers are first aid trained.
More about safety and security SafeZone

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/mental_wellbeing_support.cfm:
We provide access to a range of targeted and focussed mental health and wellbeing support services to support you during your time at university.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/news.cfm:
13 Jun 2025
A plant-based manufacturer’s new range, which has been supported by innovative research at Teesside University, will be supplied to over 20,000 students after the company secured a deal with the university.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/pay.cfm:
The preferred method of payment is online as it is the most timely, efficient and secure method.
For all payment information, options and to make a payment please use the link below.
More about making a payment

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/postgraduate.cfm:
The University has a vibrant postgraduate community on campus, both taught and research provision.
The campus provides an excellent postgraduate hub space, the Buttery.
Developed in partnership with students, an investment of £5m provides a contemporary and innovative space exclusively for postgraduate students and researchers to study, collaborate and relax.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/sport.cfm:
Teesside Sport provides on campus sports facilities and activities for students from beginners to more experienced sports players - don't miss out while you're here.
We have everything you need to enjoy sport and wellbeing at Teesside - whether you are an elite athlete competing at international level, or you just want to try a new sport, play with friends or access fitness facilities.
For those not looking to take part in sport there are also opportunities to work or volunteer - you can find what you're looking for with Teesside Sport.
Our facilities, qualified practitioners and scholarship and programme opportunities provide a great platform to offer athlete support.
We hold accreditations as a TASS Dual-career accredited institution to support dual-career athletes and a TASS accredited delivery site for external athletes.
TASS dual career policy
More about Teesside Sport

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/students_union.cfm:
You automatically become a member of the Teesside University Students’ Union (TUSU) when you enrol on a course here.
You don’t pay anything in advance, you don’t need to complete forms and you don’t need a membership card.
From left to right: Sai Dorapally (President Education), Clinton Aideloje (President Wellbeing), Ganesh Poshala (President International)
Find out more about our student officers
TUSU has a very close relationship with the University but operates independently.
It is completely student led with three Student Officers elected each year to oversee how it’s run and represents students to the University and external bodies.
No matter your age, background or how much time you can spare, TUSU has something for you.
More about Teesside University Students’ Union

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/welcome_home.cfm:
Welcome to Teesside, a place you'll test your mettle and find your steel.
Teesside Steel has bridged the world.
It enriches and changes lives.
Delivered across the University, the Belonging framework is a core deliverable of the Communities, Culture and International (CCI) Directorate within Student & Library Services.
The teams co-ordinate activity with Student & Library Services together with schools and departments across the University to support a holistic approach to Belonging.
Increased engagement with student body, delivering sense of ownership and belonging.
Collaborative approach with external stakeholders, improved communication channels and wider support for students
Annual reviews with students as co-creators.
Adapt according to impact analyis.
Wider communities
Students better able to proactively manage time.
Highlighting diversity of campus within context of support available to all.
Feedback loop for students to act as co-creators.
A more informed student body, able to engage with external local actors successfully and positively.
A student body able to appreciate and understand the wider social context of the University.
What a year!
That moment when September seems a distant memory, and we take time to reflect, relax and, most importantly, celebrate all that’s been achieved.
This year we have grown, learned, volunteered and progressed.
We’ve seen the diversity of our campus and our town and we are preparing for new adventures, whether on campus or onward to share honed Teesside Steel with the world.
Wherever you've come from, no matter how far you've travelled, however far you have yet to go, we’ll share the journey with you and cheer all of your achievements.
Congratulations on a year well lived.
Submit your favourite celebration
Makorokoto makuru mazviita
[Big congratulations, you did it]
This year I’ve really pushed myself , becoming a course rep and taking part in volunteering activities , which has helped me to feel part of the University.
Kundai MOYO, Zimbabwe
Happy for you, you have done well
I’ve really appreciated the environment at Teesside this year, it has helped me find a sense of belonging , both at University and with local cultural values.
I can’t wait to share my experience with friends and family at home.
Oluwatobi BADMUS, Nigeria
So pleased to see you accomplishing great things
This year I have grown through my studies and my presentation and communications skills have improved a lot.
It’s a great accomplishment.
Terry OSIFO, Nigeria
Well done
This year I got a new role at University, which has really helped me to develop.
Sam O’CALLAGHAN, UK
Amazing!
This phrase is happy and energetic and shows I care.
It’s a more personable way of sharing your enthusiasm for someone’s success.
This year I gained a work placement, and it’s really helped me develop, so I’m really proud of that.
Abby SECCOMBE, UK
This is a straightforward way of telling someone they have an achievement to be proud of .
My biggest success this year is getting onto my University course and finding my feet.
Kiran KAUR, UK
Congratulations
Congratulations celebrates an occasion and recognises hard work .
It is to the point and widely understood.
This year I’ve been surprised and inspired by my exam results.
I’m looking forward to taking this inspiration with me into my next year.
Aleisha STUBLEY, UK
但行好事，莫问前程
[Just do good deeds and do not worry about the future]
This phrase teaches that the good things you do now will build your future success .
It inspires me.
This year I’ve learned to ski, set up and led the TU Cinema Society and focussed on my studies.
Peijia DENG, China
Mubarak
[Blessed]
This Urdu word is used at celebratory occasions and suggests blessings and acknowledges achievement as being the result of hard work and dedication , and a gift from God.
I’m graduating with a First and an award for outstanding achievement.
I’ll be celebrating, but also preparing for my master’s at Teesside.
Aleeyah MAHMOOD, UK
Best wishes for your next adventure
Arriving at Teesside this year was a big step for me.
I’ve succeeded in gaining more knowledge.
Sunmola AKANBI, Nigeria
Congratulations and well done
I’ve achieved a lot this year , passing some assignments with 90%.
I’ve also found I can cope with the strains of University better, so I appreciate how far I’ve come.
Lauren CHATT, UK
मनापासून अभिनंदन
[Heartfelt congratulations]
I also share a warming hug because it’s important to express joy at achievement.
It’s comparable to the vitality of a festival.
I graduate this year and I’ve gained skills, knowledge and connections that I will cherish forever.
Mrunal RAUT, India
The starting point of all achievement is desire
This phrase reminds me that achievement isn’t just the outcome, it’s about the effort .
This year has been great.
I’ve done well academically, been more involved in University life as a student ambassador and joined a new club.
Jade HAWKINS, UK
Mabrouk مبروك
[Congratulations]
Good job boyo
Good job boyo!
This year has been good for me, I’m really proud of my maths and mechanical principles results.
I’ll be celebrating by taking a trip and letting my hair down with a party.
Ellis JOHNSON, UK
Bravo
This word is joyful , as though people are cheering together.
It means well done.
This year I have found belonging through my supportive lecturers and the people I have met.
Everyone has welcomed me.
Jeannine KABONGO, South Africa
Nice one pet!
This year I have used guided role play to gain new levels of comfort in my surroundings.
It’s really helped me to settle in.
Marie-Therese MCALINDEN, UK
Well done, brother!
This is a great, inclusive way to congratulate someone, and feels personal because ‘brother’ connects you more closely .
I am proudest of a friend who became a student officer at the University.
Celebrations are about everyone’s achievements, not just your own.
Bhann PRASAD, India
We're thrilled that our students are as enthusiastic about creating a home at Teesside as we are.
Our community and the diversity within it is one of our greatest strengths as a university.
So whether you say ‘ey up' (and argue about whether you should pronounce it ‘eye' or ‘ay'), or ‘how far?', ‘stick the kettle on' or ‘salam', we want to know how you welcome someone home.
Get involved, share what makes you feel that you belong, your welcomes and your pictures of home with us.
You might even see your favourite phrase pop-up in Student Life.
We'll be updating this page regularly with your favourite welcomes and teasing out some of the phrases you hear, but may not understand.
Over the course of the year we'll be celebrating your favourites, so keep checking back with us, voting for your favourite phrases, sharing your welcomes (and any confusion about phrases you hear).
Submit your favourite welcome home.
Submit now
NNọọ
[WELCOME]
Nigeria
I love to serve my community, blending human existence in with nature.
Teesside has given me opportunities to build genuine human relationships and contribute my resilience and strength to build strong and thriving communities.
A'WAY THEN, STICK THE KETTLE ON
England
As a student ambassador I've met a lot of interesting people from around the world and worked on all sorts of interesting projects.
These opportunities have helped me grow into someone stronger and are something that I won't forget.
HERE'S YOUR CUPPA
Being a part of Teesside, the University and the community has made me who I am today.
It has shaped me into someone confident and happy.
I love the place, the people are so friendly, the culture is constantly growing as is my knowledge, it's a fantastic place which I'm proud to now call home.
AS-SALAMU ALAYKUM
[Peace be upon you]
Teesside University embraces diversity and empowers students to get involved with university life, whether as a student ambassador or part of a club.
I bring my culture, traditions and heart with me to Teesside and found home in the welcome I have received from the University community.
THE KETTLE'S ON
Teesside helps you bridge the gap between home and university , so even when you miss your family and pets, you know you have the support to do amazing things.
I found my strength through the new friendships I made and the society I joined, eventually becoming the chair!
NICE TO SEE YOU
My home in Durham grounded me, gave me a sense of peace and centredness.
I came to Teesside with a willingness to learn.
In return Teesside has provided me with a new place to call home and a new friends to call my family.
I've grown stronger.
कशी आहेस प्रवास कसा झाला
[HOW ARE YOU?
HOW WAS YOUR JOURNEY?]
India
STUDENT LIFE Teesside for me meant two things, freedom and independence.
I have grown, become thoughtful and responsible.
India was like a protective shield for me, but I have found my strength and centre, and my life feels as though it has begun.
BIENVENIDO A CASA
[Welcome home]
I'm a local who loves to travel.
Experiencing new places and new cultures gives me a sense of peace that I bring with me to my studies, university life and take with me as I grow through the next adventure.
SELAMAT DATANG
[Welcome]
Singapore
Coming thousands of miles away from home, I had to adapt to the changes in lifestyle and living and be resilient to pursue success.
Teesside has grounded me and prepared me to set out on a new career.
STICK THE KETTLE ON
Teesside is a special place that brings together people from all walks of life.
In the North East there's a lot more than meets the eye and I wouldn't want to be anywhere else!
Teesside is a place of hidden beauty and this is what I take with me through my studies, it grounds me, and gems, like the Captain Cook Birthplace Museum, show me how far I can go.
EY UP!
Teesside University helped to bridge the gap between my worry of figuring out what I wanted to do and eventually finding my passion and ambition.
It helped me discover my passion and my steel , helping me become more independent and throw myself into life.
HOW FAR?
I brought a strong work ethic, determination and a passion to my studies.
Teesside has shown me the power of positivity, hope and a forward-thinking mindset.
This is my Teesside steel.
SALAM
[Hello]
I grew up here and Teesside University feels like home, not just because it is local, but because it includes international students at every stage.
The University has a diverse community that welcomes different cultures and I have been able to learn more about my Pakistani heritage through joining the University Pakistani Society, and meeting others with the same cultural background.
I feel stronger and more knowledgeable by strengthening my roots and my heritage together.
HIYA!
I'm from Teesside and I have always felt at home in the many green spaces in the area.
I take this love with me when I travel and look for green spaces that help me relax and feel tranquil.
In a way, I take Teesside with me wherever I go , and when I do, I feel like I belong.
Aw, good to see you
Scotland
Family grounds me.
Moving to Middlesbrough was difficult as I didn't know anyone, but I found my place as I built new friendships and leaned into friends and family at home to complete my degree.
Support through the highs and lows has made all the difference to me and has helped me to succeed.
Ę káàbò sí àárín wa èyin akęgbé mi.
Báwo ni ìrìnàjò yín?
Sé dáadáa lę dé?
Wíwá yín sí bí kìí se àsìse.
Mo nírètí wípé e máa fibí s'elé.
Mo gbàdúrà pé gbogbo nnkan yín a yorí sí rere.
[Welcome home my dear, I hope you arrived safely?
Your being here isn't a mistake.
I hope that you find a home here.
I wish you the best.]
I never thought a place other than Nigeria would ever be home, but Teesside has a tranquillity that makes me
We know that language takes on a life on its own, whether you say ‘nesh', ‘baltic' or ‘hoofing it', sometimes a phrase just doesn't translate outside your local area.
Or perhaps you've wondered why people in the North East have ‘dinner' at midday and ‘tea' in the evening (there is a great reason).
At Teesside, we love to hear these phrases and to learn what they mean.
So, whether it comes from Whitby, Ibadan, Marrakech or Mumbai, or somewhere else entirely, tell us about your favourite phrase, what it means and whether it translates outside of your home.
Equally, share with us a phrase that is strange to you, someone might just be able to tell you what it means.
We'd love to hear your favourite recipes so we can share them with your fellow students.
Please submit your recipe with as much information as possible including the ingredients, how to make it and how many people it serves.
We hope you enjoy giving some of them a try.
View Recipes Submit a recipe

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/appealing.cfm:
If you're not satisfied with a decision taken by the University, we are committed to supporting you to request a review or make an appeal.
If you want to submit an appeal or review request you should complete an application pack and send it (along with any supporting documentation) to sco@tees.ac.uk.
Advisers in the Students' Union are able to help you with appeal processes and you may wish to contact them to support you.
An adviser can be contacted by  emailing suss@tees-su.org.uk.
The role of Student Casework Office (SCO) is to ensure that you receive advice on matters relating to any issues or concerns which you may experience during your time at the University.
More about Student Casework Office (SCO)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/care_leaver_support.cfm:
We are committed to supporting young people in or leaving care to progress to higher education.
We offer a range of activities and support to looked after children, care leavers and their care workers to help raise aspirations, provide information and support, and to encourage care leavers to reach their potential.
The Care Leavers Bursary is available to UK full-time undergraduate students who are care leaver for a non-repayable bursary of £2,000 for every year you progress through your course with us.
Eligibility criteria applies.
This will be paid in three instalments throughout the year, for each year you study with us (based on progression to the next level of study).
To apply for the bursary, you must be a:
This bursary is given to you in addition to the financial support you will receive from your local authority and any student finance you may be eligible for (your grants and loans).
You will need to provide evidence of your status as a care leaver such as a letter from your personal adviser/social worker/pathway worker.
If you are unsure of the evidence needed to confirm your circumstances, please don't hesitate to get in touch with us.
If you have indicated that you are a care leaver on your UCAS application, we will contact you directly to invite you to apply for the bursary.
If you chose not to include your care leaver status on your UCAS application, you can email studentlife@tees.ac.uk who will send you application information.
We can also assist you with your application to Student Finance England to ensure that you are assessed correctly and receive all funding available to you.
If you need any help with your student funding application, please email studentlife@tees.ac.uk , who will be happy to help.
Teesside University can offer a full 365-day accommodation contract to any care leaver who needs it.
You can request this directly on your accommodation application.
If you would like further information regarding this please get in touch.
We understand that you may not want, or need, any extra support when you arrive, and this might remain the case for the length of your studies.
However, detail below are a guide on the support you could receive from our welfare and finance team and Katie Sykes, our dedicated member of staff for care leavers:
Teesside University is committed to supporting care-experienced students.
This is the collaborative, whole-institution response evidenced through the Care Leaver Covenant.
More about the Regional care leaver covenant
For general enquiries: studentlife@tees.ac.uk
T: 01642 342277 In person: Student Life, in the Campus Heart

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/coronavirus.cfm:
More about our guidance

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/counselling.cfm:
Our Counselling Service is dedicated to providing you with quality counselling and emotional support through a range of different pathways.
Our counselling team offer both in-person and online support.
You can email studentlife@tees.ac.uk with general enquires, or a specific request to access our counselling service: counselling@tees.ac.uk .
We would like every student to have a positive learning experience, however sometimes this can be affected by issues and feelings that are difficult to resolve.
These feelings often impact on other areas of your life and may affect your academic studies, your relationships with others, or your personal choices.
This is when counselling can help.
Counselling provides a safe and confidential space in which to explore your feelings or anything that that may be affecting your ability to function well.
Often, therapeutic work has a lifelong legacy and can equip you with the necessary skills to navigate your way through future challenges.
We want you to become a more effective learner in your personal and academic life.
We can help you to develop your life skills, resilience and mental health.
You can find out more information by viewing our FAQs .
To access counselling you will need to be an enrolled student currently on a course at Teesside University.
To access the Counselling Service, you will need to complete a counselling registration form .
There is a requirement for you to confirm on the registration form, that you have read and understood the Pre-therapy agreement .
This contains important information regarding confidentiality, data protection and the counselling process.
Once we have received your completed registration form, you will receive an acknowledgement of your request for support.
Whilst we try to offer assessments as soon as possible, timescales can vary depending on the level of demand for the service at peak times in the academic calendar.
You will be contacted via your student email account with an offer of a 30-minute assessment appointment.
Following your assessment, you will then be placed on a waiting list until a counselling appointment becomes available.
If you need general advice or guidance, you can speak to one of the Student Life Enquiry Advisors in the Student Life building, which is located in the Campus Heart.
T: 01642 342277
Student Life opening hours Monday - Friday: 8.00am - 6.00pm
We recognise that some students may have accessibility needs when attending an appointment.
This includes, but is not limited to, learning, communication and sensory difficulties as well as mobility, visual and hearing impairments.
If you would like to discuss any particular requirements, please email studentlife@tees.ac.uk in advance of your appointment and we can discuss any adaptations required to meet your individual needs.
All of our Counsellors are fully qualified and work within the BACP, BPS or BABCP codes of ethics and practice.
The theoretical perspectives vary across the team with some working in a solution focused way and others within a relational framework.
This means that we can match up your therapeutic needs to a suitable counsellor.
In a situation where we feel that our service is unable to meet your needs, for example, if it is assessed that you require longer term therapy or a specialist therapy provider, we will signpost or refer you into a suitable service.
We also work in partnership with an external counselling provider called Spectrum Life to enhance our ability to provide our students with counselling support at the point of need.
We reserve the right to share basic assessment details with them if a referral is made.
All counsellors in the service work to a high level of confidentiality.
They work within BACP or BPS or BABCP codes of ethics and practice.
If you would like more details about these codes of ethics please ask your counsellor.
These are the main exceptions to confidentiality:
Otherwise the Counselling Service will not reveal anything to anyone unless you ask us to do so.
This means that your academic school or tutor will not know that you are having counselling unless you want us to tell them.
This also applies to your family or partner.
If either your School or your family contact us, we will maintain this confidentiality, unless you have given us permission otherwise.
However, if we feel that you are at a high level of risk to yourself or others, and only if, we will look at maximising support for you through a multi-disciplinary approach which may involve talking or sharing information with other health professionals inside or outside the University.
We will always seek your permission to do this, however if you are in crisis this may not always be possible.
Our policy is to keep confidential case notes for six years in conformity with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and University Policy.
These case notes are a brief record of the session along with other relevant written materials.
The notes do not express any medical opinion on the part of the counsellor.
All notes and personal details are subject to a high degree of confidentiality and kept securely.
They are only accessible to Counselling Service Staff.
The fact that you are attending counselling will not appear on your course records, overall student record or on your medical records.
The Counselling Service offers one-to-one counselling within a time limited framework across a variety of different formats.
We operate from the Meeting House, which is located in King Edwards Square, a quiet space that suits in-person work.
But for those who are unable to get into campus, have placement commitments or personal reasons why in-person work would be difficult, our Counsellors offer video, audio, email and live chat counselling through Microsoft Teams.
Please contact counselling@tees.ac.uk if you have any further questions, or refer to the 'Self-help Resources' section where you will find an information brochure which should answer any questions you may have about counselling and enable you to make a considered choice about the most suitable therapeutic format for you.
Our Counsellors all have their own specialisms and personal therapeutic interests that include trauma work, issues that have come out of early attachment relationships, animal assisted therapy, sand tray therapy and difficulties with anger among others.
Most people experience grief when they lose something or someone important to them.
This could be:
We recognise that everyone's experience of grief is different and how this is experienced can feel destabilising.
Here at Teesside University, we have a 'Grief and Loss Pathway' to support anyone in these circumstances.
Moving through the stages of the pathway will depend on your individual situation.
You may find that the support within stage one meets your needs, however some will require support through all stages.
Stage 1: In the first instance, we have put together an information pack to help you understand what often happens to us when we are processing a loss.
Whatever you may be going through emotionally, mentally, or physically is likely to be a 'normal' human response to what has happened, although it may not feel anything like normal to you.
The pack will help you to understand how you are feeling and help you put in place strategies to support yourself.
Stage 2: If the information pack does not answer the questions you might have, or the feelings you are experiencing are ongoing, you can contact the Counselling Service via counselling@tees.ac.uk and request a 'Grief and Loss Session' which will be a one-hour session with a qualified counsellor where you can talk through what you are experiencing.
Stage 3: If after the 'Grief and Loss Session' you feel as though you would benefit from connecting from time to time with someone to talk through your process, you can make a request to be referred to our 'Listening Service' .
You can access up to 6 sessions over a six-month period with one of our mental health specialists, who will provide a listening ear and an opportunity to talk through your feelings.
Stage 4: In most cases, given time, people will move naturally through the grief process and will start to come to terms with the loss.
However, sometimes when the loss has been particularly traumatic or sudden, the grief can become stuck or 'complicated'.
If this happens, the 'Listening Service' will then refer you to the Counselling Service for therapeutic one-to-one support.
In collaboration with the Mental Health and Wellbeing teams, the Counselling Service deliver a workshop programme supporting key issues that you may require support with.
You may be referred to a workshop following your initial counselling assessment, however you can also request a place yourself.
Our current workshops include:
If this is something that you think you may be interested in, please email counselling@tees.ac.uk for further information.
The Counselling Services provided by Student and Library Services are offered free of charge .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/disability.cfm:
Teesside University is committed to removing barriers to learning for all our students.
We're proud to provide an inclusive and empowering learning environment that enables success for all.
We provide advice to students and applicants as well as help to arrange tailored support for students with long-term health conditions; sensory impairments; physical and mobility impairments; mental health conditions; autism spectrum conditions; and, specific learning difficulties.
We have a team of advisers who can assist you with:
For further information please see our Advice Guides: Accessing Disability Support at Teesside University
To notify us of a disability/health condition and request support complete our Disability Registration Form
You can contact Disability services by email: studentlife@tees.ac.uk
Alternatively, you can submit an enquiry through the Student Life Enquiry Team: T: 01642 342277 In person: Student Life based in the Campus Heart
Monday - Friday: 8.00am - 6.00pm
Disability Registration Form
Provide written evidence of your disability/health condition
Have a Student Support Plan (SSP) appointment
Consent to your finished SSP being shared with the necessary staff
You and the relevant staff will action your support recommendations
If you are a student with a disability or health-related need and want to arrange support for your course you need to start by completing a Disability Registration Form and submitting it to us along with evidence of your condition(s).
We would strongly advise you to do this early (i.e.
three months prior to enrolling on your course) as support can take time to set up.
Please read our Advice Guides: Accessing Disability Support at Teesside University which explains the process and the criteria for acceptable evidence.
Once you have completed the Disability Registration Form and submitted evidence to us you will be assigned an adviser who can talk to you about the available support and write a Student Support Plan (SSP) for you.
We also recommend applying for Disabled Students' Allowances through your funding body if eligible, as this process can also take some time to complete.
Once we have received your information, a set of standard reasonable adjustments will be put in place whilst you are waiting for your student support plan.
These adjustments include:
In your student support plan appointment, any additional adjustments will be discussed, and a full set of adjustments will be put in place.
Once you have submitted your Disability Registration form  and appropriate evidence to us you will be invited to attend a Student Support Plan appointment with a disability adviser.
In this appointment the adviser will discuss the impact of your condition; how this might affect your ability to carry out the different activities that will be requested of you as a student; and, the support that is available to help you.
Areas of study activity an adviser may want to discuss with you include (but are not limited to):
Following your appointment, and if you give your consent, a Student Support Plan (SSP) will be written by your adviser containing the relevant information about how your condition(s) may impact upon study activities, along with advice and recommendations for your teaching and support staff regarding reasonable adjustments.
Examples of reasonable adjustments are:
Your Student Support Plan will always be tailored to your individual needs and can be reviewed at any point should your circumstances change.
You can contact your adviser at any point during your course to request a review.
Disabled Students Allowances or DSAs is UK Government funding that we would recommend disabled students apply for, to cover any costs for additional study-related specialist support.
This may include funding for any specialist one-to-one support you may require (referred to as non-medical helper support); specialist equipment & software; additional disability-related travel costs; other additional disability-related expenses such as a general allowance for additional printing costs.
You are eligible for Disabled Student Allowances (DSAs) if the following criteria applies to you:
We would encourage you to check out the UCAS website which has excellent and accessible information on Disabled Students' Allowances, including helpful video guidance on how to apply.
Once a DSA application and medical evidence has been accepted by your funding body, you will receive an approval letter from your funding body asking you to arrange and attend a Study Needs Assessment.
A Study Needs Assessment is a meeting between yourself and a qualified Study Needs Assessor to identify what DSA-funded support and resources you require for your course, based upon your individual needs.
The DSA process is external to Teesside University processes.
Your adviser can guide you through the process however to check progress on an application or for other advice specific to your application, please contact your funding body directly .
For students who are ineligible for DSAs (such as apprentice and international students), access to specialist, funded support will be discussed in your Student Support Plan appointment and, if appropriate, arranged by the University directly.
Additional information for Needs Assessors
A quick query appointment is a twenty minute , bookable appointment with a disability adviser.
There are a limited number of quick query appointments available each weekday.
These appointments are ideal for asking simple questions about setting up your disability support either face-to-face, by telephone or video call (via Microsoft Teams) with an adviser.
Please note that you can always email a query to studentlife@tees.ac.uk if you are happy to communicate by email instead.
A mental health initial assessment is a 30 minute appointment with an adviser who specialises in mental health and autism.
The appointment includes a holistic assessment of your needs to explore appropriate internal or external support.
The appointment will include talking about any difficulties you are experiencing related to your mental health or personal circumstances where you feel you need some additional support.
Possible outcomes of the assessment may be, for example:
To book a quick query or mental health initial assessment either call into the Student Life building reception, telephone 01642 342277 or email studentlife@tees.ac.uk
A specific learning difficulty (SpLD) affects the way that information is processed and learnt.
This can have an impact on literacy skills including understanding language in both its verbal and written form.
This does not have an impact on overall intelligence.
Examples of specific learning difficulties include dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia, and specific language impairments.
The only way to confirm a specific learning difficulty is to have a full diagnostic assessment carried out by a qualified educational psychologist or specialist teacher.
We contract psychologists from The Educational Guidance Service (EGS) to come in and carry out these assessments.
If you are unsure and need help to consider whether this is something you would like to arrange, please download and complete this Adult Dyslexia Checklist which is a simple indicator of whether or not you may be experiencing a dyslexic-type problem.
If you are sure you would like to request a diagnostic assessment from Teesside University you need to apply by completing our SpLD Assessment Application form (SAAF)
Please note that if you are a Teesside University applicant with an unconditional or conditional offer, you must provide us with some previous evidence to be eligible for an early assessment.
This could be a previous SpLD assessment or a letter from your school or college detailing any support you may have had in place such as extra time in your exams, any one to one support, or any other adjustments.
If you do not have previous evidence, you can still be assessed, however you will be placed on the waiting list and contacted once you have enrolled to arrange the assessment.
If you are not eligible for funding for an assessment (see the form for detailed eligibility criteria), you are able to choose to pay for an assessment yourself - either through the University or with an external provider.
The cost of an assessment is usually £250- £450.
If you have any questions about this, please email studentlife@tees.ac.uk
After your assessment you will receive your results in the form of a report.
If your report indicates that you do have specific learning difficulties, you will be invited to an appointment with an adviser to arrange additional support for your course.
If you are waiting for your diagnostic assessment result, or if you have had the assessment and the outcome is that you do not have a SpLD, there is still some support available to you, however this would not be through Disability Services.
You can access the support available to all students through the University's Learning Hub , and we have a useful Advice Guides: Tools and Resources to Support Academic Writing
During your time at university, you may require personal care due to your disability.
This might be both when on campus and within your accommodation.
You may also require adaptations to your accommodation.
Personal care includes support with tasks such as:
Personal care support is not arranged or provided by the University.
Funding and arranging personal care support is the responsibility of your local authority where you are classed as a â€˜ordinarily residentâ€™.
They remain responsible for assessing and paying for any social or personal care support whilst you are living away from home at university.
Whilst the University will make reasonable adjustments to access to study, we are unable to provide either funding or support for independent living or residential or personal care.
If you require any support with personal care, we would recommend liaising with your local authority as far in advance as possible from your course start date so you are able to secure funding and arrange the support.
The Disability Team can discuss information about local care providers if needed.
Please contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk if you require this information.
If you already have someone who provides this support such as a friend or family member, and intend for them to continue providing your support, we advise liaising with Disability Services in advance of your course start date, to discuss access arrangements.
International students are not normally eligible for financial assistance with care costs from the British government, and the University is unable to fund personal care support.
Therefore, it is essential that you have included these additional costs in your budget, and that you have sufficient funding in place for the duration of your course before you come to the UK.
If you apply for university and require any specific adjustments to your Teesside University accommodation, you should notify the accommodation team as early as possible ( accommodation@tees.ac.uk ).
You can also discuss this further with a Disability Adviser in a Student Support Plan appointment, we would recommend getting in touch as soon as possible to let us know your needs for accommodation.
If you require the use of Specialist Toilets and/or Changing Rooms to meet your personal care needs, you can find information on these in Guide 14 - Specialist Toilets and Changing Rooms .
Please note that we are unable to provide adaptations to accommodation where you are living at home or in private rented accommodation.
In these circumstances we would recommend speaking to your local authority and/or landlord to discuss further.
Our service is confidential which means that any information you provide us can only be seen by appropriate members of staff involved in helping you to access support.
We will treat all information you provide sensitively.
We may need to share information about you with others, within the University and sometimes outside.
We will only share information about you with your consent.
But, there are some exceptions where we may need to share information without your consent:
Under the General Data Protection Regulations we are obliged to tell you how we collect and use your personal data.
Please note that enquiries and appointments with our services are tracked electronically and the personal data of your enquiry is stored in protected files.
We keep this data so that we can keep track of your enquiry and our response for future reference, to enable us to support you in the most effective way.
This personal information will be retained for 7 years after which it will be destroyed securely.
For more information, please refer to the University's Student Privacy Notice
Please see our Disability Services privacy notice for more information.
If you wish to access our services, it is important that you read the information in this document.
If you would like to provide any service feedback or make a complaint about the service you have received, in the first instance please contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk .
If you would like to make a formal complaint, please refer to the information on our complaints page .
Advice guides Chat to an adviser

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/extenuating_circumstances.cfm:
The University recognises that there may be times during your course when something happens that negatively affects your performance in your assessment(s) or that means you are unable to complete your assessment(s).
These are called 'Extenuating Circumstances'.
Examples of extenuating circumstances include:
You will need to show that your circumstances have significantly affected your ability to complete your assessment.
You can find more detailed examples of what the University considers and does not consider to be an extenuating circumstance in the Extenuating Circumstances Regulations Taught Provision and Guidance for applying for Extenuating Circumstances .
The first thing you should do is talk to your personal tutor or another academic staff member about what is going on.
The sooner they know about the difficulties you are facing, the easier it will be for them to support you.
They can discuss the options available to you and help you identify which is the most appropriate to your situation.
With the help of your tutor, you decide which option is best for you.
If you are applying before your assessment date, an extension or deferral may be an appropriate choice.
However, if you are applying for an exam or after an assessment date, mitigating circumstances may be more suitable.
It is important to note that the process is longer for mitigating circumstances, and you will need to resubmit your assignment or resit the examination.
Below, you can find information on how to apply for an extension or a deferral, or for Mitigating Circumstances.
If you wish to consider interrupting your studies, please contact your school and they will be able to guide you through the process.
You should talk to your tutor, module or course leader to identify which option is most appropriate to your situation.
Before completing the application form, you should read the Extenuating Circumstances Regulations Taught Provision and Guidance for applying for Extenuating Circumstances .
You then need to complete the application form , providing as much detail as possible along with evidence to support your application.
The kind of evidence you need to provide will depend on the difficulties you are facing.
Examples include letters from medical practitioners, other medical documents, a death certificate or a police crime number/report.
A letter of support from your personal tutor is helpful but cannot be the only form of evidence that you submit.
Evidence should usually include your name and correspond to the time of your assessment(s).
The Guidance for applying for Extenuating Circumstances offers examples of acceptable evidence as well as examples of evidence that is not acceptable.
You can either hand it in to the reception desk in your school or college, or you can email it to your school using the relevant email address:
Submitting an application is not a guarantee that your request has been approved.
Check that you have chosen the right option for you and that you meet the relevant criteria, complete the form correctly and provide appropriate evidence.
You should use your student email address as your contact email, without it, your application may be delayed or refused.
You can get support with your application from the Students' Union by calling 01642 342247 or by emailing suss@tees-su.org.uk .
If you need guidance on the Extenuating Circumstances Regulations or wish to appeal a decision, you can contact the Student Casework Office (SCO) by emailing sco@tees.ac.uk .
The University also offers a range of student support services that you may find helpful depending on your situation.
Firstly, ensure that you have discussed all the other options available to you with your personal tutor or your module or course leader.
A short or long extension, deferred submission or a temporary interruption to your studies may be more appropriate.
Requests for mitigating circumstances are for one-off situations.
For example, if you could not attend your examination because you were unexpectedly ill, you had an accident that prevented you from attending your examination or you were facing an unexpected acute personal or emotional trauma at the time of your assessment.
You will need to complete all sections of the application form before you can submit it.
You must submit your application form within 14 calendar days of the submission or examination date.
If you submit your application late you will need to explain why.
The evidence you need to provide will depend on the difficulties you are facing.
Once your application has been checked to confirm that you have provided the necessary information and evidence, you will be informed of the date of the Mitigating Circumstances Board whereyour application will be considered.
Failure to submit a complete application with appropriate evidence will delay your request.
Boards usually take place each month and you will be kept updated on the progress of your application.
Once the Mitigating Circumstances Board has met and your application has been reviewed, you will normally be informed of the outcome within 15 calendar days.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/faith.cfm:
Teesside University is home to students from many different cultures and to people of all faiths and none.
We value the diversity of our students and recognise that being able to practise your faith is an important part of the student experience.
The Faith and Reflection service is for everyone.
It offers confidential, non-judgemental pastoral care and support to all staff and students within the University.
We are available for personal conversations at mutually agreed times.
You don't have to practise any particular faith to come to talk to us and it can be about any issue.
We also offer a range of weekly activities and events throughout the year.
If you wish to speak to anyone regarding faith, belief or related matters please enquire at the Student Life Building reception or email studentlife@tees.ac.uk
Faith and reflection Find out more about the Faith and reflection service and what we do.
Find out more about the Faith and reflection service and what we do.
The University has a dedicated space on campus to support prayer and quiet reflection.
Opening times are 8.00am to 9.00pm weekdays (can be open later by request) and 10.00am - 3.00pm on a weekend.
These times may be affected when it is a public holiday.
On our Middlesbrough campus there are dedicated Muslim prayer rooms are located in Education House on the ground floor.
These rooms provide a suitable environment for prayer.
There are rooms for men and women newly installed Wudhu facilities nearby.
Access is via TUSC for Teesside University students and staff only.
There is a dedicated multi-faith prayer space on the ground floor of Bios, which is open access for students and staff.
Prayer mats are provided in this space.
Similarly, the Wellbeing Room on the ground floor of the library may also be used for prayer during advertised periods.
Please check the events calendar for availability.
This is also signposted at the entrance to the Wellbeing Room.
At our Darlington campus, there is a multi-faith prayer room in Atmos on the second floor.
This is available throughout the day for prayer.
Directions to Education House from Student Life
If you want to know more about your faith or that of others here are some links to help you.
Follow the Student Life Facebook page
Follow the Student Life  Twitter page
Follow the Student Life  Instagram page
Imam Waleid Allam
My name is Waleid Allam and I have been working as an Imam in Middlesbrough since 1996 helping locals to deal with range of issues that faces them in the 21st century.
I am here to support the staff and students at Teesside University.
If you need any faith and or spiritual advice I am happy to meet on campus or in Abu Bakr Mosque.
James Cawdell
Hello, welcome to the university faith advisors team.
I'm James Cawdell and I am the Curate at St Barnabas on Linthorpe road, only a 10 minute walk from the university campus.
St Barnabas is a lively, welcoming Anglican church with an active student's ministry.
We have services at 9.30, 11.15 and 18.30 on Sundays and 9.30 on a Wednesday.
You'll be welcomed at any of these if you want to explore Christianity, grow as a Christian or just want a cup of coffee!
You can find us online at st-barnabas.net .
I'm also available for any students or staff members who would like to meet for a drink on campus or anywhere around Middlesbrough.
Minister Richard Cuthbert
I was ordained as a Spiritualists' National Union (SNU) Minister in March 2019, and have been a Spiritualist for over 20 years.
Spiritualism is an officially recognised religion, with its own Churches and educational centres.
It embodies the main ideas of many other religions; that there is life after death, immortality and the existence of a God.
The main difference between Spiritualism and other religions is that we accept that through the faculty of mediumship that it is possible to prove that individuals survive physical death.
We consider those who are Mediums to be able to communicate with those who have physically died, providing conclusive evidence of the continuous existence of the human soul.
In my capacity as a Minister I'm able to carry out official services such as weddings and funerals, and am registered with departments of the UK Government Home Office to carry out chaplaincy duties in prisons as well as hospitals when required.
As well as supporting those within my own Spiritualist community in my capacity as a Minister, and promoting Spiritualism, I am keen within my Faith Advisor role at the University to support individuals, whether Spiritualists or not, who may be curious about Spiritualism and aspects of it, and those who may wish to explore their own spirituality.
This will also perhaps give me the opportunity to help others understand that Spiritualism is as much about life before death is it is life after death!
I've worked at Teesside University since 2008, so know the student and staff community well, and look forward to supporting others in this new capacity within the University.
Lindsey Goodhew
Hello!
And welcome to the Faith and Reflection Service at Teesside University.
I am the Associate Vicar of St Barnabas Church Middlesbrough - a short walk from the University campus along the Linthorpe Road.
St Barnabas is a lively and welcoming Anglican Church in the Church of England.
We have many students at St Barnabas across our three Sunday Services and you will be warmly welcomed whether you are just exploring faith and asking questions, or have been a Christian for many years.
You can find out more about us at st-barnabas.net .
I am available to chat to both students and staff and would be pleased to meet up over coffee on campus or elsewhere.
Naomi Kelly
I am the Officer at Middlesbrough Citadel Salvation Army (next door to the Dickens) my days are very varied.
I run a drop in service for those in need in the area, support the other activities we have at our church including a cafÃ© and charity shop and enjoy leading Sunday worship at 10.30am every week.
On Campus, I can often be found with my therapy dog, Brengle the gorgeous Golden Retriever, hanging about and chatting with students and staff.
I'm a talkative and relaxed person who is always up for a cuppa and a chat.
Although...a cup of juice as I don't actually drink tea or coffee!
I can often be spotted in the Uni gym and love playing netball.
Rabbi Aaron Lipsey
As well as being our Jewish Faith Adviser, Rabbi Aaron Lipsey is the Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregation of Newcastle and Jewish Chaplain for Durham, Newcastle and Northumbria Universities.
He is married to Miriam and they have five children.
In 2013, in a moment of madness Aaron enrolled on a Masters degree in Religions and Theology at the University of Manchester and has spent the last four years explaining  to all who will listen how the universities in the North East are great places to study despite not choosing to do so himself.
He graduated with a distinction in February 2016.
Aaron says that eighteen years of marriage (and kids; never forget the kids) have taught him that some end of life issues start much earlier than you expect and can continue for much longer than any sane man would possibly wish for.
His claim to fame is having a name that sounds like a designer brand and for being the only plane-spotting Rabbi in the North East.
(That really is much more cool and exciting than you might otherwise think...)
Gavin Rodgers
I am part of the leadership team at Jubilee Church Teesside a large lively all ages Church based in central Middlesbrough which is part of Christ Central Churches and the Evangelical Alliance.
I am local to the North East and have been part of Jubilee Church Teesside for 8 years since moving across from Darlington where I was born.
I became a Christian at the age of 16 after being invited to a church youth group by one of my friends, this radically changed my view on Christianity.
I am extremely passionate about students, young people and Teesside.
I work as part time for Jubilee Church where I oversee youth and student work and I also work at a local Sixth Form College giving careers advice and guidance.
As a careers advisor I regularly support young people and assist them in making some of the bigger life decisions relating to their future, this is something which I find extremely exciting.
In my spare time, I love spending time with my wife and my two young children as well as being huge fan of Liverpool FC.
REdiscovering Middlesbrough was a two year project which aimed to create and maintain an online map of the places of worship found within Middlesbrough.
Together with the local community and NASACRE students at Acklam Grange School have created this online interactive Google map with resources.
This is an extremely useful and informative tool.
If you are looking for information about our local faith communities this will be a good start.
If you notice any errors please email RediscoveringMiddlesbrough@acklamgrange.org.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/health.cfm:
Student Wellbeing is here to help you to stay healthy and well while at university.
We support healthy lifestyles through a range of services and activities on and off campus.
We work very closely with partners within and outside of the University to ensure your health and wellbeing needs are met while you are here, and to empower you to take control of your own health and wellbeing to be the best that you can be.
Health and wellbeing services offer both in-person and online support.
For general enquires about our services, please contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk .
We have a variety of events and activities throughout the year linked to health and wellbeing.
View the list of events and activities
24/7 Mental wellbeing support services
The University has a No Smoking Policy which supports the aim of a smoke-free campus, The policy aims to provide a healthy working environment and protect the health of employees, students and visitors to the University by raising awareness of the dangers associated with exposure to tobacco smoke.
The No Smoking Policy states:
Smoking is prohibited in the following locations:
The preparation of smoking material in public areas within buildings is also prohibited.
Vaping is prohibited in the following locations:
There are services available if you wish to stop smoking, either through your GP, local pharmacy, community drop-in or helpline.
How to find a local GP practice
Drinking alcohol is part of student culture, but we just want to make sure you are safe when you are out drinking.
If you are going to be drinking, leave the car at home.
Try and have two alcohol free days each week.
Stay well hydrated, a good way is to alternate an alcoholic drink with a soft drink.
Anyone with concerns regarding drug and/or alcohol use or feeling under pressure from friends to try drugs or alcohol can seek advice from Change Grow Live (CGL) ,  based in the Live Well Centre, Dundas House, Middlesbrough.
If you are currently in recovery, Teesside University is a recovery friendly campus.
There are weekly drop in meetings on campus.
Contact Recovery Connections for more information, info@recoveryconnections.org.uk or 07949 034820.
Everyone deals with pressure differently, but we're here to help.
Check out our list of simple things you can do to help stay healthy and well during your time at university - and beyond.
More about being exam fit
The NHS is the UK's state health service which provides treatment for UK residents through a wide range of health care services.
Some services are free and some have to be paid for.
The lifestyle service comes in two pathways for the students to pick from:
Exercise referral - a 12-week support program where the student will engage in physical activity of their choosing (usually walking, running or strength training in the university gym).
They will have one session per week with a highly qualified trainer.
They will be educated in exercise in order for them to become the masters of their own autonomy and have the confidence and skill set they need to achieve whatever goals they set themselves in the future.
Lifestyle clinic - is a six-week intervention where the student and an advisor discuss their nutrition and/or other aspects of their lifestyle.
This is done through them completing tasks such as food and/or activity journals then reflect on them to identify patterns in behaviours.
They will explore healthy alternatives and take realistic approaches to making the changes they desire.
For more information contact Student Life.
Measles is potentially a very serious illness which can on rare occasions be fatal.
It is highly infectious and is spread through direct contact with an infected person or through the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes.
The viral illness begins with a fever, cough, runny nose and red, watery eyes.
This is followed with a rash that starts on the face and upper neck a few days later, and then spreads down the upper body, extending to the arms, hands, legs and feet.
There is no treatment for measles but it can be prevented by the safe and highly effective MMR vaccine and two doses are required to ensure the best protection.
The majority of cases (confirmed and suspected) in the North East are in unvaccinated school children and young adults.
To prevent spreading the illness, the Health Protection Agency is advising people with symptoms of measles to:
The Health Protection Agency says it is incredibly important to remember that measles isn't a harmless childhood disease and why we're urging people to check they are fully immunised and had both doses of the MMR vaccine.
If anyone has missed out on MMR in the past it's always possible to catch-up as the vaccine can be given at any age.
Just contact your local GP.
Anyone who is concerned should contact their GP or NHS 111 in the first instance.
Meningitis is inflammation of the meninges - the lining surrounding the brain.
Anyone can get meningitis but students are one of the groups most at risk because of the closeness of student accommodation.
More about meningitis
If you or someone you know is ill and you suspect it's meningitis or septicaemia, get medical help immediately by contacting your GP or NHS 111.
In an emergency dial 999 or go to your nearest accident and emergency department.
Mumps is an acute viral illness that causes fever, headache and swollen painful glands.
It's spread by coughs and sneezes.
More rarely it can cause complications such as inflammation of the ovaries, testicles and pancreas.
If you have any symptoms which may include: swollen glands, headaches, joint pain, high temperature you should contact your GP or call NHS 111 and avoid contact with others.
Mumps is most recognisable by the painful swellings in the side of the face under the ears (the parotid glands), giving a person with mumps a distinctive 'hamster face' appearance.
It is important to contact your GP if you suspect mumps so a diagnosis can be made.
While mumps is not usually serious, the condition has similar symptoms to more serious types of infection such as glandular fever and tonsillitis.
Your GP can usually make a diagnosis after seeing and feeling the swelling, looking at the position of the tonsils in the mouth and checking the person's temperature to see if it's higher than normal.
Let your GP know in advance if you are coming to the surgery so they can take any necessary precautions to prevent the spread of infection.
If your GP suspects mumps, they will notify your local health protection team (HPT).
Mumps is spread in the same way as colds and flu: through infected droplets of saliva that can be inhaled or picked up from surfaces and transferred into the mouth or nose.
A person is most contagious a few days before the symptoms develop and for a few days afterwards.
During this time, it's important to prevent the infection spreading to others, particularly teenagers and young adults who have not been vaccinated.
If you have mumps you can help prevent it spreading by:
If you have any concerns regarding your immunity, please contact your GP to check your MMR vaccination status.
If you are between 18 and 25 ypou may have only had one dose of the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccine.
You need two doses to be properly immunised.
Make an appointment with a GP for another vaccination if necessary.
As soon as possible, after you receive a diagnosis of mumps, please email studentwellbeing@tees.ac.uk to let us know the date of your diagnosis.
A member of the student wellbeing team will then get in touch.
We can help with liaison with your school as well.
Stay away from University for the recommended amount of time, following onset of symptoms, or as directed by your GP.
Period poverty is defined as not being able to access sanitary products, usually due to the cost.
People who experience period poverty are unable to purchase the menstrual products they need, and this can have a detrimental impact leading them to feel anxious and more likely to avoid going to school, university or work.
More about Period dignity
The University's Post-Covid Support Service (PCSS), is available to support students who may be experiencing the longer term effects of having had Covid19, which has been identified by the NHS as Post- Covid (also known as Long Covid).
The service offers an information, advice and signposting service via MS Teams and is available free to all students.
More about the Post Covid support service
You can access free and confidential sexual health services across Teesside, including information and advice on all types of contraception and STI testing & treatment.
Services are confidential, non-judgmental and for people of all ages, genders and orientations.
Sexual health clinics can be found in Middlesbrough, Redcar, Hartlepool and Stockton-on-Tees.
In Middlesbrough, there is a clinic around 10-15 minutes' walk from the main university campus, located at:
3rd Floor, Live Well Centre Dundas Arcade Shopping Centre Middlesbrough TS1 1HR
In addition to clinic services, students can access sexual health care in many other venues.
Local pharmacies offer emergency hormonal contraception (EHC, or 'the morning after pill'), free condoms and chlamydia screening kits - they are often open for longer hours and at weekends.
Around Teesside University's campus, you can find the following pharmacies in the Linthorpe Road / Cleveland Centre area:
Students can also access a wide array of services online at www.thesexualhealthhub.co.uk
You can get free online / postal access to:
The website has lots of useful information regarding all forms of contraception, symptoms of sexually transmitted infections, how to access PrEP, and links to other local agencies that can offer support.
The website also has information on Monkeypox , which you may have heard about in recent news bulletins; this includes what symptoms to look out for, how to get treatment and vaccinations.
Sexual Health care is also provided on-campus at Teesside University by Terrence Higgins Trust who deliver drop-in sessions to provide condoms/lubricants, 'finger prick' testing for HIV, as well as advice and guidance and signposting to local support agencies.
Look out for their details on the university blackboard, library news and social media, Facebook and Twitter.
Drop-in sessions (no appointment needed) will run in the Student Life Building throughout Academic year in SLB2.
30b (wellbeing room), 2nd floor of the Student Life Building.
You can be tested for HIV, Syphilis and Hepatitis C these are rapid tests which means you get your results before you leave.
We're here for everyone, remember most STIs are easily treated, and you can get the information and support you need.
Please contact Anthony - Health Promotion Specialist by email Anthony.Young@tht.org.uk if you have any questions.
Throughout the academic year we will be offering a number of activities to support your mental, physical and spiritual wellbeing.
These will include short sessions of yoga, Pilates, Mindfulness, meditation and breathwork to fit in and around your studies.
This is an excellent way to spend some time on yourself to re-set, re-charge or just take a break from your studies.
These sessions will take place on the Darlington and Middlesbrough campuses.
Currently we offer a session 1.10pm - 1.45pm on a Thursday at Darlington campus in the NHC building.
Sessions at Middlesbrough campus will take place in the Wellbeing room on the ground floor of the library.
To find out more, follow Student Life on Facebook , Instagram and X .
For general health and well-being related queries and how to access advice on alcohol use, smoking cessation, contraception - including emergency contraception, sexual health issues and dental treatment.
T: 01642 342277 E: studentlife@tees.ac.uk In person: Student Life

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/helpful_tips.cfm:
There’s lots to think about when you’re a student besides your studies, including accommodation, money matters and finding work, to name a few.
Unfortunately, sometimes things aren’t always what they seem – and students can fall victim to certain frauds and scams.
We're here to offer a helping hand so you can spot legitimate offers and services.
Remember, if something sounds too good to be true, often it is.
Working in partnership with Teesside University Students’ Union, we’re compiling a range of advice and tips to help you throughout your university journey.
Check out our videos below.
There will be more to come soon to help you stay safe online and on campus.
Here are some top tips on the best approach to finding the right accommodation for you and, where applicable, other family members.
We’ve also highlighted some of the pitfalls you might encounter when trying to secure a place to live.
Lots of our students look for part time work while studying - but unfortunately, sometimes fraudsters can take advantage of this.
Here are some useful tips and advice to help you make sure you stay safe and don’t fall victim to fraud.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/inclusive.cfm:
We are committed to providing a safe, welcoming and inclusive campus and to supporting all members of our University community to thrive whatever their age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, marital status, nationality or any other characteristic.
We have a zero tolerance approach to any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying.
We offer a range of services to empower our community including disability, mental health and counselling services and support for care leavers and trans students.
All of this is underpinned by our Yes to Respect campaign which continually promotes our commitments to inclusivity, provides a useful source of information and an online reporting tool if something isn't right.
LGBTQ+ At Teesside University we are committed to equality and value the rich diversity in our University community.
We are Tu Proud What is sexuality?
Sexuality is the term used to describe how a person expresses their sexual identity.
It's about values and emotions and how you feel about yourself as well as about sexual behaviour.
It's who you are attracted to and how you choose to express that sexuality.
Sexuality is a complex area of human experience.
Sexual identity is not necessarily fixed for life and is dependent on a combination of factors involving our own individual natures.
Like many other personality traits, it seems to be formed by the time we reach our teenage years, although it may not be until much later that we come to terms with and accept it.
Coming out ...
to yourself When you first realise you may be gay it can be a challenging period.
You may be having feelings for members of the same sex but at the same time may not want to be seen as different or may be worried some people might not accept you.
Your emotions can be in turmoil during this time as your thoughts not only are dealing with how you feel but they may also be thinking about how other people will feel.
The important thing to remember is that it is ok.
Please remember that the majority of people are understanding and are supportive If you want someone to talk to during this time, we have a range of welfare advisers who can help in the first instance.
We also have a dedicated and specialist counselling team who can also provide support to you.
...
to others It is important, wherever possible, to choose who to come out to and how to do this and not to feel under pressure to do anything you do not feel comfortable with.
One way might be to find sympathetic people to come out to first.
People who perhaps know you best.
Or you may feel more comfortable talking to one of our welfare advisers.
They can offer support, signpost some good local community support and useful websites.
For more in depth support we also have a counselling team which you can be referred to for extra support.
exuality is a complex area of human experience.
How to contact us for support Email: studentlife@tees.ac.uk T: 01642 342277 In person: Student Life based in the Campus Heart Student Life opening hours Monday - Friday: 8.00am - 6.00pm Sexual health It is common for people at different stages in their lives to be unsure of their sexual identity.
Some experiment with different partners in order to come to a decision.
Whatever your sexual identity, it is better to wait to have sex until you are sure that you are with the person you really want to have sex with so that you retain respect for both yourself and the other person.
It is important that anyone who is sexually active takes care of their health.
The HIV virus now affects all groups of people and not just the gay community as used to be the case; however, gay men must make sure they have a good knowledge of safer sex practices.
Gay men should also ensure they are vaccinated against hepatitis B.
Remember that you do not need to go to your GP for advice if you are concerned about them knowing about your sexuality.
The NHS Choices website and helpline can offer advice and support.
Useful LGBTQ+ networks and support LGBT+ Switchboard a voluntary organisation which aims to provide a 24 hour information, support and referral service for lesbians and gay men from all backgrounds throughout the UK - 0207 837 7324 Stonewall Stonewall stands for lesbian, gay, bi, trans, queer, questioning and ace (LGBTQ+) people everywhere.
They imagine a world where all LGBTQ+ people are free to be themselves and can live their lives to the full.
LGBT Foundation A national charity delivering advice, support and information services to lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans (LGBT) communities.
FFLAG Information for families and friends of lesbians and gays Queer Youth Network The UK's national LGBTQ+ youth organisation run by and for all sexualities Hate crimes Middlesbrough's reducing hate crime group aim to provide support to victims of hate incidents and crimes Trans Unite Support for the transgender & non-binary communities.
Sexual health and wellbeing NHS Choices Information from the NHS about sexuality and gay health issues MESMAC MESMAC North East works with gay and bisexual men and other men who have sex with men to increase the range of choices open to them Hart Gables Providing support, advice and guidance to the LGBTQ+ community in the Tees Valley area News and what's on The University runs regular events to support our LGBTQ+ community and their allies.
These include: The annual event Intersectional Pride Support sessions such as Trans+ Talk Creative writing workshops and a competition (with prizes to be won) during history month Educational talks with guest speakers throughout the year And much more...
To find out more about past or upcoming events you can visit the TU Proud website.
If there's something you would like the University to run, 
				please contact Vik Brown victoria.brown@tees.ac.uk and Emily Downes E.Downes@tees.ac.uk or email rainbowofficehours@tees.ac.uk Additional University support Health and wellbeing Information about your health and wellbeing as a student.
Counselling The University has a counselling service for any issues you may wish to explore.
Faith and Refection Service There may be issues the University can help you talk through.
Careers If you need any information and advice specifically around careers you can find out more on our careers pages.
Teesside University Students' Union You can contact the Students' Union for advice and information on sexuality.
A student representative from the Students' Union is part of the University's sexuality focus group so if you have ideas of what you would like to see the University do then speak to the Students' Union and let them know your ideas.
Your opinion counts We hope you have found this information useful.
If you have any comments or suggestions about the services we provide for LGBTQ+ students please email us .
Join us to shape your University We have a focus group for LGBTQ+ students and staff at Teesside University.
It's your chance to help shape your University.
You will be involved in decision making and sharing of ideas on what would make the Teesside University LGBTQ+ community better.
We would love you to join us.
For further information just email Vik Brown victoria.brown@tees.ac.uk or Emily Downes E.Downes@tees.ac.uk Can't find what you're looking for?
At Teesside University we are committed to equality and value the rich diversity in our University community.
We are Tu Proud
When you first realise you may be gay it can be a challenging period.
Please remember that the majority of people are understanding and are supportive
If you want someone to talk to during this time, we have a range of welfare advisers who can help in the first instance.
It is important, wherever possible, to choose who to come out to and how to do this and not to feel under pressure to do anything you do not feel comfortable with.
Email: studentlife@tees.ac.uk T: 01642 342277 In person: Student Life based in the Campus Heart Student Life opening hours Monday - Friday: 8.00am - 6.00pm
It is common for people at different stages in their lives to be unsure of their sexual identity.
a voluntary organisation which aims to provide a 24 hour information, support and referral service for lesbians and gay men from all backgrounds throughout the UK - 0207 837 7324
Stonewall stands for lesbian, gay, bi, trans, queer, questioning and ace (LGBTQ+) people everywhere.
A national charity delivering advice, support and information services to lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans (LGBT) communities.
Information for families and friends of lesbians and gays
The UK's national LGBTQ+ youth organisation run by and for all sexualities
Middlesbrough's reducing hate crime group aim to provide support to victims of hate incidents and crimes
Support for the transgender & non-binary communities.
Information from the NHS about sexuality and gay health issues
MESMAC North East works with gay and bisexual men and other men who have sex with men to increase the range of choices open to them
Providing support, advice and guidance to the LGBTQ+ community in the Tees Valley area
The University runs regular events to support our LGBTQ+ community and their allies.
These include:
If there's something you would like the University to run, 
				please contact Vik Brown victoria.brown@tees.ac.uk and Emily Downes E.Downes@tees.ac.uk or email rainbowofficehours@tees.ac.uk
Information about your health and wellbeing as a student.
The University has a counselling service for any issues you may wish to explore.
There may be issues the University can help you talk through.
If you need any information and advice specifically around careers you can find out more on our careers pages.
You can contact the Students' Union for advice and information on sexuality.
We hope you have found this information useful.
We have a focus group for LGBTQ+ students and staff at Teesside University.
For further information just email Vik Brown victoria.brown@tees.ac.uk or Emily Downes E.Downes@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/international.cfm:
We offer a free, impartial and confidential immigration and welfare based advice service designed to encourage and empower international students to make informed choices.
Our mission is to provide high quality, free, impartial and confidential immigration information and advice to applicants, students, dependants and recent graduates.
There are four International Advisers  who are qualified and authorised to provide immigration advice to students.
All appointments are conducted in a confidential and private space, where you can discuss in detail the nature of your enquiry and receive the necessary advice and support.
Information and advice provided is based upon known information held on your student record and upon information that you provide about your situation.
We expect that you will be open and honest about your circumstances, so that we can ensure you receive the correct advice.
If the level of immigration advice required is beyond the competence of the International Student Adviser, they will refer you to an appropriately qualified external professional.
You can contact the International Advice Service for initial advice by email: international@tees.ac.uk
An International Student Adviser will respond to your enquiry and will arrange an appointment with you if required.
Alternatively, you can submit an enquiry through the Student Life Enquiry Team:
T: 01642 342277 In person: Student Life
Our International Student Advisers can offer you advice before you join us and at any point during your studies.
Yolanda Lopez International Advice Manager
Laura Head International Adviser
Theresa Cannon International Adviser
E: international@tees.ac.uk T: 01642 342730
To ensure compliance with OISC, electronic records of all immigration advice provided are kept.
It is advisable you book an in-person advice appointment with a trained adviser.
All appointments are be conducted in a confidential and private office space, where you can discuss in detail the nature of your enquiry and receive the necessary advice and support.
We will respect your confidence at all times except in the following instances:
We may decide that it is in your best interest to contact an external organisation such as the Home Office or UKCISA for further opinions about your case.
Whenever possible, we will let you know in advance of doing this.
However, this may not always be practically possible when working in your best interest.
We have designed a number of guides to enable current international students to undertake core processes independently.
Please note, the content of these guides is checked for accuracy on a regular basis, but the information supplied should be used as a guide only.
The International Advice Service can provide advice to current international students and to prospective in-country international students about the following matters:
Please note that the International Student Advisers are not able to provide advice on the following matters*:
*This is not an exhaustive list and in all cases where we are unable to assist you, we would refer you to a suitably qualified practitioner.
Immigration advice services provided by the advisers within Student and Library Services are offered free of charge .
Other costs, such as visa application fees, IHS fees, biometric enrolment and appointment fees are the responsibility of the student.
Any relevant and associated costs will be clearly explained during an appointment.
The full Statement of Service - International Advice can be found here:
Stay safe online and be aware of fraud and scams
More information for international students
Travelling to Teesside

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/it.cfm:
Digital Futures is our new integrated IT support and advice service, offering expert help and guidance to empower you to get the most from digital technologies.
We're here to help you learn how to use digital technologies, solve problems and give you practical advice on the latest products and software.
We offer self-service resources and assisted service support in person, by telephone, email, chat, social media and through our dedicated portal.
Services offered include:
Based in the Student Life building, our Digital Futures zone features:
More about Digital Futures

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/learning_support.cfm:
Our Learning Hub is a physical and virtual space where you can discuss strategies and resources to help you fulfil your potential.
Help is available to develop academic skills such as writing, referencing and finding resources for assignments.
We offer support for different approaches to learning including drop-in sessions, workshops and online support.
Staff from the Learning Hub also support peer learning within the University, including managing peer-assisted study sessions.
More about the Learning Hub

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/library.cfm:
Our Library is open 24/7 and offers flexible learning spaces to meet your needs from silent to group study.
Our Library offers access to a wealth of print and online resources, with support available from our professional team both on campus and remotely.
You can access millions of learning resources including ebooks and journal articles through our Discovery search engine.
More about the Library

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/complaint.cfm:
Although we are committed to delivering an excellent student experience, there may be occasions where you want to complain about the service you have received.
If you want to submit a complaint you should complete the University's Stage 1 Student Complaint Form and send it to sco@tees.ac.uk.
Advisers in the Students' Union are able to help you with this process - you may wish to contact them to support you by  emailing suss@tees-su.org.uk .
You may also find out more on the Students' Union Student Support web pages .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/mental_health.cfm:
Our mental health affects how we think and feel and how we cope with everyday life.
Your University experience should be exciting and enjoyable but it's not unusual for students to encounter difficulties with their mental health and various forms of stress during their studies.
Stress can range from personal to educational, and there maybe times where students need a bit of extra support to help manage this.
Many of our students have diagnosed mental health conditions and are still able to study very successfully.
Some students may require some additional support to help manage the impact of their condition and we have a specialist team available to help you, if you need it.
All Teesside University students have access to a range of resources to help support and maintain good mental health, whether you have a diagnosis or not.
You can discuss the type of support you might benefit from with one of our specialist advisers.
If you have a long-term mental health condition, this might include support from Disability Services in the form of an individual Student Support Plan which identifies reasonable adjustments to help support you in your studies.
We have a team of specialist advisers and practitioners dedicated to supporting students with autistic spectrum conditions and/or mental health conditions.
You'll find the team in the Student Life building.
We can offer a free and confidential service which includes:
A Mental Health initial assessment is a 20-minute appointment with a mental health adviser which includes a holistic assessment of your needs and current concerns to explore appropriate support.
Possible outcomes of the assessment may be:
After your Mental Health initial assessment, you may be offered further appointments with a mental health adviser or mental health practitioner.
A mental health appointment usually lasts up to one hour and can include working with you in areas of:
If you have autism and would like to arrange an appointment with a mental health and autism adviser to talk about your transition into university, transition after graduation or into the workplace, or any concerns you might have which are affecting your university experience you can request this by emailing studentlife@tees.ac.uk , and we will arrange an appointment which will be tailored to your individual needs.
Appointments may include:
To access an appointment to explore mental health support please complete our online form .
You will then be contacted via email with further information.
If you feel unable to keep yourself safe and are experiencing a mental health crisis such as feeling close to acting on suicidal thoughts, please contact emergency services (999) or your local crisis team .
The crisis team are available to speak to you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you require urgent assistance.
You can call the Middlesbrough crisis team on: 111, and select the Mental Health option 2 .
Check your local crisis team number
The crisis team will talk to you about your current needs and explore ways in which you can be supported.
Middlesbrough's local crisis team is also based in Roseberry Park Hospital.
We can also offer support and advice during office hours - please contact the Student Life Enquiry Team on 01642 342277 or come to the Student Life building reception .
If you are on campus outside of office hours, you can speak to our Security team who you will find on the ground floor of the Library, or by calling 01642 342086 .
If you would like some self-help information or out of hours support, please refer to Urgent help and support for mental health
Coming to university is an exciting time however we understand that it can also come with some challenges.
Please refer to our Transitioning into university life guide where you will find lots of hints and tips to help you get a head start.
If you have a mental health condition or autism spectrum condition and feel you may need some additional support with the transition into university life, we would recommend notifying us of a disability before starting your course to explore support and reasonable adjustments with an adviser.
You can find more information about how to do this by visiting Disability Services
You can also request an appointment with one of our mental health and autism advisers to specifically discuss your transition (see Appointments to discuss support for autism)
Please click the following link to find self-help advice and guidance for managing low mood and anxiety: HELP when feeling low or anxious .
We continue to live in difficult and challenging times that may impact on your mental health and wellbeing.
We have created a short guide to offer you some ideas to help maintain positive wellbeing.
You can find some short videos below created by the North East and North Cumbria Suicide Prevention network which provide advice and guidance on how to look after yourself, others and getting help early.
Speak to a friend, family member or colleague you trust and share your concerns chat about something different help take (their) mind off things.
If find it easier speak someone donâ€™t know what is bothering you, call the Durham Tees Valley listening service on 0800 046 1313 Samaritans 116 123.
Listening to the news can be useful forkeeping us informed on what is happening in our local area.
However, be sure that you are getting news from a reputable source and be cautious of coverage on social media.
While social media is a good way to connectwith others, it is also a source of misinformation and does not always give anaccurate representation of what is really going on.
It is a good idea to limit your timeonline, particularly if you find that it is heightening your anxiety.
Make time for an activity you enjoy, to help take your mind off things.
This could bereading, exercise, watching your favourite comfort show, baking, making yourself a meal - whatever helps lift your spirits and keep you focussed.
While it is important to consider the above points, do take note of any local guidance issued by Cleveland Police, Middlesbrough Council, and the university in order to help maintain your safety.
Self-care can be anything you do to look after your mental and physical wellbeing, it is different for everyone, make time in your day to practice this!
It is understandable that you may be feeling stressed, scared, or anxious; try self-soothing using grounding or mindfulness techniques, there are many online guides.
If you need some additional support or someone to speak to following the recent unrest across the UK, there are many services available to you.
To access support from the Mental Health and wellbeing teams based at the university you can email studentlife@tees.ac.uk or visit the front desk in the Student Life Building.
The Student Assistance Programme is available to all students to supportwith mental health, trained counsellors are available 24/7 to speak about a range of issues.
If you require urgent support for your mental health, you can contact 111 and choose option 2 for mental health, or complete the online form
For more information you can visit the website: Suicide Prevention Network (stopsuicidenenc.org)
Weekly 'Students Supporting Students' sessions are hosted in the Students Union Activities Lounge (1st floor) every Tuesday, 4.30pm - 5.30pm.
Please note that there may be times throughout the year (Summer period etc) when the group may not be running and so we advise you to check this on our Students Union Facebook page.
You do not need to book onto the sessions and can just turn up on the day.
The group provides a space for students to engage in general conversation, make friends with other students and talk to each other about mental health and wellbeing.
Often, students will reflect on their week so far and any challenges they have faced alongside how they overcome this and any positive experiences.
We offer a space that is relaxed, enjoyable and informal.
Students can drop in anytime throughout the session to talk about what's on their mind, or to provide support to others.
Free hot drinks are available and it is an opportunity to meet new people and talk about interests and share new ideas!
As a University we are committed to supporting all our staff and students, including those who have a military background.
We have signed the armed forces covenant and are dedicated to provide fairness and support to the members of our University community who are veterans and ex-military.
In 2020, we received recognition for our commitment to the military charter
Our Student Wellbeing and Welfare teams can provide counselling and mental health support in addition to welfare and finance advice.
We have links with Op Courage, the NHS mental health and wellbeing support for veterans and ex-military and we recommend the following online support organisations:
Combat stress is the UK's leading charity for veterans' mental health.
They provide a range of mental health support services to veterans, including online self-help resources and a 24-hour Helpline (0800 138 1619) which is available to all veterans and their families for confidential mental health advice and support.
SSAFA are the longest running national tri-service military charity.
They describe their mission as being "to relieve need, suffering and distress amongst the Armed Forces, veterans and their families in order to support their independence and dignity".
They host a "live chat" service on their website and their usual reply time to this is within 5 minutes.
SSAFA also have a local Cleveland Branch that covers the Stockton, Redcar and Middlesbrough areas.
They provide community-based peer support, disability support and mental wellbeing support for ex-military personnel.
They are open Monday to Friday 10am - 12pm and can be contacted by telephoning 01642 217440 or emailing Cleveland.branch@ssafa.org.uk You can also connect with them and their local online community via Facebook
If you would like to provide any service feedback or make a complaint about the service you have received, in the first instance please contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk
If you would like to make a formal complaint, please refer to the information provided on the Student Casework Office (SCO) complaints page
Our service is confidential which means that any information you provide us can only be seen by appropriate members of staff involved in supporting you.
Please see our service privacy notice below for more information
Below you will also find our mental health service terms of access document.
If you wish to access our services it is important that you read and agree to the information in both of the documents.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/money.cfm:
Our finance advisers are available throughout the year to give you advice and information on money matters.
We can offer general advice and guidance including information on tuition fees, student loans, delayed funding loans, welfare benefits and much more.
If you are experiencing a delay in your Student Finance funding then you can apply for support as a Delayed Funding Loan.
To apply for a Delayed Funding Loan you will need to register/log in to Blackbullion.
Once you have logged in to the site you will find the application form and guidance notes in the Funds section.
You will be notified of the outcome of your application via your Blackbullion account .
Please note: the loan is a standard amount to cover basic living costs only for a maximum of six weeks (with additional amounts for dependants).
If you have other financial issues beyond temporary basic living costs and/or issues which are likely to continue for longer than six weeks you will need to make an appointment with an Adviser to discuss your circumstances further.
The Student Support Fund (SSF) is discretionary funding to help relieve financial hardship that might affect a student’s participation in Higher Education.
The fund is to help with unexpected costs and cannot be expected to fully resolve a student’s situation.
We are unable to provide large sums for those who have not made realistic provision for their studies.
Help may be given for unexpected costs (through an unforeseen change in circumstances) or serious financial problems for other reasons.
It is worth considering that your student finance is to help with living costs whilst at university.
If you choose to use this for something other than this, the fund cannot be expected to make up for this.
There are some things that the fund isn’t designed to help with as you are expected to have made realistic provision for your study before choosing University such as foreseeable and preventable circumstances.
This includes but is not limited to:
Full time 'home' students who are studying an undergraduate or post graduate degree (including PhD's) can apply to the Fund.
For example, those students who satisfy the residency criteria to receive Student Maintenance Loan Support from the UK Government's Student Finance system.
All available student funding must have been taken out and any eligible student overdraft used.
To be eligible, you must be living without a partner or have a partner that earns less than £25,000 per annum.
There must also be no outstanding debt to the University.
International students need to show they have enough money to support themselves for both their tuition fees and living costs whilst studying in the UK.
Your partner or child must also each have a certain amount of money available to them (if living with you in the UK).
However, if something unexpected occurs that affects your income you can apply to the fund.
Evidence will need to be provided and we cannot help with tuition fee costs.
You must be up to date with your fee payments to qualify for the fund.
You can apply once per academic year.
Any subsequent applications during the same academic year will only be accepted in exceptional circumstances at the discretion of the Head of Welfare & Advice, Student & Library Services.
Any award that a successful applicant receives will be paid in the form of a grant, NOT a loan, which means that it does not have to be paid back to the University.
You will need to register for an account at Blackbullion where you will find the application and guidance notes in the funding section.
Should you experience any problems registering, please contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk .
A student must be able to substantiate their evidence at the time of submission.
This evidence must be in English.
As you are uploading the documents electronically, this will be kept securely and only be seen by persons relevant to the case.
Things that apply to everyone:
If applicable:
A student must be able to support their application with evidence at the time of submission.
Any evidence related to your specific request, for example, receipts, letters, invoices or quotes.
These must be provided on letter headed paper.
Once we have received your application and supporting evidence, you will receive confirmation of receipt via email.
A member of the team will then assess it to check eligibility and ensure that all evidence is received.
At this point, we may request more evidence via email.
If this evidence is not received within 7 days, your application will be automatically deemed unsuccessful and will not proceed to a panel for consideration.
Any delay in receiving this evidence will delay your application going to panel.
The application will then go to a panel of 4 staff members; this will include a university staff member outside of Student & Library Services and a member of Students’ Union staff to provide impartiality and the panel will come to a joint decision.
The panel look at the application form provided so it is important that you add as much detail as possible.
It is also essential that you are clear in stating exactly what you are requesting and why.
The panel also look at the evidence provided to get a picture of overall spending patterns and income.
On receipt of the final piece of evidence, you will have an outcome via Blackbullion within 7 days.
Please note that these days exclude the University’s Christmas closure period and statutory bank holidays.
If for any reason there is a delay, you will be notified via your student email account.
Providing your bank details are on e-Vision and are up to date, you will receive payment within 3 working days of receiving a decision and this will be paid directly into your bank account.
We would recommend adding them in e-Vision before applying.
If your details are not on e-Vision this will delay payment.
In the first instance you should submit this in writing detailing the reason you don’t agree with the decision and any supporting/additional evidence to ssfappeals@tees.ac.uk within 7 days of receiving the decision.
Your application will be reviewed by a different panel and you will be informed of the decision in due course.
You may wish to speak to a Finance Adviser within the Student Life building before submitting your appeal and you can arrange this by emailing studentlife@tees.ac.uk and requesting an appointment or by calling 01642 342277.
Should you still remain dissatisfied, you may submit a Stage 1 Complaint to the Student Casework Office (SCO).
A Stage 1 Complaint Pack is available from the University’s website or by emailing sco@tees.ac.uk .
Any queries with the complaints process, please contact SCO at the above email address.
If you need help and advice regarding submitting a complaint you can speak to an Academic Adviser in the Students’ Union.
This can be arranged by emailing suss@tees-su.org.uk or by calling 01642 342247.
Blackbullion is an award-winning education technology company which offers free financial advice online, equipping students and graduates with money skills for life.
It provides money-smart digital education to help you make better financial decisions now and in the future.
Blackbullion is an invaluable resource and has already benefited Teesside University students with content such as tips for starting university, managing debt, budgeting skills, savings and much, much more.
Blackbullion is free to all Teesside University students, sign up now and make the most of this free resource!
We offer a range of finance appointments where we can give you advice on a number of issues including; benefit information, applications for student funding, restudy, financial hardship, student loans, suspensions and withdrawals, childcare issues and ongoing issues with Student Finance.
If you would like to make an appointment please email studentlife@tees.ac.uk , telephone 01642 342277 or call in to the Student Life Building.
The Placement Support Fund assists students who are experiencing financial difficulties attending their placement.
Find out more about the Placement Support Fund

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/attendance.cfm:
If you have an individual timetable, you need to register your attendance at university using My Attendance - a new tool that you access through your personal My TU app.
At every mandatory class you attend, your lecturer will give you a four digit code.
You need to enter the code into My Attendance to confirm your attendance throughout your studies.
We're committed to providing the support you need to help you maintain good attendance at university.
By logging your attendance, we can see how you are doing at key milestones so that support can be provided by your tutors, course leaders and other specialist staff when needed.
We understand that there may be reasons why you will not be able to attend university.
If there is anything that might affect your attendance, or if you need any additional help or support, we encourage you to speak to your personal tutor.
You can also get a range of support and advice on everything from financial matters, to disability support, to counselling from the Student Life team.
My TUapp

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/stream.cfm:
Think of StREAM as a fitness app for your education.
This new tool will help you monitor your own learning and take control of your future.
Using data we already have, such as attendance, log-in activity and card swipes, StREAM provides a personalised engagement dashboard to help you map your own student experience.
It provides a personal picture of how you engage with learning opportunities and it will provide a focus for coaching conversations with your personal tutor.
StREAM is here to support you.
It will generate an individual engagement rating, providing you with a better understanding of how you are doing and what you can do to improve, if anything.
Your engagement data will only be shared with key staff relevant to your studies who will work with you on enhancing your performance and understanding how small changes can generate maximum impact.
By working together, we'll help you to get the most from your studies and your future career.
Access StREAM StREAM help
Engagement is a term that refers to how you are interacting with the university in various categories that reflect your daily life as a student.
Interactions such as your attendance, library card swipes and postings on Blackboard Ultra (BbU) are all signs that you are participating in the daily business of being a Teesside University student.
Staff can also use StREAM to record their interactions with you, such as when you stop by for a meeting with your Personal Tutor, or when you have an appointment with the Student Journey Team.
Research shows that if a student is more engaged with their course - for example if they are interacting with support on campus, attending classes, using online learning materials in Blackboard - they are typically more likely to progress in their studies.
As such, we encourage our students to interact with the StREAM platform, so you are aware of how your engagement fares over time and compared to your peers.
This is not to panic you - we know sometimes that there may be valid reasons why you cannot attend class or why you haven't logged on to university systems.
But it is a useful way for you to see if you are more likely to need support at certain times in your studies.
If you spot that your engagement dips and you feel you need support, reach out to your personal tutor.
They'll be able to see your StREAM dashboard too and, if you do need support, your tutor can refer you to support services via StREAM.
You can see the update on these referrals on your StREAM interactions page too.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/personal_tutoring.cfm:
Our goal with Personal Tutoring is to offer you consistent, fair, and structured support for your academic, personal, and professional growth.
The relationship you build with your Personal Tutor is important, from helping you to settle into student life, right through to preparing you for your career after your studies.
Your Personal Tutor provides you with the opportunity to reflect on your academic progress and discuss your general well-being and university experience.
You can reach out to your Personal Tutor for any support you need.
We're here to help you succeed.
Get the most out of your meetings with your Personal Tutor.
During these sessions, you can discuss your academic progress, seek advice on your studies, and gain support.
Your Personal Tutor is there to support you.
View our useful tips on how to prepare for your meetings with your Personal Tutor.
Make a list of topics you want to discuss, gather any relevant documents or assignments, and think about your academic goals.
Being well-prepared will help you make the most of your time with your tutor.
Our FAQs provide further information on personal tutoring.
Here, you can find answers to common questions about the role of a Personal Tutor and when you will meet your tutor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/printing.cfm:
The University's print credit payment facility provides an easy, flexible method to enable you to top up your print credit.
Reprographics is our photocopying, large format print and finishing service for student projects, dissertations and assignments.
More about Reprographics

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/regulations.cfm:
You must familiarise yourself with the University's regulations, policies, procedures and codes of practice.
You are expected to abide by them and they ensure that your rights are protected during your time at the University.
If you are studying at a Partner College you should follow the college's policies and procedures in the first instance.
However, you must also familiarise yourself with the University's regulations because they apply to you and your programme, and they ensure that your rights are protected during your time with the University.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/step_to_success.cfm:
Your guide to transitioning into University life and gaining support throughout your journey.
Whether you are a new student or continuing your studies, the Student Journey team are here to support you.
They provide information and guidance to help you get the most from your student experience.
Find out how to settle into University life and gain useful tools to overcome some of the obstacles that you may encounter during your time here.
Good luck on your journey.
The Student Journey Team are here when you need them.
Student Journey Team If in doubt, seek us out.
We understand the importance of preparing for university.
Our tips, and advice from other students, will help you to prepare and increase your confidence.
Settling in to new surroundings, making friends or even finding your way around campus can seem daunting.
Our guides and tips will help you feel at home.
We want you to have an enjoyable experience and productive time at Teesside University.
Learn more about enhancing your skills, managing your expectations and successful studying.
We hope that your student journey runs smoothly, but there may be times when you are feeling unsure and would like a little extra help and somebody to talk to.
Whatever it is, don't worry, we have lots of support here to help you.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/handbook.cfm:
The Student Handbook directs you to essential information about the University's services, facilities and regulations, and signposts you to further information where appropriate.
The Student handbook

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/studentvoice.cfm:
Find out how we capture the student voice, from feedback to our student partnerships and collaborations, and how you can get involved.
We're committed to giving you the best student experience possible during your time at Teesside - but we need your help to get it right.
Share your thoughts on the academic side of university life and the frontline services you use to help us shape the student experience for everyone.
There are a wide range of ways in which the University gathers your feedback, from the National Student Survey and regular check-ins to our student voice meetings.
Find out more about why we gather feedback, what it is used for and the outcomes.
Student voice is more than feedback - it's all about expressing your thoughts and opinions through partnership and collaboration across the University.
There are additional opportunities for you to amplify the student voice.
Are you passionate about uplifting the student voice?
Find out how our student ambassadors, course representatives, school representatives and Students' Union Officers amplify the student voice and how you can get involved.
We value your feedback, so we have various ways you can share your opinion with staff and other students across the university to effect change:
Try to describe a particular situation when giving feedback.
Describe the exact event and how it happened.
Consider everything that affects a situation, so that a fair judgement can be made.
Strive for a balance between highlighting what works well and suggesting areas for improvement.
Feedback should be fair, accurate and balanced.
Maintain a respectful tone and remember you can provide constructive feedback and still be heard!
Give prompt feedback at the next suitable moment while the feedback is still fresh in mind.
Everything you need to know about being a student at Teesside University, including useful information, resources and links, can be found here.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/student_welfare.cfm:
There are several services available within Student Life for you to access support during your time at Teesside University.
You will find useful information about them below.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/timetabling.cfm:
You can access your personalised timetable through your MyTU portal .
More about timetabling

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/emergency.cfm:
You could tell a family member or friend how you're feeling so they can help you get the support you need.
For urgent help and support, please use the following contact information:
For any emergency requiring urgent assistance
The crisis team is based in Roseberry Park, Marton Road, Middlesbrough.
For more information, please visit their website: https://www.tewv.nhs.uk/services/crisis-and-intensive-home-treatment-team/
You may be experiencing a mental health crisis or emergency if your mental or emotional state declines quite quickly.
This can be a worrying experience, especially if you haven't felt like this before.
You may feel like you are unable to cope or that you do not feel in control of how you feel.
This could include having thoughts of self-harm, suicide, or experiencing extreme distress or hallucinations.
You could be in crisis if you:
If you are experiencing a mental health crisis, it is important to get help as quickly as possible by contacting services who can provide an assessment, and help you access appropriate support.
If you are already accessing support from mental health services, we would recommend contacting your key worker such as your Community Practice Nurse if possible.
If you have a safety plan in place, this will help you to identify what you need to do, including contact information for support and strategies you could use to help you manage the feelings you are having.
If you are in immediate danger of harming yourself or another person, contact 999 or NHS 111 and select the mental health option for crisis support.
You could also contact someone you trust to ask them to come and see you, or go to a safe place such as a friends or family members house where you know you will be supported.
Ask them to contact emergency services or the crisis team on your behalf if you need to.
You can phone your GP and ask for an emergency appointment, telling the staff member who answers your call that you are experiencing a mental health crisis.
If you are in immediate danger of harming yourself or another person, contact 999 or  or NHS 111 and select the mental health option for crisis support.
If you aware that someone else is in crisis and is in immediate danger such as they have told you they intend to harm themselves, or there is a medical emergency such as they have taken an overdose, it is important to contact 999 .
If the person is in a place of safety with you or someone else they trust, you should encourage them to contact NHS 111 and select the mental health option for crisis support.
When on the phone it is important to provide the location of the person you are concerned about along with their contact information if you have it.
You can also ask the person you are concerned about whether they have a safety plan, and encourage them to follow the information on the plan.
We have a team of specialist mental health advisers and practitioners based in the Student Life Building who can help you if you feel you are experiencing a mental health crisis.
You can come to the Student Life Building and talk to a member of staff at the information desk.
They will take you to a quiet space and contact a member of the specialist team to come and talk to you.
If you feel unable to come to the Student Life Building, ask a member of staff nearby if they can help you or call the information desk 01642 342277 or security 01642 342086 .
When you are seen by an adviser, a full assessment will take place.
This will include talking about:
We will work with you to help minimise any risk of harm to yourself or to other people and support you to access any service which can help.
We may also create a safety plan with you if needed.
The time taken to complete an assessment depends on the individual and their situation.
We will always ensure you are able to access any immediate support if needed from other services such as the NHS crisis team.
You can find more information about this service here: https://www.tewv.nhs.uk/services/crisis-and-intensive-home-treatment-team/
We may refer you/signpost you to internal and/or external services following the initial assessment.
You may be offered a follow up appointment in person or over the phone to check to see how you are feeling after the initial assessment and to see if you have managed to access any services we have referred you to.
You may be offered ongoing appointments with a mental health adviser/practitioner to make any referrals to specialist services such as counselling, create a safety plan, or develop strategies to help manage your mental health.
We will always work with you to decide together on the most appropriate support.
If you or someone else are experiencing a mental health crisis outside of office hours, contact 999 or NHS 111 and select the mental health option for crisis support.
Try to go to a place of safety where possible and tell someone you trust how you are feeling, such as a friend or family member.
If you are in student accommodation, we would encourage you to contact your warden.
If you are on campus, you can visit the security team (ground floor of the Library) who will also be able to help you.
If you are not in crisis but need to talk to someone, you can find contact information and other resources here .
If you are not in crisis but would like to talk to someone about how you are feeling, you can use the following support services
Telephone: 116 123 (free - 24hrs) Email: jo@samaritans.org
Telephone: 0808 189 5260 (3pm-12am each day free) Text: Text 'student' to 85258 Email: students@themix.org.uk (aim to respond within 24 hours) Webchat: Visit https://studentspace.org.uk/support-services/webchat-support (4pm-11pm each day)
Please visit the following link for information about support when feeling low or anxious.
If you would like support from the university you can email studentlife@tees.ac.uk to request a Student Support Initial Assessment, to explore what support is available to you.
For more information, please visit our mental health page
But, there are some exceptions where we have a duty of care to share information without your consent:
We keep this data so that we can keep track of your enquiry and our response for future reference.
For more information, please refer to the university's General Privacy Notice for students
If you would like to make a formal complaint, please refer to the information on our complaints page

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/studentfutures/support.cfm:
Whatever stage you're at with your career plans, we can help you work out your options.
Visit the your career sector area in the Careers and Enterprise section on Blackboard for career specific guidance, or come along and see our team in the Student Life Building.
Join us at our live and virtual events where you can access support for career planning and progression, meet employers offering advice and opportunities, and get the latest advice on job search, applications, assessment centres and interviews.
First impressions really count.
You have seconds to convince an employer you have got what they are looking for.
Visit the Careers and Enterprise section on Blackboard to find out what to include in your CV and covering letter, ways to write about the skills and experience you have and how to make every word count.
Application forms are used as a selection tool and are often focussed on competency and strengths-based questions.
To be successful you need to use structured answers that contain the best examples of your experience.
Find out how to do this by visiting the Careers and Enterprise section on Blackboard.
Interviews provide you with the chance to demonstrate that you are the strongest candidate by describing your skills, strengths, experience, knowledge, interests and values.
Preparation before your interview is vital to ensure success.
To prepare for your interview, access our interview guides on the Careers and Enterprise section on Blackboard.
You can also speak to the team about practice interviews .
Many employers use psychometric tests and assessment centres as part of the selection process.
To make sure you're ready for this part of the process, visit the assessments portal where you can access hundreds of practice tests.
Develop the skills you need to succeed in your career through guided workflows, feedback and support.
Access the skills development pathways by logging onto the Student Futures Portal.
Your experience is what will make you stand out from the crowd when you're taking those next steps after University.
Whether you're looking for a part-time job, placement or internship, volunteering opportunities or graduate role, Student Futures has hundreds of opportunities available right now.
Visit the Student Futures Portal to view the vacancies that are available now or to find out more about the opportunities on offer to our students and graduates visit the Student Opportunities page

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/studentfutures/graduate.cfm:
Our package of support has been commended for using strategic and tailored approaches that are highly effective in supporting students to succeed in, and progress beyond their studies.
The Student Futures team is here to give you the tools and skills you need to take that next step into employment after graduation.
Finalists and graduates who would like to access employment support can join the Student Futures Talent Pool.
Once signed up you will receive advice and guidance from the Graduate Support Team.
This will include one to one support and resources that will develop your CV, Job search skills and interview skills.
If you would like to find out more about the Talent Pool please email graduateemployment@tees.ac.uk .
We have hundreds of employers who are looking to recruit Teesside Graduates.
You can view and apply for vacancies on the Student Futures Portal .
If you need guidance on applying for vacancies you can also access skills development pathways on the portal or connect to the Graduate Support Team by emailing graduateemployment@tees.ac.uk.
To make aure you’re ready for this part of the process visit the Graduates First Assessment Portal where you can access hundreds of practice tests.
Stay connected and become one of over 150,00 graduates in our worldwide alumni network.
Connect to the alumni network .
Our internship programme connects graduates with employers, giving them an opportunity to showcase and use the knowledge and experience they have gained at University.
These internships are offered with a range of organisations and are part of the ongoing support that is available to our graduates.
To find out more about the opportunities on offer, please email graduateemployment@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/studentfutures/enterprise:
Programmes Manager
Enteprise Manager
At Teesside University, we believe your ideas have the power to shape the future.
That's why we've made it our mission to support students and graduates in turning their ambitions into real-world ventures.
We've helped launch over 700 businesses - from innovative tech startups to bold creative agencies.
Together, they generated nearly £120 million in annual turnover by the end of 2024.
That's not just numbers on a page - it's proof of what's possible when passion meets the right support.
Whether you're exploring an idea or ready to launch, you'll be part of a thriving community of innovators and changemakers.
In fact, around three quarters of these businesses are in the digital and tech space, helping make Teesside one of the UK's most exciting regions for tech growth.
Some standout businesses that started with students and graduates just like you include:
FUEL, Teesside University's dynamic business start-up course designed to ignite entrepreneurial ambition.
Hear from business management student Terence Stravens on his time at Teesside and experience of Launchpad.
You don't need a background in business to get started - you just need an idea, a bit of drive, and the right guidance.
And that's exactly what we're here to provide.
Your journey could be next.
Enterprise@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/studentfutures:
We have hundreds of jobs, internships and summer placements to apply for on our Jobs portal.
Your dedicated on-campus recruitment team support final year students and graduates looking for jobs.
We connect you with organisations and provide support with CVs, applications and interviews.
More about graduate support
Interested in helping shape the future of higher education?
Have your say by completing the Higher Education Statistics Agency's (HESA) Graduate Outcomes survey.
More about the Graduate Outcomes survey
Unitemps is Teesside University's student recruitment agency, giving you access to employment opportunities to fit alongside your studies.
See events

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/student_workers.cfm:
Find out more about and apply for a wide range of student jobs and placements.
Join our team of inspirational student ambassadors who actively promote higher education at Teesside University on and off campus, and get paid for your efforts.
We aim to showcase the diversity of our students by recruiting ambassadors with a range of academic backgrounds, career aspirations, nationalities and personalities.
As a student ambassador you must be able to apply yourself to a range of events and activities.
Most of all you must be passionate about Teesside University and higher education.
Being a student ambassador boosts your personal and professional development by providing opportunities to expand your interpersonal and networking skills and gain employer visibility, meet people, improve your public speaking, and gain valuable experience.
More about Student ambassadors
Get involved in an exciting research project and get paid.
You will work with experienced researchers, developing your skills and knowledge of the research process.
More about Students as researchers
Find and apply for the latest student job vacancies, including opportunities to work within the Students' Union.
More about Students' Union job service
From Library Assistants to Sports Assistants you can set up alerts for jobs in the University.
More about jobs at the University
Gain valuable project management experience while working with an academic member of staff and get paid on a 3-6 month CreatorLab Fellowship
More about CreatorLab Fellows
Unitemps Teesside helps you to gain valuable work experience through part-time work or student friendly jobs, so you can kick-start your career and make the most of your time at University.
With a range of flexible roles available, you can develop new and existing skills for your CV.
More about Unitemps
Most importantly REMEMBER your well-being is paramount
Please download the 'My Healthy Advantage' App for 24/7 support service.
This service is provided free of charge for TU students, by Health Assured.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/studentfutures/opportunities.cfm:
Industry experience is a fantastic way to move forward with your career, develop your skills, knowledge and networks and boost your future prospects.
Many graduate employers use placement schemes as a way to find their future employees.
It's never too early to start thinking about a year in industry and the Student Opportunities Team are here to help.
Come along to a drop-in session or Get in touch to register your interest and access support .
One of the options available for your advanced / applied practice module is pursuing an external internship with an employer.
The Student Opportunities Team in Student Futures are here to support you when you are looking and applying for positions.
You can find out more by signing up to attend a masters internship workshop or come along to a drop-in session .
Connect to the community with our volunteering opportunities and earn recognition for your volunteering hours.
Volun-tees is our dedicated volunteering programme that encourages students to develop their employability skills through volunteering and connects them to a wider range of opportunities with voluntary and community organisations.
Find out about the opportunities on offer here , or come and see the team to discuss how to get started .
Teesside University Global offers students a range of opportunities to gain international experience, including studying abroad, internships, volunteering, and health placements.
The team is here to support you in finding and applying for these life-changing experiences, helping you every step of the way as you explore the world.
To find out more please email TUGlobal@tees.ac.uk
If you are looking for part-time work and need support, please come and see our dedicated on site recruitment team Unitemps in the Student Life building.
They will help you to find and secure the right position for you .
Are you looking for a graduate role?
Find out about the graduate support on offer here .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/lis:
26 Aug 2025
Events and workshops including Library skills workshops and student support activities.
Other university events
Contact us Monday - Friday: 9.00am - 5.00pm

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university:
Teesside University is founded on a rich heritage, which has influenced its development into the dynamic, energetic and innovative institution it is today.
Discover more about our University and the communities we serve, plus information about our achievements, our latest news and a schedule of forthcoming events.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/worldwide.cfm:
Our students, graduates and staff are internationally connected in work and community.
Here at Teesside we want to ensure all our students, graduates and staff have the skills and ability to work and live in a global environment.
We prepare our students for work in a global workforce whether they: work abroad as part of their career work for an international company have international clients work in an ethnically diverse community.
Welcoming many cultures The University is internationally connected.
We recruit students and staff from many places and backgrounds.
We deliver courses all over the world and our students study abroad on exchanges.
Learn with many cultures As well as a community of over 1,400 students from overseas, there are a number of ways to learn with many cultures.
Languages Our international students are offered English language courses before they start and support once they are here.
More about English language support Our Teesside language café offers a relaxed, friendly setting for anyone seeking an informal way of practising their spoken French, German or Spanish.
More about Teesside language café Explore many cultures Our Students' Union offers many fun and friendship events for all cultures and nationalities.
More about the Students' Union The region offers a number of international festivals.
There's Stockton's international riverside festival, a spectacular event showcasing performers from all over the world and Middlesbrough Mela which celebrates Asian culture.
The University is internationally connected.
As well as a community of over 1,400 students from overseas, there are a number of ways to learn with many cultures.
Our international students are offered English language courses before they start and support once they are here.
More about English language support
Our Teesside language café offers a relaxed, friendly setting for anyone seeking an informal way of practising their spoken French, German or Spanish.
More about Teesside language café
Our Students' Union offers many fun and friendship events for all cultures and nationalities.
More about the Students' Union
The region offers a number of international festivals.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/alliance.cfm:
Teesside University is a proud member of the University Alliance – a group of institutions leading the way in technical and professional education, training, enterprise, innovation, and research and development.
As an Alliance member, we are civic leaders, with a shared mission to transform major regions, cities and communities across the UK.
Together, we are committed to creating a world-class technical, professional and vocational education system, underpinned with clear analysis and evidence.
Alongside fellow Alliance members, we educate the professional workforce of the future, provide flexible and responsive research and development to businesses, and work to solve the problems facing society.
By being part of University Alliance, Teesside University is able to forge strong links with key organisations, business leaders and Government, enabling us to drive policy debate, creation and implementation.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/unee.cfm:
Universities for North East England is the unified place-informed voice of Higher Education in North East England.
Advocating for evidence-based policy development, investment and widening access and participation in Higher Education.
Universities for North East England is a collaboration between the Universities of Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria, Sunderland and Teesside, working alongside the Tees Valley and North East Combined Authorities.
Speaking in a unified, place-informed voice to make higher education accessible for study, business, innovation, and investment and offering regional insight to help inform national Higher Education policy.
The Vice-Chancellors from the five North East England Universities
Advocacy for the five Regional Universities and for the North East
The voice of the sector and the region, positioning North East universities to advocate for evidence-based policy development.
Working with industry in the UK and internationally to promote North East England as an attractive place to invest in business, infrastructure and innovation.
Enabling access to Higher Education through our collective widening participation efforts, supporting global social mobility and through our civic responsibilities.
Work in this area is through our collective partnerships with the North East Raising Aspirations Partnership , Outreach North East and through our partnership work overseas.
Our global ambition is to position the North East universities collectively as anchor institutions.
We will ensure that the universities’ shared commitment to the economic, social and cultural success of the North East is fully understood by our audiences.
Funding to develop the innovation ecosystem in the North East has been warmly welcomed by Universities for North East England (UNEE).
The Universities for North East England partnership could be a blueprint for the rest of the UK, an MP has told an event in Parliament.
A new project to strengthen collaboration between universities and businesses and others to drive growth and create jobs in North East England has received major funding from the UK Government.
New analysis reveals the critical role that university graduates play in driving growth in the North East of England, including by starting their own businesses.
The five universities in North East England have responded to the UK Government’s priorities for higher education reform, indicating their commitment to work together and with others to accelerate economic growth in the region.
The five universities of North East England, which collectively contribute £2.7 billion and 33,500 jobs to the UK’s economy*, will later this year launch a new partnership to strengthen their collaboration to achieve even greater social and economic impact.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/visiting:
Find out about visiting Teesside University - campus map, car parking and location, plus travel directions and contact details.
You can also discover more about Middlesbrough & Tees Valley - our guide to exploring one of the UKs most varied and vibrant regions.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/visiting/parking.cfm:
Information about on campus parking, EV charging, costs, park and ride, terms and conditions, and much more, is listed below.
Choose the box that applies to you.
There are no notices currently.
General car parking enquiries:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/governance:
Meet the people who lead Teesside University and shape its direction - you can find biographies of  our Executive leadership team and the board of Governors.
We also provide information relating to charitable status and our partnerships with academies and trusts, Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art (mima), and DigitalCity.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/governance/uet.cfm:
Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive
Professor Paul Croney OBE is Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of Teesside University.
He has worked in four universities and held a succession of leadership roles over a thirty-year career in higher education, including the Director of Sheffield Business School, the Dean of Newcastle Business School, and the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) and Deputy Vice-Chancellor at Northumbria University.
Professor Croney is a board member of Universities UK and the University Alliance and director of several Teesside University group ventures.
An academic scholar in the field of management and business education, Professor Croney has embedded an entrepreneurial outlook at Teesside University, leading with authenticity and ambition.
His dedication to transforming lives and economies through education was recognised with an OBE for services to higher education and economic regeneration in 2021.
Chief Operating Officer Equality & Diversity Champion (Disability)
Malcolm moved to Teesside University in 2013 from his position as Executive Director of Commercial and Corporate Services at Sunderland City Council.
He has previously worked as Deputy Chief Executive at the Regional Development Agency, One North East - also holding roles at the Agency including Assistant Chief Executive (Resources) and Executive Director of Corporate Resources.
He is a fully qualified accountant with an MBA.
Malcolm brings with him considerable strategic, corporate and resource management experience and a strong track record of operating and delivering at Board level.
He also has significant experience in managing large and complex budgets and in the development and delivery of regeneration and property activities, alongside wide ranging exposure to both innovation and the commercial environment.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor Equality & Diversity Champion (Ethnic and Cultural Diversity)
Professor Mark Simpson graduated from Teesside University with a degree in politics and a PhD in Criminology.
He has written and researched in the fields of youth crime, youth justice and drug use.
He was a director of the British Society of Criminology for over nine years.
Holding numerous roles within the University, he was previously Dean of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law.
He has a national reputation for teaching and learning and is a Principal Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of the Arts (FRSA).
Mark is a Local Ambassador for the Prince’s Trust.
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research and Knowledge Exchange)
Professor Stephen Cummings is responsible for Teesside’s research and knowledge exchange portfolio, prior to taking up this role he was Dean of the School of Science & Engineering from 2016, Dean of the School of Health & Life Sciences from 2019 and Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation from 2021.
He holds a personal Chair in Microbiology and has researched and published extensively on the microbial ecology in a number of environments and disease states, including, bioremediation of contaminated soils, cystic fibrosis and infections of preterm infants.
He is currently chair of the UK2070 Commission’s Teesside Taskforce and a director of Teesside University Enterprise and Innovation (TUEI) venture.
Previously he was a member of the Council of Governors for the South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Pro Vice-Chancellor (International) Equality & Diversity Champion (Faith and Belief)
Warren joined Teesside University as a Senior Lecturer in 2002, following a career in film and television.
Alongside his teaching, he developed a range of industry and educational partnerships with some of the UK’s largest media companies to develop the digital capability of SME’s and freelancers in the northeast region.
Warren’s practice-based research is concerned with aspects of the working-class cultural history of Teesside.
In 2018, Warren was appointed as Associate Dean (International) for the Business School.
He expanded both international student recruitment and Transnational Education, playing a key role in the development of partnerships in the Czech Republic, Italy, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, and Uzbekistan.
Prior to his appointment as Pro Vice-Chancellor, he was appointed as the Dean of Teesside University International Business School in 2020.
Executive Director (Human Resources) Equality & Diversity Champion (LGBTQ+)
Juliet Amos joined Teesside University in 2006 having previously worked at Northumbria University as Assistant Human Resources Director.
Juliet is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Juliet leads the human resources strategy and management at the University including staff planning and reviews, reward and recognition initiatives, the HR Advisory function, occupational health and safety and all equality and diversity work relating to staff.
She is also responsible for the provision of staffing information to inform Executive decision making and the statistical returns to the Higher Education Statistical Agency.
Executive Director (Legal & Governance Services and University Secretary) Equality & Diversity Champion (Gender)
Helen joined Teesside University in June 2017 as the Executive Director of Legal and Governance Services & University Secretary.
Helen is a qualified lawyer and prior to joining Teesside, was Director of Legal and Governance at University of Sunderland where she worked for over 12 years, having worked in private practice before that.
Helen’s current role requires her to have oversight of the University’s legal and regulatory compliance, including information governance and safeguarding, as well as leading on the modernisation of the University’s governance practices and is an active Member of the University Executive Team.
Helen provides the support to the University’s Board of Governors to enable them to effectively discharge their responsibilities as governors and trustees of the University.
She is also company secretary for the University’s subsidiary companies.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/governance/governors.cfm:
Students' Union President (Wellbeing).
Clinton is originally from Nigeria and most recently completed a course in photography at Teesside University.
He chose to study here after being impressed by the amazing facilities available on his preferred course and the diverse community that he feels allows most international students to settle in quickly.
He was elected by his fellow students to represent them and ensure their voice is heard in March 2025 and will serve in the role until July 2026.
CEO, Visualsoft
Ada was Chief Executive of Darlington Borough Council until 2018 and prior to moving to the north east in 2005, occupied senior positions in London Councils.
She has played leadership roles in the Tees Valley and in the North East, and has experience in governance of FE and Sixth form institutions.
Ada is currently a Non-Executive Director of the South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and a Trustee of a community arts centre in Barnard Castle.
Operations & Facilities Manager, National Horizons Centre
Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of Teesside University.
Nick is currently Chief Strategy Officer at Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult with over thirty years of experience delivering sustained value creation through the commercialisation of science and technology.
Nick's previous senior roles include Commercial Director, Centre for Process Innovation Ltd; Strategic Marketing Director, Johnson Matthey; and Strategic Marketing Director, Catalent.
Nick currently holds Non-Executive Director position at Life Science Index Limited.
Director/trustee of the Teesside-based Halo Project charity; National Advisor to the Welsh Government on Violence Against Women, Domestic Abuse & Sexual Violence; Alumna of Teesside University.
Vice-Chancellor's Adviser, Coventry University; formally Vice-Chancellor, Wolverhampton.
Scott is a Fellow of the Institute of the Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He is currently employed as Executive Director of Resources at Karbon Homes with responsibility for finance, treasury, people and organisational development, ICT and digital transformation.
His previous positions have included senior finance and general management roles within the housebuilding sector.
Daniel is currently a Senior Lecturer from the School of Health and Life Sciences where he leads our chiropractic provision.
In 2024 Daniel was awarded National Teaching Fellowship by Advance HE for making an outstanding impact on student outcomes and the teaching profession.
Daniel sits on the Education Committee of the General Chiropractic Council and Education Task Force for the Global Alliance for Musculoskeletal Health (G-MUSC).
Passionate about the transformative potential of higher education, Daniel engages in research and knowledge exchange projects focused on the impact Teesside University can have, both in the Tees Valley and internationally as far afield as Malaysia & Chile
Joel is Director of Analytic Learning, a specialist consultancy focused on global education and skills policy and research.
Joel's particular expertise relates to educational planning and financing, TVET and school-to-work transitions, and edtech.
He has worked extensively with UN agencies, governments, NGOs and educational institutions.
Originally from Middlesbrough, he previously worked on skills policy development for the Mayor of London, and in strategy for the edtech agency Jisc.
Kate is the founder of K8OS Leadership & Coaching Ltd and offers significant operational and leadership experience with the Sports, Higher Education, Chemicals, and volunteering sectors.
Kate has a number of non-executive roles and is the former Deputy Chair of British Rowing.
Students' Union President (International).
Ganesh is originally from India and most recently completed a course in Food Science and Biotechnology at Teesside University.
He chose to study here because of its reputation as one of the best universities in the country for his course and having been impressed with the quality of teaching, research opportunities and industry connections.
He was elected by his fellow students to represent them and particularly ensure the voice of international students is heard in March 2025 and will serve in the role until July 2026.
Alfredo Ramos is Investment Director at the High Value Manufacturing Catapult, where he leads the organization's investor engagement and investment strategy.
Alfredo has forged his career in highly entrepreneurial settings, bringing deep tech investment expertise from both investor and entrepreneur perspectives.
A multilingual senior executive with over 15 years of experience in business leadership, strategic planning, and consulting across diverse industries and geographies, he substantially contributed to the scale-up and exit of high-growth innovative technology companies as a key member of the executive leadership and established corporate venturing operations from the ground up.
Richard has held various roles within the Scottish Government since 2007 and is currently Director of International Trade & Investment, Scottish Government with lead responsibility for Scottish Government policy and delivery on international trade and investment including leadership and management of staff.
Richard is currently a Board Member of the Scottish Ballet.
Dermot is currently Head of Corporate Finance at PD Ports having previously been Group Chief Finance Officer for some 16 years.
Prior to taking up employment with PD Ports in 2000, Dermot held senior positions with Northumbrian Water, Grainger Plc and Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
Claire is currently Legal Director at Johnson & Johnson MedTech UK & Ireland.
Prior to taking up her current role, Claire's previous senior positions have included Senior Corporate Counsel, Establishment Labs Inc, Vice-President Commercial Legal, Sage plc, and Global Lead Commercial Counsel, BioRad Laboratories Inc.
Claire is currently a Director and Trustee of the Great North Air Ambulance Service
Director, Henry Moore Foundation.
Formerly:  Director, Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Gateshead;  Founding Director, MIMA, Middlesbrough;  Director, Southampton City Art Gallery;  Director, Cultural Instructions, London.
Trusteeship: Northern Art Collection.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/charitable_status.cfm:
Teesside University has charitable status and is exempt from registering under the terms of the Charities Act 2011.
This means that the University does not have a registered charity number.
The Office for Students (OfS) is the main regulator of higher education in England and it requires that the information on this page is made readily available.
The University’s legal name is Teesside University.
This is also the University’s preferred name.
The correspondence address is Borough Road, Middlesbrough, TS1 3BX.
Contact the University
The University’s trustees are its Board of Governors.
Information about the membership of the Board of Governors is on the Board of Governors page .
The University’s financial statements are published on the website.
Financial statements

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/governance/partners.cfm:
The University has a large portfolio of programmes run in collaboration with a wide range of partners – UK colleges, international partners, and employers.
A list showing our partners, the nature of the partnership, and the programmes operated can be downloaded.
Download the external collaborative partner list (pdf - 105kb)
The University also has Articulation Agreements with a number of partners which enable students who have successfully completed some partner programmes to enter onto a Teesside University programme with advanced standing.
A list of the partners with whom we have Articulation Agreements can be downloaded.
Download a list of articulation agreement partners (pdf - 10kb)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/governance/mima.cfm:
In September 2014 Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art (MIMA) became part of Teesside University, combining two public institutions to support each other and build on mima’s success.
MIMA’s programme plays a key role in the cultural ecology of North East England, particularly Teesside, and is internationally recognised for its mission.
It integrates exhibitions and collection displays with learning activities, off-site projects, commissions and community-focused initiatives.
Funded by Arts Council England and Middlesbrough Council, it is a member of the Plus Tate network and partner of ‘The Uses of Art – The Legacy of 1848 and 1989’, a project by the European museums confederation L’Internationale.
We invite you to join us on our journey to becoming a museum for a new age – museum 3.0.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/governance/tucp.cfm:
The Teesside University College Partnership (TUCP) will provide opportunities, across the Tees Valley, for entry to Teesside University higher education courses, delivered to an excellent standard by our partner colleges.
Teesside University and our partner colleges share similar values and a passion for the Tees Valley.
As partners, we strive to address the economic needs of the Tees Valley through a seamless pathway of education and training to higher education level.
Together we are able to expand and respond to the economic and education climate through shared strategic thinking and innovative collaboration with businesses.
Professor Mark Simpson, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
This joined up approach enables us to offer everything from foundation degrees, apprenticeships to master’s from wherever in the Tees Valley and whatever the student’s age.
We want to retain as many talented individuals within this region as we possibly can.
The partnership benefits the University, colleges and especially the students.
We are all fully committed to giving students the knowledge, skills and experience they need to succeed.
They will have access, not only to all the superb facilities at their place of study but also those at the Middlesbrough campus of Teesside University – including the library and Students’ Union.
Our drive to create an inspirational and stimulating environment with the facilities, technologies and support for effective learning and development is shared by our college partners.
With £280m invested to date here at Teesside University, our campus masterplan sets out a dynamic and ambitious programme of investment to 2027, transforming the campus and providing vibrant and modern facilities to enhance the experience of students, staff and partners.
Recent developments include our £41.4m Digital Life building – a catalyst for physical and digital collaboration and study, simulating an industry-quality digital studio experience for students and businesses, BIOS – high-quality, leading-edge labs for the sciences and clinical subjects, a significant refurbishment of our Library, and we have also in recent years completed the Student Life building for all student-facing services, and repurposing of the Victoria building to provide business enterprise incubation space for students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information:
We provide financial information and University statistics on staff and student numbers.
Teesside University job vacancies are listed, as well as our regulations, policies, data protection statement, and information on our commitment to the environment and freedom of information.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/publications.cfm:
Download the University Corporate Strategy 2027
Download the value for money strategy

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/equality_diversity/index.cfm:
The focus groups are formed primarily by employees, and also include student representatives from the Elected Officers of the Students' Union.
View the groups Diversity champions
The groups meet regularly and act as a conduit between their members and the wider University community.
They enable issues relevant to those particular protected characteristics to be discussed.
Every member of staff is invited to join any of the staff focus groups.
Click below to meet our focus groups chairs:
Advocating for disabled colleagues and students to influence positive change so everyone has the opportunity to reach their potential.
Our Ethnic and Cultural Diversity (ECD) focus group has staff and student representation and is open to anyone with an interest in ethnic and cultural diversity issues.
Our group aims to remove barriers to achievement by improving the representation, progression and success of minoritised ethnic staff and students within Teesside University.
Our faith and belief focus group has staff and student representation and is open to anyone with an interest in faith and belief issues.
Our group aims to support all our students and staff whether they follow a particular faith or no faith, so that our Teesside community is able to find space to engage in reflection activities that support their wellbeing or faith.
The group represents the views of staff and students of all genders in the development of new policies and practices at the University.
We also promote best practice in relation to Equality Legislation,  Athena Swan Charter and engage in relevant awareness-raising activities and initiatives.
The LGBTQ+ staff focus group is for anybody who is passionate about growing a more accepting and inclusive campus so everyone feels a sense of belonging and has representation.
We can't be what we can't see.
We host events to educate around LGBTQ+ issues and promote wellbeing within and around the community.
The equality and diversity report summarises progress made against our strategic EDI objectives that have been supported by projects and initiatives.
Malcolm Page, Chief Operating Officer: Disability
Professor Mark Simpson, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching): Ethnic and cultural diversity
Dr Warren Harrison, Pro Vice-Chancellor (International): Faith and belief
Helen Cutting, Executive Director Legal and Governance Services and University Secretary: Gender
Juliet Amos, Executive HR Director:  LGBTQ+
Each group has an executive champion who primarily acts as a figurehead for that particular protected characteristic, taking an active interest in activities by attending both internal and external events and focus group meetings, whenever possible.
They take every opportunity to raise awareness amongst staff and students, as well as supporting the progression of actions to address identified barriers and presenting relevant initiatives for approval by their executive colleagues.
These roles help to demonstrate to University staff, students and the wider public the level of importance the University places on equality, diversity and inclusion.
More about Equality and diversity

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/green_tees.cfm:
Teesside University has a dedicated approach to its environmental responsibilities and is aware of the impact the University's operations can have locally, nationally and internationally.
The University is involved in a range of initiatives that aim to both highlight and improve environmental issues.
the University’s first Green Travel Plan was implemented in 2006 in 2009 Teesside University achieved the Carbon Trust Standard, the world's first independent carbon award that requires organisations to measure, manage and reduce carbon emissions across their own operations.
The aim for Teesside University is to keep striving for environmental improvements.
The University established the Environmental Advisory Group in 2010 with a target to gain EcoCampus (platinum) accreditation.
EcoCampus is the leading environmental management system and award scheme for the higher and further education sectors.
Following the EcoCampus process has provided clarity in setting  environmental management priorities.
The University is already seeing significant benefits in terms of reduced electricity usage in IT Server systems, a reduction in the paper-based information being sent out to students and the successful cycle to work schemes.
There is always more work to do and the University will keep improving.
Secure cycle parking facilities are now FREE for all staff and students.
Facilities for cyclists
Free water refill stations are available.
Find out where on campus

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/programme_catalogue.cfm:
The programme catalogue is where you can find the course specification for your course for your year of entry which contains all the details we are required to provide under CMA laws.
A course specification is the University standard document approved by the relevant committee and consists of a number of sections describing:
The Programme Catalogue is maintained by Student Learning & Academic Registry, Teesside University.
If you have any questions, please email ProgrammeCatalogue@tees.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/universe.cfm:
Students can find lots of useful and important information on UNIverse.
And you can raise an enquiry if you can’t find what you need – saving time and providing a much easier service for student enquiries.
UNIverse should be your first point of call whenever you have a question or enquiry – empowering you to find the answers you need.
It can be accessed 24 hours a day and helps to improve the overall student experience.
UNIverse has everything you need in one place – please remember to use our self-service portal whenever you have a question or enquiry.
How to find answers with UNIverse Got questions about student life here at Teesside University?
UNIverse has the answers.
Here's how to find them...
Got questions about student life here at Teesside University?

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/minisites/nhc:
Innovation Training Partnerships
We work in partnership to discover diseases earlier, develop novel solutions and deliver life-changing and sustainable innovations for a healthier future.
Leverage cutting-edge research and solutions tailored to your needs.
Innovate with us
Unlock the potential of your workforce with tailored programmes.
Train with us
Access labs, equipment, co-creation spaces, and dedicated event facilities for your projects.
Explore our spaces
Unlocking the future of healthcare through the discovery of innovative solutions that accelerate treatments.
Empowering digital transformation in healthcare to create more inclusive, data-driven care models.
Shaping the future of medicines manufacturing through world-class training and cutting-edge research.
Driving sustainability through partnerships that develop eco-friendly biotechnologies and processes.
Innovating food and health products to optimise efficiency and quality in the supply chain.
We partner with businesses at every stage of innovation, from consultancy and development to co-creation, testing, and implementation.
Whether you're exploring new technologies, refining processes, or bringing cutting-edge solutions to market, our expertise and state-of-the-art facilities support your journey from concept to impact.
Sustainable Futures
More information
Digital Health
Bioeconomy
More partnerships
13 May 2025
6 May 2025
Looking for support with innovation, training, or facilities hire?
We're here to help your business reach new horizons.
From cutting-edge research to bespoke training and state-of-the-art facilities, we offer a range of solutions tailored to your needs.
Get in touch today to explore how we can work together to achieve your goals.
Contact us
38 John Dixon Lane , Darlington, DL1 1HG
T: 01325 529666
E: info@nationalhorizonscentre.org.uk
© National Horizons Centre 2025

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/minisites/netzero:
Learn more about our research
Meet our team
At the Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre (NZIIC), we are driving the transition towards a cleaner, greener future.
Embracing our rich industrial heritage, we are igniting a new era of innovation that will redefine industries and deliver impactful change.
Ignite the power of clean energy
Harnessing resources for sustainability
Energise efficiency and grid integration
Empowering digital transformation
Tackling emissions head-on
Where ideas spark and collaboration thrives
Teesside has long been a powerhouse of industry, driving economic growth and innovation.
Today, we stand at the forefront of a new chapter, an era that demands both environmental stewardship and economic resilience.
At the NZIIC, we are leading the charge, harnessing our collective expertise to transform Teesside's industrial landscape into a beacon of sustainable progress.
Our commitment to a sustainable future knows no borders.
We are proud to be global in outlook, forming powerful relationships with partners around the world.
These collaborations amplify our impact, enabling us to tackle the challenges of net zero on a global scale.
We are a hub of innovation, connecting businesses with the tools, expertise, and resources they need to thrive in the era of net zero.
Our multidisciplinary research and development centre houses six cutting-edge labs: Hydrogen Lab, Circular Economy Lab, Smart Energy Lab, Carbon Capture, Storage & Utilisation Lab, Digitalisation Lab, and Innovation Lab.
These labs are the engines of our transformative efforts, where collaboration and innovation come together to shape the future.
Schools and businesses across the region have learned about the importance of sustainable technology at an event supported by Teesside University.
Teesside University has brought together industry leaders, researchers, and policymakers to explore the future of hydrogen technologies and their role in achieving Net Zero targets.
We invite businesses to join forces with the Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre on this transformative journey.
Together, we will accelerate innovation, shape sustainable practices, and forge a path toward net zero emissions.
Let's create a legacy that resonates locally and inspires globally.
*The Net Zero project is receiving up to £8.85m of funding from the England European Regional Development Fund as part of the European Structural and Investment Funds Growth Programme 2014-2020.
The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government (and in London the intermediate body Greater London Authority) is the Managing Authority for European Regional Development Fund.
Established by the European Union, the European Regional Development Fund helps local areas stimulate their economic development by investing in projects which will support innovation, businesses, create jobs and local community regenerations.
For more information visit https://www.gov.uk/european-growth-funding.
© Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre 2025
Unit 7, Ferrous Road Middlesbrough, TS2 1DJ
E: netzero@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/pay_terms_online_payment.cfm:
Please read these terms and conditions carefully before using the online payment facility.
Your use of the online payment facility on this website indicates your acceptance of the terms and conditions.
All payments are subject to the following terms and conditions.
The payment details that you provide via this online payment facility are automatically encrypted when you enter them.
This site is secured using a Thawte SSL Web Server Certificate to offer secure communications by encrypting all data.
The data that you provide during this transaction is processed in accordance with the requirements and safeguards of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/catering:
We have a range of cashless catering outlets available for students, staff and visitors on campus.
Ground floor, The Library - view on a map
Latest opening times on our Instagram
Home to the Library Orangery with a hot food kitchen and Starbucks coffee offering.
Order online (The Food Quarter)
Bios - view on a map
A taste of Italy on Teesside.
Fresh pasta, sauces, toasted focaccia, fresh sandwiches and coffee.
Student Life - view on a map
Hand-stretched pizza and flatbreads, freshly grilled food and kebabs, street food specials every week, and homemade desserts.
Order collection (STREAT)
Themis - view on a map
Pan-Asian inspired menu with hot counter service and café offerings
Centuria - view on a map
Freshly made sandwiches and meal deals which offer great value for money.
The Tower - view on a map
Express style service, quick coffee and snacks.
The Curve - view on a map
Barista coffee specialising in hot chocolates, flat whites and other espresso drinks.
Our customers are at the heart of everything we do.
Your feedback is very important to us so please get in touch and let us know your thoughts.
E: catering@tees.ac.uk
Look out for regular offers and promotions on our social media channels.
Please complete the below fields to submit this form * Fields marked with an asterisk are required.
The information you provide will be added to a University database and may be used to provide you with additional information about courses, facilities and open days that we think may be of interest to you.
If applicable the Outreach and Recruitment Activities Privacy Notice also applies.
Campus-wide
We can cater for a wide range of tastes, budgets and occasions.
If you would like to discuss bespoke requirements, please email us at catering@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/pay_refund.cfm:
If you are eligible for a refund (please see Fees and Charges Regulations ) then please note the following:
We therefore ask that all payments are made online.
These are the steps you must complete to obtain your refund:
Remember that due to Anti-money Laundering Regulations the University can only refund the person who originally made the payment and will use the same method of payment to make the refund.
If the payment method requested differs from the payment method used a refund will not be issued.
Your refund will be processed as quickly as possible and you will be able to track its progress using the UNIverse enquiry number that is generated and returned to you when you submit your request.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/pay_questions.cfm:
This is similar to your student number but is  prefixed with a letter this can be found on your TUSC (also known as a library card)  e.g.
A1234567
There are a number of reasons for this:
If you need further help please email studentlife@tees.ac.uk including your student ID and the issue you are having.
You will first need confirmation from accommodation that we have accommodation for you and then select the accommodation deposit option.
Then continue through the pages to complete the process.
The accommodation office will automatically  be informed when you have paid.
The easiest and quickest way to pay is online  using the general fee payment option, you will need your student ID in order to do this.
Select tuition fees and enter the amount you want to pay and continue through the payment pages to complete.
Alternatively you can pay by:
No there isn't.
Tuition and Accommodation fees for the current academic year can be set up for instalments online using the pay a student invoice option.
This will create a recurring card payment instruction and payments will automatically be taken on the due dates of the instalments selected.
Other fee invoices  must be paid in full online using the pay a student invoice option.
If you are unable to pay in full then please  contact our credit control department on  email studentlife@tees.ac.uk who will assist further (you will need to quote your student ID).
No, we don't charge any extra for instalments.
Please refer to the latest Fees & Charges Regulations
The payments are processed on the instalment date and will take four bank working days to show on your bank account, as with any debit/credit card payment.
The bank is aware there is a pending payment and will have adjusted your available balance for this transaction.
If it has been more than four bank working days then  please  email studentlife@tees.ac.uk and we will check this for you.
Yes, although the instalment dates that have passed will become immediately due and taken from your card the same day.
All future instalments will be taken on the  due dates of the instalment arrangement selected.
There are a couple of ways you could check this:
It is likely that your enrolment is awaiting further information e.g.
modules you are taking may not have been added to your record therefore a fee could not be calculated.
There are a number of options available:
Yes.
However, the balance of the invoice will be split across the instalments selected.
No, it is not possible to set up an instalment plan until an invoice has been raised.
We don't offer this facility but do use a recurring card payment system which is linked to a debit/credit card.
An instalment plan can be set up using the make a student payment option using your chosen card, payments are then automatically taken on the due dates of the instalments.
If this is the first time you have received this email for the relevant instalment then check the following:
If both of the above are valid then please contact your bank  and ask them why they have declined the transaction.
If your card details have changed or expired then please use the update your debit/credit card details option or visit https://payonline.tees.ac.uk/customer-card-update .
Another attempt to take the instalment will be processed automatically 5 days after the first failed payment.
If this is the second time you have received this email then  you will need to ring our Credit Control department on  email studentlife@tees.ac.uk including your student ID, please do not include any debit/credit card information as this is not a secure method of communication.
Check your emails as all payments made through the online system (including recurring card payment instalments) send automated payment  confirmation emails.
Please use the update your debit/credit card details option or visit https://payonline.tees.ac.uk/customer-card-update
If you are having difficulty paying your invoice then please contact our Credit Control department on  email studentlife@tees.ac.uk
If you have:
Most of the items on the online shop are for collection (unless otherwise stated) details will be provided against the item in the shop.
Credit can be added for printing (MyPrint) and/or for cashless catering outlets (Cashless).
The first thing you need to do is activate your TUSC for MyPrint and/or Cashless by logging into apps.tees.ac.uk/mytusc .
Then wait 10 minutes before adding any credit (this will give the system time to create your account, credits made before this will not be allocated to the account).
Please note: credit made on MyPrint can only be used for printing and credit made on Cashless can only be used at catering outlets across the University campus.
It is not possible to transfer balances between these accounts.
If you do credit the wrong account then email studentlife@tees.ac.uk and ask for a refund.
Email studentlife@tees.ac.uk and we will look into this for you.
It is likely that you have added credit before the account was activated/created.
Yes, the minimum amount is £1.00 with a maximum top-up of £250.00
First of all you will need to cancel your  TUSC, you can do this by selecting the Cancel TUSC option or by logging into mytusc.tees.ac.uk .
This  will stop anyone else using it to either to gain access to University buildings or using any of the credit on it.
Next you will need to buy a replacement TUSC from the online shop .
Access and credit from the previous TUSC will then be applied to your new card.
Anyone who is known to you and who you trust to make a payment on your behalf but the responsibility for the payment lies with the student and please refer to latest Fees & Charges Regulations for consequences relating to any payments suspected of being fraudulent.
No, please see the international fees page, under 'Payment Terms'
If your question has not been answered above then please email studentlife@tees.ac.uk quoting your student ID and issue.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/fees.cfm:
We can tell you the price of a degree - but that's not the same as its value.
You really can't put a price on turning your dream into reality.
Teesside University charges £9,535 a year for full-time undergraduate degree courses, £6,340 a year for a full-time foundation degree, or other qualification below degree level (with the exception of the Cert HE Health Sciences which is £9,535 a year), and £4,635 for an HNC/HND.
Find out what is and isn't included in your tuition fee.
Students studying a classroom-based foundation year (business, humanities and social sciences) pay a lower fee of £5,760 a year, and those studying other subjects (computing, creative arts, engineering and science) pay a higher fee of £9,535 a year.
These fees apply to the 2025-26 academic year only and may be subject to inflationary increases in subsequent years of study.
The University may increase fees for subsequent years of study in line with any increases applied by the UK Government to the maximum tuition fee cap.
To give you an indication of the likely scale of any future increase, the UK government has recently suggested that future increases to the fee cap may be linked to RPIX (Retail Price Index excluding mortgage interest payments).
If you study an undergraduate course with a placement year and pay UK fees, you receive a full fee waiver for your placement year.
If you study an integrated master's course (MEng) and pay UK fees, you pay a discounted fee of either £7,710 (standard tier) or £8,365 (enhanced tier) in your final year.
The fee is dependent on the fee tier that has been agreed for this course.
The fee will be detailed on the relevant course page.
UK fee paying students studying MOptom Optometry or MSci Chiropractic, pay £9,535 a year.
Part-time undergraduate courses starting in September 2025 or January 2026 range from £4,020 to £4,758 for 120 credits.
You can find fees information for part-time undergraduate courses on each individual course page.
Tuition fees for international students vary.
The tuition fee for an international student on a full-time undergraduate degree is £17,000.
Fees for international students
Tuition fees for Teesside University online learning courses vary - please check the course page for the correct fee.
More about online learning fees
For a Higher National Certificate (HNC) you study eight modules at £495 for each module.
For the Higher National Diploma (HND) you study a maximum of 16 modules, again at £495 each.
You usually pay for one module at a time.
More about open learning engineering
Please contact  Student Life.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/pg_fees.cfm:
We can tell you the price of a postgraduate degree - but that's not the same as its value.
Some specialist courses are charged differently, with a non-standard fee.
This fee is listed on the relevant course page.
Otherwise, our standard fees are as follows:
Enhanced fees are charged for certain programmes to reflect the higher costs associated with these disciplines.
The fee applicable will be clearly stated in your offer letter.
*After a period of three years (five years for part-time students), students will pay the writing-up fee for one year (two years for part-time students).
If work is not submitted for examination within the writing-up period, the fee will normally revert to the applicable UK part-time fee (standard or enhanced tier) from the following year.
You may be able to benefit from a 20% discount towards your fees for postgraduate degrees if you have successfully completed a course at Teesside University in the previous 10 academic years.
More about the Alumni Loyalty Discount
You may be able to benefit from a 20% discount towards your fees for postgraduate degrees (on campus and online).
More about the Academic Excellence Award
A different fee and funding structure exists for UK students studying the following full-time postgraduate courses:
Please note that all fees may be subject to annual increase.
These  courses are now eligible for funding through the Student Loans Company under the  same terms and conditions as undergraduate tuition fee and maintenance loans.
They are currently not eligible for any further discounts on fees, such as the  postgraduate 20% tuition fee discount.
More  about healthcare education funding for postgraduate, dental hygiene and dental  therapy students .
Additional  financial support is available from the NHS for these courses.
More about the Learning  Support Fund .
Tuition fees for Teesside University online learning courses vary - see the course page for the correct fee.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/fees.cfm:
Information on costs, scholarships and discounts for international students.
The tuition fee stated is the full cost of the programme.
* £650 writing up fee applicable in year 3 full-time and years 5 and 6 PT
** Includes MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-Registration) , MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-Registration) ,  MSc Dietetics (Pre-registration), MSc Diagnostic Radiography (Pre-Registration),  MSc Midwifery Studies (Pre-Registration) , PgDip Midwifery Studies(Pre-Registration), MSc Nursing Studies (various routes), MSc Nursing Studies (Adult) (Pre-Registration), MSc Nursing Studies (Child) (Pre-Registration), MSc Nursing Studies (Learning Disabilities) (Pre-Registration), MSc Nursing Studies (Mental Health) (Pre-Registration)
*** International fee for Pre Registration Health 2 year Masters is currently only for MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-Registration) , MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-Registration) and MSc Diagnostic Radiography (Pre-Registration).
MSc Midwifery Studies (Pre-Registration) currently not offered to International students.
If your course started on or after 1 August 2021 you will not be eligible for home fee status, undergraduate, postgraduate and further education financial support from Student Finance England unless you meet one of the criteria in the eligibility rules.
Find out more about support for EU students
Find out more about pre-sessional English course fees
If you are an international student funding your own studies, for the 2025-26 academic year you must pay a deposit of  £4,000 before receiving your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) which you need to apply for a Student Visa.
You can then either pay the remainder of your course fees either before you enrol or in instalments throughout the academic year.
Details of your deposit will be stated on your offer letter which applicants can access on their E-vision portal .
If you are applying for  a Pre-sessional English course the University requires full fees in advance.
If you are refused a visa, we refund your deposit.
More information on refunds.
If your visa is issued, the University keeps your deposit.
You need to provide  at least £1,136 per month, up to a maximum of 9 months (£10,224), for the duration of your programme.
You must also make sure that you have enough money to pay for your full programme fees.
You'll need to provide evidence that you have the following amount of money available to you:
AND
View the latest information maintenance amounts for Student Visas
You must pay a deposit of £4,000 before you enrol at the University.
The remaining balance must be paid at enrolment or international students can opt to pay in instalments.
For information about paying the remaining balance in accordance with the terms & conditions, plus information on instalments, view our Fees and Charges Regulations and pay in instalments webpages.
Your course fees are fixed at the same level for all the years you study on the same course.
As an international  you can pay fees in your own currency .
Your sponsor needs to confirm by letter that they are paying your fees before we can issue your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies.
We only accept letters from approved sponsors.
You must bring an original copy of your sponsorship letter when you arrive at the University to enrol.
We are offering an enhanced scholarship portfolio for new, eligible applicants in additional to scholarships offered in partnerships with external organisations such as the British Council, among others.
More information on international scholarships

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/docs/index.cfm:
Please select a directory from the drop down above to see the documents listed in it.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/pay_instalments.cfm:
Undergraduate students whose fees will be initially funded by a tuition fee loan provided by the Student Loan Company (SLC) will have their fees collected from the SLC as per their loan agreement.
For self-funding students on courses with a duration of one academic year or more, the University operates two options for payment of your annual tuition fees:
September/October 2025 enrolments
November/December 2025 enrolments
January/February 2026 enrolments
May 2026 enrolments
Dates for the postgraduate instalment option will be agreed in line with the postgraduate loan payment dates set by the SLC.
If the instalment payment plan dates differ from your SLC payment schedule, then instalment dates may be amended to coincide with the SLC loan payment dates.
For courses with a duration of less than one academic year or for students who have a financial sponsor, payment in full is required by the due date on the invoice.
International students (on campus) All new self-funded international students must pay a deposit of at least £4,000 before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies number (CAS) is issued.
The requirement for payment of a deposit is detailed in all conditional offer letters.
If you are applying for a six-month International Foundation course or a pre-sessional English course the University requires full fees in advance of enrolment.
Where a student has been awarded a scholarship which does not cover the tuition fee in full the deposit can be restricted to the value of the balance owing.
The University operates three options for payment of the tuition fees for new and continuing international students re-enrolling onto subsequent academic years of their course: Option 1: Payment in full by the invoice due date Option 2: Payment in three equal instalments (invoice total less deposit paid where applicable) Option 3: Payment in five equal instalments (invoice total less deposit paid where applicable) Three equal instalments: September/October 2025 enrolments 30 October 2025 30 December 2025 27 February 2026 November/December 2025 enrolments 30 December 2025 27 February 2026 29 April 2026 January/February 2026 enrolments 27 February 2026 29 April 2026 29 June 2026 March/April 2026 enrolments 29 April 2026 29 June 2026 30 August 2026 May 2026 enrolments 29 June 2026 30 August 2026 30 October 2026 Five equal instalments: September/October 2024 enrolments 31 October 2024 31 December 2024 31 January  2025 28 February 2025 31 March  2025 November 2024 enrolments 31 December 2024 28 February 2025 31 March  2025 30 April 2025 31 May  2025 January 2025 enrolments 28 February 2025 30 April 2025 31 May  2025 30 June 2025 31 July  2025 March  2025 enrolments 30 April 2025 30 June 2025 31 July  2025 30 August 2025 30 September  2025 May 2025 enrolments 30 June 2025 31 August 2025 30 September  2025 31 October 2025 30 November  2025 September/October 2025 enrolments 31 October 2025 31 December  2025 31 January  2026 28 February  2026 31 March  2026 November/December 2025 enrolments 31 December  2025 28 February  2026 31 March  2026 30 April 2026 31 May 2026 January/February 2026 enrolments 28 February  2026 30 April 2026 31 May 2026 30 June 2026 31 July 2026 March/April 2026 enrolments 30 April 2026 30 June 2026 31 July 2026 31 August 2026 30 September 2026 May 2026 enrolments 30 June 2026 31 August 2026 30 September 2026 31 October 2026 30 November 2026 How to set up an instalment plan Find out how to set up an instalment plan.
Financial Regulations
All new self-funded international students must pay a deposit of at least £4,000 before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies number (CAS) is issued.
The University operates three options for payment of the tuition fees for new and continuing international students re-enrolling onto subsequent academic years of their course:
March/April 2026 enrolments
September/October 2024 enrolments
November 2024 enrolments
January 2025 enrolments
March  2025 enrolments
May 2025 enrolments

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international:
The university's location is ideal for me; it’s in a town, so it is quieter compared to cities.
I enjoy the nature around Teesside.
Tan Huey En Joyce - BA (Hons) Fashion More about Tan Huey En Joyce

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/pg_howtoapply.cfm:
Whether you intend to study full-time or part-time, the application procedure is the same.
The normal deadline for applications to full-time taught degrees starting in September 2023 will be 31 July 2023.
Please note that some courses have different application deadlines - please check individual course pages for full details and contact the relevant school if you wish to apply after this date.
If you require feedback on your application or offer decision please contact the relevant school.
Contact details can be found on the relevant course page.
To discuss a programme before you apply, call the number given in the specific course entry.
It's an exciting, interesting and rewarding opportunity to explore a topic in real depth.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses:
Learn about your subject, learn about yourself and learn a whole lot more in between.
View the course list
Book now

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/living_studying.cfm:
Take a look at some of the many things you can do in Middlesbrough whilst studying at Teesside University.
Take a look at some of the many things you can do in the Tees Valley region whilst studying at Teesside University.
Follow our students as they take you to some of their favourite places and hidden gems in the area.
I love hanging out with friends in Yarm, catching up over a coffee or a few cocktails on a weekend.
Natalie
More information:
More about Natalie
I love the outdoors so it’s great living in Middlesbrough – kayaking, horse riding and surfing, or just different places for a nice walk.
Stephen
More about Stephen
There's never a dull moment in Middlesbrough – there’s always a crowd going to the match or for a famous Teesside parmo
Eddie
More about Eddie
I’m an international student and I’ve loved exploring everything the region has to offer – there’s so much to do.
Alya
More about Alya
From the working docks of the Tees Estuary to the area's vibrant towns and glorious countryside, this is a place where old and new, urban and rural, and culture and commerce converge.
Download CuriosiTees, our publication for those curious about exploring Middlesbrough and the region's hidden gems.
Download CuriosiTees

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/why_university.cfm:
University is for anyone who wants to learn something new and gain new opportunities.
Depending on what you want to do with your life, university could be a great way to get there.
You’re already here, giving it some thought, so it must be something you can see happening.
There are more than a million people studying in higher education in universities and colleges in the UK, and they study in different ways – full-time, part-time or while they're working – but you can guarantee they’re all having the time of their life.
Here’s our 10 top reasons.
And finally, it’s never too late – you don't necessarily have to be fresh out of school to be able to cash in on a student loan and go to university.
We have students from all walks of life who have found that it’s never ever too late to get educated.
Higher education is an investment in your future and an experience that can’t be rivalled.
So what are you waiting for?
Get yourself here and make the most of every opportunity – savour the moment because it goes very quickly.
Come to Teesside University and we’ll make sure you get the most out of your experience.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/find_the_right_course.cfm:
Many of our courses are accredited by the relevant professional bodies and many of our health courses allow you to subsequently apply for membership.
You need to ensure that your chosen course enables you to progress into your planned career - and be mindful that academic requirements for professions can vary between different countries.
You can tailor most of our courses by choosing from a range of optional modules - so you can explore the specific areas within your subject that most interest you.
If a course is described as 'subject to University approval' it is under development or going through quality assurance processes to test its academic rigour.
A one-year programme that combines English language with some subject-specific modules.
International Foundation Year (Health) International Foundation Year (Social Sciences and Law)
These are vocationally orientated qualifications validated by Edexcel.
You can often progress from one of these qualifications to study for a degree.
These work-related courses are designed in conjunction with employers to let you combine studying and working to improve your qualifications.
They include case studies and live briefs through relevant work-related learning.
Three years of study, sometimes called a bachelor's or first degree - or sometimes four years with a placement year.
Bachelor of Arts, BA (Hons) Bachelor of Engineering, BEng (Hons) Bachelor of Laws, LLB (Hons) Bachelor of Science, BSc (Hons)
A four-year programme that includes an integrated foundation year.
Bachelor of Engineering, BEng (Hons) – with Foundation Year Bachelor of Science, BSc (Hons) – with Foundation Year Bachelor of Arts, BA (Hons) – with Foundation Year
Combining work and study.
You gain technical knowledge and practical experience by combining on-the-job training with flexible study towards a higher education qualification, from the equivalent of a foundation degree to a full bachelor's or master's degree in some sectors.
A one-year, full-time course allowing you to top-up a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation
			Degree to an undergraduate degree.
Bachelor of Arts, BA (Hons)...
(Top-up) Bachelor of Engineering, BEng Tech (Hons)...(Top-up) Bachelor of Science, BSc (Hons)...
(Top-up) If you have a diploma, HNC, HND, Foundation Degree (or equivalent) you may be able to enter our degree in Year 2 or 3 of our degree programmes, based on your previous level of study and level of English.
Four-year full-time integrated programme with three years at undergraduate level and one year at master’s level that emphasises industry relevance.
Master of Computing, MComp (Hons) Master of Engineering, MEng (Hons)
Benefit from an integrated placement if you’re studying a programme within healthcare, education or social work.
Or opt for a placement year or a shortened placement with most degrees – business, computing, engineering, media, sport science, web and multimedia.
We have a large portfolio of accredited open learning programmes, serving the engineering and process industries worldwide.
We have created high-quality, stand-alone, open learning materials for 25 years.
So, if you work on an oil rig in the Caribbean or in pipeline construction in a desert, you can still study effectively at your own pace.
More about open learning

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/qualifications.cfm:
First degrees are full time for three years or four-year sandwich course with your third year on work placement.
On some courses a placement is optional, on others, compulsory.
Part-time undergraduate degrees take five years.
Work-based study may take longer.
A four year programme that includes an integrated foundation year.
We've developed these work related qualifications with employers to encourage talented people of all ages into higher education.
If you complete the course you may be able to join the final year of an honours degree.
One year to prepare for a relevant degree.
Higher and degree apprenticeships combine work and study.
Studied part-time over two or four years they offer technical knowledge and practical experience by combining on-the-job training with flexible study towards a higher education qualification, from the equivalent of a foundation degree to a full bachelor's or master's degree in some sectors.
HNDs and HNCs are vocationally oriented, validated by Edexcel.
A HND can be two years full time or three years part time.
HNCs are two years part time.
Many HND courses offer the opportunity to move on to a degree.
Some are taught at local colleges.
Integrated master's degrees are extended programmes of study which emphasise industrial relevance.
They are four year full-time courses with three years at undergraduate level (minimum 360 credits) and at least one year of study (minimum 120 credits) at master's level.
A one year programme that combines English language with some subject specific modules.
These courses are ideal for those needing a preparatory year of university study before joining a degree programme.
University certificates are made up of part-time modules.
There are several undergraduate types:
Part-time courses are made up of modules for which you receive credits.
Under the Credit Accumulation Modular Scheme (CAMS) you can accumulate them to count towards an award.
By accumulating points you may be able to change routes or transfer between institutions.
Please note If courses are described as 'subject to University approval' they are under development or going through quality assurance processes to test their academic rigour.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/ug_entryreq.cfm:
You may also have skills we can consider like work experience or vocational training.
Don't be discouraged if you can't meet the exact entry requirements - come and talk to us.
There are two types of offers - conditional and unconditional.
We make conditional offers to applicants who are currently studying qualifications.
Conditional offers are usually made in UCAS tariff points and may include specific subjects or grades you need for your chosen course and details are available on the relevant course page.
We make unconditional offers to applicants who have already achieved the qualifications needed to enter their chosen course, including specific subjects or grades required.
UCAS tariff calculator
For entry onto an undergraduate degree programme, you would normally need a pass in at least two A levels, or equivalent level 3 qualifications as a minimum.
The new level 3 T levels, offered from September 2020, will be considered for entry onto our courses.
There may be some course-specific requirements.
You may also need GCSE passes at grade 4 (or C) or above, or other level 2 qualifications.
These may be required in specific subjects, depending on your university course but please visit the relevant course page for more details, including any additional course requirements such as an interview, portfolio or audition.
Other level 2 qualifications may be accepted as alternatives.
Some courses ask for additional entry requirements because of the requirements of the associated profession.
Find your individual course requirements
Students currently studying a Foundation Degree or a Higher National Diploma may be considered for entry to the second or final year of a degree or a top-up degree.
It depends on subject content already covered in relation to the degree and on credits achieved.
For entry onto a Higher National Diploma (HND) programme, you would normally need a pass in at least one A level, or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
Entry for foundation degrees is based on your ability to succeed.
This can be demonstrated through having a range of level 3 qualifications (NVQ 3, BTEC Award, A level, T level) and may include appropriate training through work.
Degrees with an integrated foundation year are 4 or 5 years in length, depending on whether you undertake a placement year as well.
For entry onto an undergraduate degree programme with an integrated foundation year, you would normally need a pass in at least one A level, or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
T levels are new level 3 courses which are equivalent to 3 A levels.
These 2-year courses, which launched in September 2020, have been developed in collaboration with employers and businesses so that the content meets the needs of industry and prepares students for work, further training or study.
We welcome this new qualification and will consider it for entry onto our courses.
There may be some course-specific requirements for programmes regulated or accredited by professional, statutory and regulatory bodies (PSRBs), and some course exemptions.
Please refer to our course pages for further details.
Teesside University welcomes applicants with International Baccalaureate qualifications.
We accept both the completed International Diploma programme and individual IB Diploma Course elements that carry UCAS tariff points.
More information on the University's recognition of the International Baccalaureate
A short course at our Summer or Winter University could give you the first taster of what studying a degree course could be like.
More about Summer University More about Winter University
You can gain considerable knowledge from work, volunteering and life.
Under recognition of prior learning (RPL) you may be awarded credit for this which can be credited towards the course you want to study.
If you don't have conventional entry qualifications you may still be considered for admission through the RPL Admission to a Course process.
This includes a phone or video conversation with an academic member of staff where you have the opportunity to provide any additional information and evidence.
We accept many different international qualifications.
You should provide detailed information about your qualifications when you apply.
Visit our international country pages or contact internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk for advice.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/your_journey.cfm:
A helpful guide for your journey through Year 12 and Year 13 to university.
UCAS fairs – check which UCAS fairs are taking place near you and prepare some questions to ask university staff and students when you get there Research – request prospectuses, research courses in your subject of interest and try to attend taster sessions – at Teesside University we offer discovery days in most subject areas
Work experience – look to see if you need work experience to be accepted on to your course and, if so, contact local organisations offering volunteering or placement opportunities Open day visits – start to plan in universities’ open day dates Tees Valley UCAS fair – this is held in late April or early May at Teesside University
Case studies – get insight from those in the know by looking on our website for current student and graduate profiles
Teesside University open day – we offer an open day for Year 12s in June.
Choose the talks and tours you’re interested in, meet with staff and students, and get all the information you need about our courses, accommodation, the campus and facilities
Personal statement - start a first draft of your UCAS personal statement before you break up for summer
UCAS applications - applications can be submitted to UCAS from 1 September Time to focus - make a start on your UCAS application form and refine your personal statement.
Narrow down to five course and university options
Teesside University open days  - we have open days for Year 13s in October.
It’s an ideal time to use open days to select your firm and insurance universities
Teesside University open day - November is another option to come along to our campus.
Choose the talks and tours you’re interested in, meet with staff and students, and get all the information you need about our courses, accommodation, the campus and facilities.
Bring friends or family for their thoughts Time to hand in - submit your completed UCAS form to your college or sixth form
UCAS deadline  - the deadline for UCAS applications is 15 January Funding - make a start on your UCAS application form and refine your personal statement.
Narrow down to five course and university options.
UCAS Extra - UCAS Extra opens on 25 February.
You can use it if you haven’t received an offer from one of your five choices Receiving offers - you may start to receive course place offers.
If you receive an offer from Teesside University, you may be invited to an interview or applicant open day.
Both are a great way to meet us, tour our campus and see our excellent facilities
Accommodation deadline - the deadline to apply for a place in Teesside University halls to be guaranteed accommodation is 30 April.
You can do this if you’ve received a conditional or unconditional firm offer
Accept your place - you should have replied to all offers by the deadlines.
If UCAS doesn’t receive your reply it will decline the university offer on your behalf
University applications’ deadline - 30 June is the deadline for all university applications.
After this date you must contact us directly to enquire about applying
Accommodation - we let you know about your allocated hall and room if you are staying on campus
A-level results day - this is mid August.
Clearing - if you have your results but hold no offers, you can use UCAS Clearing to find alternative courses.
If you’ve met and exceeded the conditions of your conditional firm offer, you may be able to use Adjustment to find an alternative course.
Teesside University clearing fair - this is on campus on the Saturay after A level results day.
If you haven’t received the grades you were hoping for, come along and find out if we have anything available
Arrive at university - Teesside University Freshers’ week and the start of semester one

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/funding.cfm:
When thinking about going to university you will have two key costs to consider.
Firstly, the cost of tuition fees for your chosen course of study and secondly, the living costs you will need to budget for.
For each of these costs, financial support is available from Student Finance England (SFE) for every eligible student to access.
If you are an eligible full-time UK undergraduate student you can apply for a tuition fee loan to cover the full cost of your fees each year.
The tuition fee loan is repayable - but not until you’ve left university and your income is over the repayment threshold.
Full-time students can also apply for financial support for help with  living costs such as food, travel and accommodation.
This support is in the form of a repayable maintenance loan.
The amount of maintenance loan you can get depends on where you live, where you study and your household income.
If you are a student applying from Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland you can find out more about your entitlements here: Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Student Finance Calculator Repayments Student loans are different to other types of loan.
Below are the key facts about student loan repayments: you only start repaying your tuition fee and maintenance loans once you’ve left your course and your income is over  the threshold amount for your repayment plan the amount you repay each month is based on your income and not on how much you owe Your repayments automatically stop if either: you stop working your income goes below the threshold Funding for part-time students Eligible part-time students can apply to Student Finance England (SFE) for a tuition fee loan - this covers the cost of your course and a maintenance loan to help towards your living costs.
Tuition fee loan You can apply for a tuition fee loan for each year of your course.
A tuition fee loan is available for all eligible students to cover this cost and is paid to your university by SFE on your behalf.
Tuition fee loans are not income assessed so anyone who meets the eligibility criteria will be able to take out a loan each year to cover the cost of their fees.
The tuition fee loan is repayable in the future but not until you’ve left university and your income is over the repayment threshold.
Maintenance loan Part-time students can also apply for financial support to help towards their day-to-day living costs, such as rent or food.
The amount of maintenance loan you can receive depends on household income, course intensity and where you live while studying.
This loan is repayable in the future but not until you’ve finished your course and your income is over the repayment threshold.
Funding for health and social care students NHS Learning Support Fund NHS Training Grant NHS Parental Support NHS Travel and Dual Accommodation Expenses Placement Support Fund Funding for parents Childcare grant Parents' learning allowance Adult dependants' grant Funding for students with a learning difficulty, health problem or disability Disabled students' allowances Previous study If you have attended a higher education course before, this can have an impact on the funding you get for any course you want to do in the future.
Please contact a student adviser in Student Life for advice about your eligibility before starting a course.
Teesside University online learning Our students use a variety of ways to finance their study; some take advantage of our flexible pay-per-module scheme, others are funded by their employer.
If you're based in the UK, you may be eligible to apply for a tuition fee loan.
More about online learning funding Armed Forces support We welcome applications from those in the armed forces and accept enhanced learning credits (ELC) funding for most of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
The Ministry of Defence’s Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) Scheme promotes lifelong learning amongst members of the Armed Forces.
Providing financial support each year, over three years, the scheme enables higher-level learning of a nationally recognised qualification at Level 3 or above (or approved international equivalent) with an approved learning provider.
More about the Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme Fees and funding enquiries Please contact  Student Life.
Student Finance Calculator
Student loans are different to other types of loan.
Below are the key facts about student loan repayments:
Your repayments automatically stop if either:
Eligible part-time students can apply to Student Finance England (SFE) for a tuition fee loan - this covers the cost of your course and a maintenance loan to help towards your living costs.
You can apply for a tuition fee loan for each year of your course.
Part-time students can also apply for financial support to help towards their day-to-day living costs, such as rent or food.
If you have attended a higher education course before, this can have an impact on the funding you get for any course you want to do in the future.
Our students use a variety of ways to finance their study; some take advantage of our flexible pay-per-module scheme, others are funded by their employer.
More about online learning funding
We welcome applications from those in the armed forces and accept enhanced learning credits (ELC) funding for most of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
More about the Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/scholarships.cfm:
We believe that everyone with the talent to succeed should have access to higher education.
That's why we offer a range of scholarships and bursaries to help you on your way – and you don’t have to pay them back.
We understand how important financial support is for our students, so you’ll find a variety of scholarships available, some of monetary value and some others that provide equipment and learning resources to support your studies.
Many are automatically awarded, you will receive them automatically without having to submit an application, if you're eligible.
Others require an application to assess your eligibility.
Subject scholarships Teesside Sport scholarships
You may be eligible for £10,000 if you are starting any three year undergraduate degree, achieve AAB and are facing financial difficulty.
Brittan Scholarship
You may be eligible for £2,000 if you are a care leaver and studying full-time.
Care Leaver Bursary
You may be eligible to have your course fees paid and receive a contribution to other study costs if you are currently seeking asylum or if you are dependent on someone seeking asylum in the UK.
Teesside Sanctuary Award
Loan an Apple iPad with Office 365 and a compatible keyboard, plus £100 credit each academic year to buy books and other learning resources.
Teesside University Advance
We offer a generous funding package for many of our courses.
They’re awarded for a number of reasons including academic achievement or to support those from underrepresented groups in higher education.
You may be eligible for £7,500 if you are studying film and TV production and facing financial difficulty.
More about our Franc Roddam Scholarship
You may be eligible for £2,500 to support your cost of living and provide access to additional or extra-curricular activities, if you are studying film and TV production, fine art or photography, and are facing financial difficulty.
More about our Marston Scholarship
You may be eligible for £6,000 if you study accounting and finance, and you have been educated at a Tees Valley school or college for at least three years.
More about our Hill Scholarship
You may be eligible for £2,500 if you study a course within our Business School and can demonstrate how you would use the scholarship to support career-enhancing activities, such as an internship or placement.
More about our The Atherton Scholarship
You may be eligible for £5,000 if you study a computing, games development or games programming course, or a course within our Business School and are from a TS postcode.
More about our The Teesside Charity Scholarship
You may be eligible for £2,000 towards your accommodation fees if you live outside the TS postcode and are in your first year of study on a games or animation course.
More about our Accommodation Award for Games and Animation students
You may be eligible for £6,000 if you study a computing, games development or games programming course, have a TS postcode and are facing financial difficulty.
More about our Dean Benson Scholarship
You may be eligible for £3,000 if you study selected computing or science courses, live within the Tees Valley, Richmond or Whitby and are facing financial difficulty.
More about our Cleveland Scientific Institution Scholarship
You may be eligible for £2,000 if you study an engineering course, have lived in the Tees Valley for over two years and are facing financial difficulty.
More about our Dr Ken Home Scholarship
You may be eligible for £27,000 if you are a high achieving student studying energy engineering.
More about our Kellas Midstream Scholarship
You may be eligible for £6,000 or £8,000 if you study engineering (£6,000 for BEng (Hons) courses and £8,000 for MEng (Hons) courses).
More about our Women in Engineering Scholarship
You may be eligible for £6,000 if you study LLB (Hons) Law or LLB (Hons) Law, Criminology and Criminal Justice and are from a North East household.
More about our Jacksons Law Scholarship
If you’re a high-performing athlete at international level or have exceptional international potential, or you're a keen footballer, you may be eligible for one of our sports scholarships.
You may be eligible for £1,200 if you are a footballer and identify as a woman.
Beth Mead Scholarship
You may be eligible for £4,500 if you study with us and enrol on our Sports Performance Pathway.
George Friend Scholarship
You may be eligible for an individually-tailored sport support package if you are a talented athlete competing at a high level, while studying for a degree with us.
Performance Sport Scholarship
Celebrating the success and impact of Teesside University scholarships.
Offers of scholarships and awards offered by Teesside University are subject to the following conditions:
The University reserves the right to cancel, withdraw or limit an award or scholarship if you don't meet the above conditions or if you withdraw from or change your course part way (such as transfer to a degree apprenticeship) through your studies.
Please note, unless otherwise stated, these offers can't be used in conjunction with any other fee reduction scheme or discount offer.
The University reserves the right to withdraw, amend the amount of any reduction or amend the qualifying criteria at any time.
This doesn't affect your statutory rights.
Payment(s) are made  in the January after you have been allocated your award.
If your award  provides  support over the duration of your course, subsequent payments are made at  the start of each academic year.
Please note that these offers are for full-time UK students only.
Scholarships for non-UK students

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/accommodation:
Whatever your budget or need, we have accommodation for you.
Whether you want a halls experience, your own en-suite or a shared house, we have a suitable place for you.
900 beds - all within approximately 5 minutes' walk
whatever your budget
but longer if you need it
24 hour support
throughout your time at University
for student contents
speed of up to 1GB
facilities on-site
on-site
To find out more about staying in university accommodation next year, email accommodation@tees.ac.uk
The accommodation service has signed up for an approved code of practice for the management of our residencies, which is overseen by Universities UK (UUK) and the Standing Conference of Principles.
Accommodation UUK Code of Practice

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/students_union.cfm:
Teesside University Students' Union is led by you, for you.
It provides you with activities, advice, events, support and much more.
We're here to help you with everything you need during your time at Teesside University.
We're really proud of our gold accredited premises in the Best Bar None awards , and we've been rated number one in the world by international students in 2022.
Choose from so many social spaces - from The Terrace with a wide range of food, drinks and big screen sport, to The Hub for music events, freshers fairs and club nights.
We also have the Love It Lounge and SU Studio study spaces for you.
There's space whether you're working on assignments or dancing into the weekend.
Teesside University Students' Union provides you with free, independent support from qualified advisers, for some of your student life issues - whether it's about accommodation or your course.
We're always here to help or put you in touch with somebody who can.
School and course reps are on hand to provide support and guidance to help make your experience studying at Teesside University as smooth as possible.
Connect with your representatives
Societies, which are run by the Students' Union, are a great way for you to get more from your time at university, develop new skills, boost your mental health and meet new people.
There is an ever-widening range of groups available, from general interests and hobbies, academic themes, faiths, and religions, and they are all free to join.
Check out the societies on offer
Get sandwiches, drinks, snacks, stationery and course-related materials, six days a week, all at student-friendly prices.
The TOTUM app is free to download and provides great discounts and offers on food, drink, cinema, fashion, music and more.
Available for just Â£14.99 for one year, or Â£24.99 for two years.
A physical card is also available.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/student_support.cfm:
If you need advice and guidance you can find us in Student Life.
Our services include help on a range of issues from applications, admissions and finance to careers, disability support and counselling.
If you are coming to university for the first time, the NHS recommends that you have a vaccination to prevent meningitis and septicaemia.
Your GP may have discussed this with you already, but if not and you would like some advice, local GP practices will be present at Welcome Weekend.
You can register as a new patient or ask them about the vaccine.
NHS information about the vaccine .
You can also find out more about meningitis at meningitisnow.org .
The careers service offers an impartial service to help you choose your future career, search for a job or voluntary opportunity, give you advice on your applications and tackling interviews.
Our careers website has a whole host of resources and we provide advice by email and drop-in sessions as well as confidential guidance interviews.
We provide a service to students who are visually impaired, hearing impaired, wheelchair users or people with mobility difficulties, medical conditions, autism, mental health services users, people with specific learning difficulties (for example, dyslexia) and more.
Please get in touch as soon as possible to let us know about any support that you may need.
More about our disability support
Our confidential counselling service can support you through any personal or academic difficulties and develop constructive ways forward.
We value the diversity of our students and recognise that being able to practice your faith is an important part of the student experience.
You can get impartial advice and support with accommodation and academic issues.
There's also many opportunities to continue a hobby or find a new one through student communities and societies.
More about the Students' Union.
Teesside University embraces diversity and actively opposes prejudice and is committed to communicating openly, honestly and respectfully at all times.
We are committed to sexual orientation equality and value the rich diversity in our University community.
More about sexual orientation equality
We are committed to gender identity equality and value the rich diversity in our University community.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/sport:
Teesside Sport
Teesside Sport is inclusive.
Open to all students, we offer a wide range of services and programmes from participation and taster sessions, gym and sports facilities, support for new joiners to a sports club, and advice and guidance for campus leagues competitions right up to specific support for performance athletes competing at a high level.
We're on board to support a healthier, happier you.
The sporting achievements of students across the University have been recognised at Teesside Sport's annual awards dinner.
Close collaborations with elite soccer clubs in the United States are giving staff and students at Teesside University the opportunity to work alongside professional footballers supporting their training and development.
After discovering his passion for cheerleading while studying at Teesside University, Lewis Pennicott has been named a World Cheerleading Champion.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/student_content_creators.cfm:
From campus events to everyday experiences, they're here to show you what student life is really like.
Meet the students View the students' work
Select a student to read more.
BSc (Hons) Marketing
My favourite thing about being a student here is the opportunities on offer.
BA (Hons) Journalism
The community is so supportive, and I’ve made friends for life here.
BA (Hons) Film and TV Production
I chose Teesside University for its creative environment and student support.
The University has boosted my confidence and developed my entrepreneurial skills.
MSc Digital Marketing
I’ve met so many interesting people from diverse backgrounds.
Video
#university #unilife #college
Millie & Sophie
Chloe
Millie
Sophie
Blog
What got me through exam season
Tracy
From someone who’s been there
‘I chose Teesside University because of the wide range of courses, and because I wanted to stay close to home.
The campus is lively and diverse.
My favourite spot on campus is the Library – there is so much workspace!
I decided to study marketing because of the variety of modules, and the opportunity to do volunteering and a placement as part of my degree.
The University has helped me improve my academic writing and increased my confidence.’
‘I chose Teesside University because it’s close to home, offers excellent mental and physical health support and provides great opportunities for professional and personal growth.
The campus culture is vibrant, friendly and inclusive.
My favourite spot on campus is Student Life.
I decided to study journalism because I’ve always had a passion for writing.
The course has improved my confidence, pushed my boundaries and opened doors to new opportunities.
The community is so supportive, and I’ve made friends for life here.’
‘I chose Teesside University for its creative environment and student support.
My favourite thing about being a student here is the people.
My tutors are friendly and supportive.
The campus is welcoming, diverse and full of opportunities.
My favourite place is the gym.
I decided to study film and TV because I love storytelling.
The University and my course have helped me become more confident, especially with English speaking.’
Shenyan
‘I applied through Clearing to study at Teesside University because I wanted to stay close to home and I love the area.
My favourite thing about being a student here is the people and friends that I’ve made.
I’m also part of the netball team which I really enjoy.
The campus is relaxed, welcoming, diverse and friendly.
My favourite spot on campus is the Library.
I decided to study marketing as the course offered the opportunity to work with live clients and I was interested in psychology in business.
I’ve also enjoyed the practical learning on my course.
The University has boosted my confidence and developed my entrepreneurial skills.’
‘I chose Teesside University because of its diverse student community and the affordability of living in the area, making it an inclusive and budget-friendly place to study.
My favourite thing about being a student here is the student support available.
There’s something for everyone on campus!
My favourite spot is Student Life.
I decided to pursue a master’s in digital marketing to help further my career.’

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/vibe_podcast.cfm:
The Vibe is a series of podcasts from Teesside University.
We'll bring you expert insight on university subjects, topical issues, university news and stories from our community including students, alumni and staff.
We take an informative and inspirational approach with the aim of giving career inspiration, advice on where to go around campus, the application and Clearing process, things to do in Teesside, tips on helping students
More podcast providers are listed on our Podbean page: Podbean

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/timetables.cfm:
If you're a student enrolling on a full-time course, your timetabled learning activities could be scheduled for any time from Monday to Friday between 9.00am and 6.00pm.
Your contact time may be concentrated over a couple of days or spread throughout the week.
As a full-time student, you are expected to prioritise your week around your studies and plan non-university related activities once you've received your timetable.
We do our best to ensure you aren't travelling in for a single session or have long gaps between activities - however, this isn't always possible because of the complexities of timetabling within a large university.
Teesside University provides excellent facilities to support you if you have free time between learning activities - you can use the Library, informal learning spaces, open access PC labs and the Student's Union.
If you are a part-time student, you aren't expected to prioritise your week around your studies to the same extent but you should be familiar with your study days before making other plans.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/studentfutures/voluntees:
Volun-tees aims to support staff, students and recent graduates from Teesside University to engage in volunteering activities both within the local community or on University-led volunteering programmes.
Volun-tees encourages volunteers to develop their employability skills through volunteering and helps develop a wider range of opportunities with voluntary/community organisations.
You can find out all the information you need to know by downloading a copy of the welcome guide.
Volun-tees provides a FREE service to local and national voluntary organisations
Currently there are no events
Kayleigh Dunningan It is my role to lead on the Community element of the Recovery Connections service; leading a team of staff, volunteers and Recovery Ambassadors we attempt to break down the stigma closely associated with addiction and show that recovery is possible and positive.
I work in the Community most of the time doing awareness events and activities
Read case study
Rod Lyall, Director of The Bungalow Partnership: .
My role involves the overall management of the organisation, monitoring of case referrals, recruitment, mentoring and training of volunteers, mentoring for students and liaising with schools and outside agencies.
David Gee, Boro Angels chairman .
We patrol the streets of Middlesbrough, mainly on Saturday nights and Sunday mornings, assisting anyone who may be in need of a helping hand, whether it be a bottle of water, chat, first aid or contacting the emergency services.
Sanctuary Supported Living Stockton Carers Service is part of the Sanctuary Group.
The service we provide is for adult carers over the age of 18 who provide unpaid care to an adult over the age of 18 who resides in the Stockton area.
My name is Emily and I am the Young Person's Co-ordinator for Fixers, an award winning innovative multi-media charity working across the UK on social action projects with 16 to 25 year olds.
I saw that Middlesbrough and Stockton Mind were advertising for the role of Appropriate Adult and I had also read about other Appropriate Adults experiences of volunteering with Mind through Volun-tees so decided to apply.
Read Carley's case study
I volunteer with Enactus Teesside which is part of Enactus UK.
There's a multitude of reasons as to why I decided to volunteer for this organisation.
It's a fantastic opportunity to make an impact on your local communities through helping in areas your passionate about, in addition to gaining valuable experience that can be transposed to the workplace upon graduation of university.
Read Luke's case study
Since 2017 I have volunteered on Wednesdays and Fridays in year 2, 3 and 4 at Ingleby Mill Primary School and for additional experience, I volunteered in Ayresome Primary in year five and six.
I assist the teachers with intervention work, and I support pupils with their learning.Friday lunchtimes I run a gardening club replanting the beds in the year three and four calm garden.
Read Emma's case study

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/minisites/student_ambassadors:
Join our team of inspirational student ambassadors who actively promote Higher Education at Teesside University on and off campus, and get paid for your efforts.
Guide secondary school pupils around campus and help them develop self-confidence, team work and presentation skills.
Help visitors and their friends and family find out more about Teesside University.
Duties include meeting and greeting prospective students, delivering campus and accommodation tours and ensuring that all visitors have a positive experience.
An event where groups from local colleges and sixth forms have the opportunity to speak to a range of higher education institutions at Teesside University.
Roles on the day include meeting and greeting, helping visitors get around campus and keeping the event running.
There is such a great atmosphere on campus with loads of opportunities across the University to meet new people from around the world.
There are also so many new, modern facilities to help you get the best from your studies.
It’s a great place to study and work.
Priya Ahmed, PhD Health Psychology

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/advance.cfm:
Apple iPad, keyboard and textbook credit
2025-26 academic year
Unlimited awards available
If you are a part-time student in classes alongside full-time students or direct into Year 3, you are eligible to borrow an iPad and keyboard on a semester-by-semester basis throughout your studies.
This gives you access to the same device and toolkit as a full-time student throughout your time here.
Direct entrants on to Year 3 are eligible for £100 credit to purchase learning resources from the Advance online portal, subject to eligibility criteria.
Please refer to the terms and conditions for full details.
The iPad is enhanced by our Future Facing Learning toolkit, which includes a collection of software apps.
The toolkit is used inside and outside the classroom to support you in preparing for professional life.
Microsoft Office 365 is at the heart of the toolkit – particularly Microsoft Teams which is a collaborative working space that allows you to develop skills that will benefit your career – teamwork, project management, digital literacy.
Some of the apps, such as Socrative and Padlet, are specifically designed to help you actively engage in the learning experience, allowing you to provide feedback and ask questions in an online environment.
You also have access to MyTU, the Teesside University student portal which provides vital information on your studies - email, calendar, campus map, PC finder, library loans, print credit - and our virtual learning environment, Blackboard, for your course materials.
All apps within the toolkit can also be used on other devices both on and off campus
Our academic staff have taken part in our Future Facing Learning digital development programme – supporting them to embed the toolkit within their learning and teaching.
Here’s how this will benefit you:
The Apple iPad has customisable features to benefit all users.
This includes the ability to change the display settings and customise how you can interact with your Apple iPad.
The Microsoft Word app can read aloud your documents and allows you to easily change text size and page colour to suit your reading needs.
We provide you plenty of support, if you need it, so that you can make the most of your iPad and learning toolkit.
We offer training sessions during your induction, drop-in sessions, a dedicated help desk and online resources.
We are keen for you to make the most of the technology available to enhance your learning.
Microsoft has supported the development of the Future Facing Learning programme – many of our academics have been awarded Microsoft Innovative Educator and Microsoft Innovative Educator Expert status.
This formal accreditation means that they are recognised as part of an international community of educators who are developing innovative practice in using Microsoft technologies in education.
Students studying onsite at our Middlesbrough or Darlington campuses, benefit from access to the full suite of Adobe Creative Cloud apps and services to use across all your devices – along with training and support – so you can produce, collaborate and share your work from anywhere, anytime.
Teesside University is Europe’s first Adobe Creative Campus, recognising the importance of building digital literacy capabilities across all curriculum areas and courses as part of our Future Facing Learning initiative.
More about our Adobe Creative Campus
To be eligible for Teesside University Advance, you can be either a home or international student and must:
The University reserves the right to extend or withdraw the scheme at its discretion.
It’s not available to students studying:
You don't need to apply – you are given your Advance package on campus when you enrol on your course.
Advance Scheme (Student iPads and Online Bookstore) Terms and Conditions 2025-26 Advance Scheme (Student iPads) Terms and Conditions 2024-25 Advance Scheme Loan Student iPads Terms and Conditions
View our other scholarships and awards

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/fulltime/adobe_creative_campus.cfm:
At Teesside we believe that innovation powers our steps.
As an Adobe Creative Campus, we’re part of a select group of colleges and universities that are driving the future of digital literacy within the global higher education community.
We recognise the value of teaching creative and digital communication skills, and we actively focus on them to help you succeed in the classroom and gain an edge in today’s competitive workplace.
As well as making industry-leading Adobe Creative Cloud tools and services available to you, we collaborate with other Adobe Creative Campuses to share ideas and innovations that expand digital literacy and help ensure your future success.
We've teamed up with Adobe to give you access to a suite of 20+ world-class, industry-standard creative apps including Photoshop and InDesign – enabling you to supercharge your creative, communication and collaboration skills whatever your subject discipline.
Get the edge with Adobe Creative Cloud, a collection of industry-leading creative apps Developing better communication, collaboration and creative skills helps you get the edge now, and it also means you are future proofing yourself too.
Developing better communication, collaboration and creative skills helps you get the edge now, and it also means you are future proofing yourself too.
You also get access to over 6,400 free photos, illustrations, and videos – all there to help you create stand out content and give you the edge.
You also have access to Adobe Firefly , an AI image generator allowing you to create images from text.
Read about how our staff are embracing Adobe technology to enhance their teaching and improve the overall student experience.
Develop future-ready skills to prepare you for today’s workplace including:
Learning these skills now means that you will future proof yourself for the workplace and unlock opportunities that give you the freedom to become the best you.
Improve your photography, make videos, create websites and social posts, design graphics or apps and even create your own brand.
You can create a video essay with Premiere Pro or draw with Fresco.
The apps are seamless across desktop and mobile so you can create wherever you are.
Better digital skills better equip you for whatever opportunities you’re working on, whether they’re for your career or running a passion project.
Having a wide range of future-ready skills will help you to succeed.
Whether you’re a Creative Cloud beginner, an expert or in-between, you can find a range of tutorials at your level.
Plus, free templates to get you started and inspiration to keep your creativity flowing.
Adobe Creative Cloud

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses:
When you study a postgraduate course you step up to the next level - a challenge that will change the way you think and work.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/conversion_masters.cfm:
Are you thinking about a career change but don't know how to get started?
Perhaps you've reached the end of your academic journey, but your area of expertise no longer excites you?
Our broad range of postgraduate conversion courses could help you on your new path.
Irrespective of what subject you studied for your undergraduate degree or if you have been out of education for a while, these postgraduate courses are an opportunity for you to gain the additional knowledge and skills that you need to change direction or pursue a new career.
The variety of new skills and expertise you gain could allow you to improve your job prospects and increase your chance of securing work in a different field or gain that promotion in a new area.
A conversion course is right for you if you have decided that your degree area is not the field you want to work in and you need to develop expertise and knowledge in an alternative field to help you to pursue your chosen career.
If you have developed an interest in a new subject which you want to explore further and potentially embark on an academic career researching in a new field, a conversion course is your way in.
The courses listed below accept applications from graduates with an undergraduate degree in a wide range of disciplines.
Other eligibility criteria may apply, see course entry requirements.
Artificial intelligence (AI) enables a digital computer or computer-controlled robot to learn, reason, discover meaning and perform tasks commonly associated with intelligent beings.
AI applications include gaming, medical diagnosis, computer search engines, and voice or handwriting recognition.
Data scientists are responsible for the handling of raw data, analysing it, identifying patterns and presenting insights in a manner that is useful for forecasting and predicting business problems.
The data science field uses mathematics, statistics, machine learning, a range of computer science disciplines and a common toolset such as Python, SQL, and R.
If you’re seeking to pursue a career in digital business, e-commerce, digital marketing and business operations, then this digital business management course is for you.
Our MSc Digital Marketing gives you the skills and knowledge required to be successful in a range of digital marketing roles including social media, business marketing strategy, digital marketing communications, automation, content management and curation, and measurement and analysis.
Master digital media and communication with our advanced course.
The MA Education develops your academic and professional skills and knowledge in an area of education that will help your future career.
You develop a range of advanced research skills appropriate to postgraduate study and professional practice that will enable you to critically evaluate existing work and design research to further knowledge within education
FinTech (financial technology) is an evolving technology which provides innovation and efficiency in the financial services.
FinTech includes distributed ledger technology also known as the blockchain, big data and business intelligence.
Developed adhering to TV architect George Clarke’s MOBIE modular building concept and advanced home construction principles, this course is designed to revolutionise the building and construction of houses and homes.
Organisations are only as good as the people who work within them.
If you want to take a central role in shaping organisational culture, then this course is for you.
If you want to build your knowledge and experience of international business and strategic management for your career as a future business manager, then this international management course is for you.
This programme equips you with a comprehensive range of skills and knowledge to prepare you for a successful career in business and finance within a global context.
If you want to build your knowledge and experience of international business and human resource management (HRM) for your career as a future business leader, then this course is for you.
You gain a grounding in the two disciplines of management and marketing in an international context.
And develop an understanding of the global influences on business and marketing, together with the ability to analyse marketing management decisions in an international setting.
If you want to study a general project management master’s degree with an IT flavour, this is the course for you.
It offers a range of project management skills useful in many subject areas, plus skills that are particularly useful in IT project management.
You also study IT-related management skills within information systems and e-commerce.
This programme provides clear links between theory and international business practice and places discussion of relevant management techniques and themes in the context of the international stage.
You address contemporary public health challenges and social health issues.
Explore localised and global health problems, while analysing the political and environmental determinants which create these epidemiological and social health dilemmas.
Master the art of strategic public relations with our course.
This course is a two year fast-track route into a professional career in occupational therapy for those who already hold a degree in any subject.
This course is ideal if you are intending to pursue a management career in the oil and gas industry, or if you are already working in the sector and would like to develop management skills and knowledge at master’s level.
Graduates from a range of technical, non-technical and commercial backgrounds are eligible to apply.
Forge a specialism and career as you explore artistic, documentary, commercial and socially engaged photography at an advanced level of technical and conceptual creativity.
Project management processes are about implementing methodologies, knowledge, skills and techniques to successfully accomplish projects in an efficient and effective manner.
This course develops these competencies required by project managers in the modern engineering, IT, computing, digital, manufacturing, construction, telecom, process, oil and gas industries.
Our MSc Psychology is designed to enable graduates from disciplines other than psychology to develop subject-specific knowledge and the practical and professional skills related to the discipline as well as further developing general transferable cognitive, intellectual and academic skills.
This course leads to a professional qualification allowing you to apply for registration with Social Work England to work as a social worker in the United Kingdom and in other parts of the world.
You gain the skills and knowledge to meet the challenges and developments in the social work environment, equipped to undertake any role suitable for a newly-qualified social worker.
Our postgraduate conversion courses in nursing require 500 hours clinical experience in addition to an undergraduate degree in any subject.
As an adult nurse you are an important member of a multi-professional team, working in partnership with families and carers of those experiencing acute and long-term physical illness and/or disabilities.
Children’s nursing involves the care of premature babies, infants, children, young people and their families.
As a children’s nurse you are an important member of a multi-professional team, working in partnership with parents and carers, healthy children and those experiencing acute and long-term physical and mental illness and/or disabilities.
As a learning disabilities nurse you are an important member of a multi-professional team working in partnership with people with a learning disability and/or autism, family, relatives and carers with a range of complex needs.
Mental health nursing involves the care of people experiencing mental health problems and their families.
As a mental health nurse you become an important member of a multi-professional team working in partnership with adults and children experiencing mental health problems, and their families and carers with a range of complex needs.
If you want to find out more book a place on our open day or drop us a message.
06 September: Postgraduate open day
15 October: Postgraduate open day
postgraduate@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/pg_study.cfm:
We offer two main types of postgraduate courses - taught courses and research degrees.
Here we explain what you study - and how and what you'll learn.
We emphasise projects and assignments which are relevant to work, particularly if you work with an industrial or commercial partner.
Format - our taught postgraduate courses normally involve a formal structure of lectures, seminars, lab work (if relevant), projects and a dissertation.
You cover more advanced aspects of subjects studied at undergraduate level.
You receive credits for each module you pass.
Master's degrees often include intermediate awards such as a postgraduate certificate (60 credits) and a postgraduate diploma (120 credits).
For a full master's degree award, you need to successfully complete 180 credits - this includes the core element of advanced independent work, such as a research project or dissertation.
Types of course - we offer a number of full- and part-time taught postgraduate courses including:
If you need more information about a course, call the relevant admissions enquiries number.
Course length - a full-time master's degree is normally completed  within one year.
You will also need to do private study throughout the course.
A  part-time master's degree is typically completed within  two years -  but can be extended.
Please check the exact course  dates with the relevant School or Student Learning & Academic Registry before applying.
Doctorates are usually completed  within three years.
You can find the length of each course within its entry.
Courses  usually start in September.
Assessment methods vary for each course.
We place more emphasis on assignments, essays, case studies and project work and less on formal exams.
The final part of a master's and doctorate is usually an advanced independent dissertation or project.
Your programme of supervised research can lead to a master of philosophy (MPhil) or doctor of philosophy (PhD) in a range of disciplines.
Research degrees involve supervised individual investigation of a subject area culminating in a thesis.
Full-time study is about 35 hours a week on research, part-time around 12.
More about research degrees
Course length - full-time research degrees are  usually completed within 24 or 48 months.
As a research student you are expected to spend about 35 hours a week on your studies which includes going to your induction and developing research skills.
Studying part time - you can study a wide range of postgraduate courses part time.
Some are available full and part time - this is indicated within each course entry.
Others are only run on a part-time basis.
Find out more about our postgraduate qualifications and assessment regulations Assessment Regulations Framework

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/pg_entryreq.cfm:
We give equal consideration to the full range of academic and vocational qualifications - if you're unsure don't hesitate to call the admissions tutors - the number is on the course page.
For entry to postgraduate certificates (PgCert), postgraduate diplomas (PgDip) or a master's degree you normally need one of the following: a good honours degree (at least a 2.2) in a subject related to the field of study a post-experience or professional qualification equivalent qualifications (including international qualifications).
Apply online UK and EU applicants can apply for many postgraduate courses online.
Just use the 'Apply Online' link on the course details page.
If the link is missing contact: Finance on 01642 384228 E: records@tees.ac.uk University application forms Entry requirements for research degrees See the research degrees entry requirements English language requirements See the English language requirements Recognition of prior learning You can gain considerable knowlege from work, volunteering and life.
Under recognition of prior learning (RPL) you may be awarded credit for this which which can be credited towards the course you want to study.
Find out more about RPL
UK and EU applicants can apply for many postgraduate courses online.
If the link is missing contact: Finance on 01642 384228 E: records@tees.ac.uk
University application forms
See the research degrees entry requirements
See the English language requirements
You can gain considerable knowlege from work, volunteering and life.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/postgraduate_research_degrees.cfm:
Further your academic studies with a postgraduate research degree.
Be at the forefront of change, find solutions to problems and make a difference to individuals, organisations and society.
Teesside University delivers research that addresses the socio-economic and environmental challenges faced by our region and beyond.
Minimum entry requirements
2:1 or above
honours degree

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/pg_funding.cfm:
Government loans of up to £12,858 are available for master's degrees in all subjects, including taught and research programmes or courses.
These loans are available for full-time, part-time and distance learning courses.
If you're an eligible student starting a master’s degree course on or after 1 August 2025, you can apply for a master’s loan of up to £12,858 as a contribution towards your course and living costs.
If you're studying for 2, 3 or 4 academic years, the loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
If your study runs into another academic year (a 12-month period from when you start) your loan is divided in the subsequent year evenly over the additional months, for example if you are on a 16 month course, four months fall within a second academic year, so you receive 50% of the loan in year 1 and 50% of the loan in the final four months.
Your master's loan is paid directly to you.
Unlike your student loan for your undergraduate degree, you’ll need to pay Teesside University directly for your tuition fees.
The rest of your loan can be used to cover living and study costs.
gov.uk/masters-loan
If you're an eligible student starting a doctoral degree course on or after 1 August 2025, you can apply for a doctoral loan of up to £30,301 for the duration of your course as a contribution towards the cost of your course and living costs.
You can apply for the loan in any year of your course but you might not get the full amount if you apply after your first year.
Loan amounts subject to government verification .
gov.uk/doctoral-loan
If you're based in the UK, you may be eligible to apply for  a postgraduate student loan.
Some research projects at the University, which may be carried out as the basis of research degrees, are offered with partial or complete funding to cover fees and/or living costs.
NHS funding is available for various masters courses with bursaries for pre-registration programmes in nursing, midwifery and various allied health professions.
More about NHS funding
You may also be entitled to an NHS social work bursary in Year 1 and 2 of the MA Social Work Studies course.
More about social work bursaries
You may be eligible for a bursary or scholarship when you are training to teach in certain subjects and if your course isn't salaried.
More about teaching training funding
You may be funded by your employer to cover all or part of course fees.
You must provide a letter confirming this or you will be invoiced for your fees.
These may include:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/postgrad/pg_scholarships.cfm:
We can tell you the price of a postgraduate degree – but that's not the same as its value.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries to help you on your way – and you don’t have to pay them back.
Subject scholarships Research funding
Academic Excellence Award
Alumni Loyalty Discount
You may be eligible for £3,500 if you studied your first degree at Teesside University and progress to study a postgraduate programme at the University’s Social Sciences, Humanities & Law or Teesside University International Business School.
More about our Sir Keith Skeoch Postgraduate Scholarship
You may be eligible for £10,000 if you are looking to develop skills in AI or data science, regardless of your first degree subject area, and you belong to one of the listed underrepresented groups.
More about our AI and Data Science Scholarship
You may be eligible for £12,000 if you have accepted an offer of a place on an eligible MSc course relating to sustainability and clean energy.
More about our Kellas Midstream Postgraduate MSc Clean Energy Scholarship
We offer a range of fully-funded postgraduate research projects, awards and studentships.
Funded research opportunities
Any prospective doctoral student wishing to study at a UK research organisation, including prospective international students, can apply for a UKRI studentship.
These awards comprise full tuition fees and a stipend to cover living expenses at UKRI rates.
Research Council Doctoral Training Partnership Studentships
These are fully funded research opportunities which are offered on a competitive basis, and which cover all fees associated with PhD study, together with a three year stipend at UKRI rates.
University Research Studentships

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/business.cfm:
Be ambitious and join a growing community of future thinking, ideas generating students and graduates using enterprise and entrepreneurship to develop the skills of tomorrow, today.
The Enterprise Team support the development of student and graduate businesses as well a broader range of enterprise and entrepreneurial activities to support the creation of an enterprise culture on campus, and help students develop enterprise and employability skills through initiatives such as Global Entrepreneurship Week.
More about The Enterprise Team

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/pgopendays:
Explore our courses, tour our vibrant campus and world-class facilities, and see how we can help you take the next step toward your career goals.
Why come to an open day
You need to do your research when considering where to study for your postgraduate degree.
We love it here (obviously), but it's important you check this out for yourself.
Get insights about the courses you're interested in and the careers they can lead to.
Explore our range of postgraduate conversion courses, perfect for students considering a change of career, and chat to us about your eligibility.
You may be eligible for one of our scholarships or bursaries to help you on your way.
Chat to postgraduate students about student life at Teesside and discover societies and clubs beyond the classroom.
Take a tour of our friendly town centre campus and see our industry standard facilities.
Tour The Buttery - an exclusive study centre designed for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parttime/summer_courses.cfm:
A Summer University course will boost your confidence, may help you change career and could be your first step towards gaining a degree.
All Summer University courses have now started.
Register for updates
If you have received a conditional offer that requires you to study a Summer University course, more information will be sent to you soon.
If you have any questions, please contact us.
summer.university@tees.ac.uk
Summer University could be for you if you would like to:
Click apply now on the course page.
You can apply for multiple certificate courses on one application form (up to a maximum of 30 credits) - if you wish to study multiple courses please check delivery times and dates to ensure there are no clashes.
Courses appear as University Certificate of Credit on the apply online tab.
If you would like to change your selection or add additional courses after you have submitted your application, please email summer.university@tees.ac.uk
As some of our Summer University courses are delivered online it is necessary that you have access to a computer and are comfortable using an online learning platform.
You also need to have a strong internet connection.
In addition to this, each course may have minimum hardware or software requirements, or equipment that you should have access to in order to fully engage with the course.
Please check the 'entry requirements' tab on each course page before you apply.
Choose from a range of courses across many subject areas.
Whatever your interests and ambitions, we have something for you.
All courses are delivered online.
We have a range of accredited courses for you to choose from - if you complete an accredited course, you receive a certificate of credit.
If you choose to study an accredited course, you can access Student Services and receive support with financial matters, health and wellbeing, careers and counselling.
More about student support
Each course costs £50.
Fees are waived if you have been given a conditional offer from Teesside University based on passing a Summer University module.
Fees will be reimbursed if:
Due to the content and delivery of our Summer University courses, it is advised that applicants are aged 16+ at the time of enrolment.
If you are applying for an online course and are under the age of 18 at the time of enrolment, you must provide a completed parental consent form.
You can download the parental consent form and send to summer.university@tees.ac.uk after you submit your Summer University application.
'I decided that I needed more skills and a Winter University course provided that.'
Ruth, Intro to History
Yes, you can complete up to three courses as long as they do not run at the same time.
Yes, all applicants that have to complete one of our Summer or Winter courses as part of their conditional offer must fill in the application form.
No, applicants who are required to complete a Summer or Winter course as part of their conditional offer to enrol onto a degree programme with Teesside University are not required to pay.
No, they do not have UCAS points attached.
These are standalone courses that have 10 Level 4 / Level 3 University credits attached, which is something completely different to UCAS points.
Yes, once assessment marks have been agreed by the assessment board you will receive a certificate in the post.
A digital record of progress will also be available.
Some courses are offered via online learning.
These all have (online) in the title and are listed separately from the on-campus courses.
Please email winter.university@tees.ac.uk to make changes to your application.
Due to the intensity of the course, you are expected to attend all lessons.
We advise missing no more than one lesson.
Only new students on a on campus course need to upload a photograph.
If you are a current student, you can use you current TUSC card.
If you are applying for an online course, you will not receive a student card.
Students studying an online course, that live locally, can request a TUSC card to access the library.
Yes, current students are required to pay for the course.
If you are successful in passing the course assessment you will be refunded the course fees.
Refunds are only issued after the assessment grades have been approved by the assessment board.
Refunds for Winter University are normally processed in May and Summer University Refunds are in October.
Enrolment details will be sent to you at least a week before the course starts.
Unfortunately not, we require payment for courses at least 72 hours in advance of you starting.
Our winter courses are not covered by student finance and so funding is not available.
Courses are free if it is part of your conditional offer.
Course fees will be refunded if you are current student and pass the course, or are an applicant and enrol on a degree programme worth 60 credits or more in the following year.
Once you have attended your first lesson refunds are not granted.
It may be possible to transfer onto another course.
Please contact us to discuss.
Please email us first and then complete the intention to withdraw/interrupt your studies form on E Vision.
Please contact ithelp@tees.ac.uk and include your student number.
Please follow the instructions provided as part of enrolment, if you still encounter issues take a screen shot of the error message and forward it to ithelp@tees.ac.uk .
If you are an international applicant that has not studied at a UK university before you are required to provide proof of English language proficiency.
This can be IELTS 5.5, WAEC C6 or equivalent qualifications.
Unfortunately we are unable to provide support with Visa applications or provide CAS numbers or letters of admission for these courses.
Studying doesn't have to stop when your course ends.
We hope our Summer University courses inspire you to continue your studies.
Come to one of our open days to find out what you can do after your course has finished.
More about our open days
Teesside University reserves the right to change the advertised programme without notice.
Running or continuing any course or class depends on having enough students enrolled and attending.
This is a general guide to Winter University and its courses and considerable efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of information provided.
Applicants are advised that developments after the guide has been published and the programmes have been completed may lead to omissions and inaccuracies in the course guide, for which the University disclaims legal liability.
The information given in the course guide does not impose on the University any obligation to provide or to continue to provide, any course, module, tuition, assessment or amenity described in the course guide.
For example, the University is under no obligation to offer a programme which has enrolled a small number of students.
Similarly, the University retains the right to make reasonable changes in the curriculum content, method of teaching, form of assessment and location of some or all elements of a course.
However, as far as possible, the University will consult the applicants or students affected before implementing significant changes; and although the University will not accept liability for any disruption to applicants or students caused by circumstances beyond its control, including but not limited to fires, strikes (of its own or other employees), insurrection or riots, embargoes, requirements or regulations of any civil or military authority (as 'event of force majeure'), the University will take reasonable steps to minimise the impact of such interference with its ability to provide educational or other services.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parttime/winter_courses.cfm:
A Winter University  course will boost your confidence, may help you change career and could be your first step towards gaining a degree.
Register your interest below to be kept updated
winter.university@tees.ac.uk
Winter University could be for you if you would like to:
Read the FAQs
You can apply for multiple certificate courses on one application form (up to a maximum of 30 credits).
If you would like to change your selection or add additional courses after you have submitted your application, please email winter.university@tees.ac.uk
As some of our Winter University courses are delivered online it is necessary that you have access to a computer and are comfortable using an online learning platform.
If you have a disability or specific learning difficulty and require support to attend a Winter University course, please email winteruniversity@tees.ac.uk.
More information about Disability Services .
Due to the content and delivery of our Winter University courses, it is advised that applicants are aged 16+ at the time of enrolment.
You can download the parental consent form and send to winter.university@tees.ac.uk after you submit your application.
How Ruth went from studying a Teesside University Winter University course, to a degree, to a PhD.
We hope our Winter University courses inspire you to continue your studies.
Book on one of our open days to find out what you can do after your course has finished.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/az.cfm:
* Subject to University approval

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/about.cfm:
You'll have access to all of the world-class teaching and support that Teesside University has to offer, but all of your lectures, tutorials and assessments will take place online.
Courses run for a fixed duration at certain points in the year.
Some activities are scheduled - such as online meetings with your tutor - but otherwise you're free to access and work through the video lectures, reading materials and other online activities at your leisure.
Our online courses deliver future facing learning and are designed to empower you with the skills, knowledge and expertise to thrive in a globally connected workplace.
We use cutting-edge digital tools and platforms to provide an outstanding student experience, promoting collaboration between learners across the globe.
Our digital ecosystem adopts software widely used in industry, providing a seamless transition between education and the workplace.
Our courses are designed to meet the needs of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, empowering you to advance your career and preparing you for the complex challenges of the modern workplace.
At Teesside University Online Learning, we are proud of our experienced team of professionals.
Meet the team
Complete our enquiry form
We offer a broad range of flexible, online and open learning courses.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/staff.cfm:
We are proud of our experienced team of professionals
I will be teaching a dynamic course designed for individuals aspiring to pursue careers in childcare and education.
My focus will be on key areas such as child development, contemporary issues impacting children today, and exploring global perspectives on children’s experiences.
I have a wealth of real-world experience with a career spanning manufacturing, energy, and process industries.
I have worked with top companies, applying cutting-edge technologies to solve complex challenges.
I am passionate about fostering student- and research-led learning experiences.
My teaching approach encourages students to develop their unique creative voices while engaging critically with contemporary writing practices.
I aim to equip students with the skills, confidence, and industry knowledge necessary to thrive as professional writers or creatives beyond university life.
I am dedicated to equipping students with the skills and knowledge they need to excel in their careers.
I guide students in mastering advanced techniques and practical approaches.
I deliver online Engineering courses providing flexible, user-friendly access to learning materials on any device.
The structured course design includes comprehensive materials, study guides, and practical kits where needed, allowing learners to study at their own pace and fit education around their lifestyle.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/courses.cfm:
We offer a broad range of flexible, online and open learning courses designed to fit around you and your other commitments, putting you in control of pace and place.
Courses include:
Climate change is one of the biggest challenges to humanity in the 21st century and a systems thinking approach is needed to tackle the problem.
Finance is a global and fast-moving discipline with many opportunities.
Finance is a rapidly evolving, global field brimming with opportunities.
This course develops your understanding of global trade, financial markets, investment portfolio management, financial services, and the impact of new technology and derivative instruments on the industry.
Bring your vision into focus with this 12-week 100% online course exploring the creative and technical foundations of photography.
Develop compelling photography through research and experimentation, whether your approach is analogue, digital or post-photographic, enabling you to articulate your vision in a way that’s right for you.
Aviation is a dynamic and turbulent industry, facing numerous external challenges while maintaining a focus on its keynote pillars of sustainability.
Discover this buoyant and accelerated sector, restored with innovative business models and an enhanced consumer perspective.
Today’s global business environment is disruptive and dynamic, posing various organisational leadership challenges.
Our 100% online DBA programme gives you the knowledge and skills you need as a business leader.
This innovative and flexible online top up degree helps you develop the skills and knowledge valued by employers and give your CV a boost, enabling you to build on your previous qualifications (such as professional body qualifications or a HND/FdA or equivalent) to gain a full bachelor’s degree – 100% online.
Build your knowledge and experience of international business and strategic management to future proof  your career as a successful business leader.
Immerse yourself in the dynamic international business landscape.
The Teesside University International Business School MBA (Online) is a flexible global programme for ambitious working professionals and aspiring business leaders.
You develop the skills, knowledge and mind-set to tackle the difficult challenges facing organisations of all sizes, drive strategic change and make a real, practical difference to the success of businesses, economies and society.
Cyber attacks are one of the biggest threats to global security and there is a high demand for specialist skills in this field.
This conversion course prepares you for a career in this field.
Cyber attacks are one of the biggest threats to global security and there is a high demand for specialist skills in the field of cyber security.
This course is designed to prepare you for a career in this field.
This conversion course is designed to prepare you for a career in this field.
Data scientists are responsible for the handling of raw data, analysing it, identifying patterns and presenting insights for forecasting and predicting business problems.
Data science uses maths, statistics, machine learning, a range of computer science disciplines and a common toolset such as Python, SQL, and R.
This conversion master’s course allows you to enter the field of computer science, with insights into programming and applications to meet business needs.
This conversion postgraduate certificate course allows you to enter the field of computer science, with insights into programming and applications to meet business needs.
This conversion postgraduate diploma course allows you to enter the field of computer science, with insights into programming and applications to meet business needs.
The Doctorate in Criminal Justice (Online) provides you with the theoretical and practical skills you need to conduct your own research project in a specialised area of criminal justice practice.
Gain the professional skills you need for a career in the criminal justice system at a local, national and international level.
This module prepares you for entry to our BA (Hons) Childhood Studies (Top-up) (Online) course.
This course has been specifically designed to provide a top-up degree that provides a direct route to graduate status for those wishing to progress their career within the children’s workforce.
This course offers current and aspiring education professionals, teaching within a range of international contexts, a flexible route towards gaining a Postgraduate Certificate in Education International (PGCEi) Learning and Teaching in International Contexts (Online).
This online top-up degree is a natural progression route for holders of a QCF Level 5 HND or equivalent in a related discipline.
This distance learning chemical engineering HNC course is for learners who wish to work as technicians/technician engineers in the chemical or process engineering sectors, manufacture, maintenance and testing.
It has been developed in consultation with local industry, and combines theory and practical work with a focus on industrial applications.
This distance learning chemical engineering HND course is designed for learners who wish to work as technicians/technician engineers in the chemical or process engineering sectors.
You could be involved in manufacturing, maintenance and testing work.
It has been developed in consultation with local industry, and combines theory and practical work with the focus being on industrial applications.
Our online top up degree is flexible and enhances your career prospects.
This distance learning electrical and electronic engineering HNC course is for learners who wish to work as a technician or technician engineer in electrical and electronics design, manufacture, maintenance, testing or fault finding.
The programme has been developed in consultation with local industry, and combines theory and practical work a focus on industrial applications.
This distance learning electrical and electronic engineering HND course is a Teesside University award delivered under licence from Pearson by Teesside University open learning.
The course provides you with a programme of study over a range of disciplines to help you develop skills to progress your career through employment or further education at degree level.
In a world facing urgent environmental challenges, renewable energy sources are gaining popularity and there is a growing demand for talent in the energy industry.
This HNC in energy engineering is a step towards a career in the energy industry.
As renewable energy becomes more important and traditional energy systems undergo transformation, there is a growing demand for talent in the energy industry.
This HND in energy engineering provides a solid foundation to build your career in the energy industry.
Take the next step in your engineering career with this degree.
Designed for those with a QCF Level 5 HND or equivalent in engineering or technology, this programme builds on your existing skills and knowledge, equipping you with the critical expertise needed to thrive in the industry.
This distance learning instrumentation and control engineering HNC course is for learners who wish to work as technicians/technician engineers in instrumentation and control engineering design, manufacture, maintenance, testing or fault finding or the communications industry.
Developed in consultation with local industry, it combines theory and practical work with  industrial applications.
This distance learning instrumentation and control engineering HND course is a Teesside University award delivered under licence from Pearson by Teesside University Open Learning.
Project management involves implementing methodologies, knowledge, skills and techniques to successfully deliver projects efficiently and effectively.
Develop the skills to lead, plan, and execute successful projects in a dynamic and ever-evolving business landscape.
This distance learning mechanical engineering HNC course is for learners who wish to work as technicians/technician engineers in mechanical engineering design, manufacture, maintenance and testing.
Developed in consultation with local industry, it combines theory and practical work with the focus being on industrial applications.
This distance learning mechanical engineering HND course is a Teesside University award delivered under licence from Pearson by Teesside University Open Learning.
This distance learning process engineering HNC course is for learners who wish to work as technicians/technician engineers in the process engineering sector, manufacture, maintenance and testing.
This distance learning process engineering HND course is for learners who wish to work as technicians/technician engineers in the process engineering sector, manufacture, maintenance and testing.
This supportive and non-residency online creative writing course is your opportunity to develop your writing practice at the times that work for you, wherever you are in the world.
Are you interested in the ways that creative writing can be used as a tool for wellbeing?
Perhaps you already work with creative writing in this context or maybe you’d like to find out more about this growing field of practice and research?
Start your story with us – wherever you are in the world.
Whether you’re a passionate reader, an aspiring writer or both, our BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing (Online) course invites you to explore the power of words from the comfort of your own home.
Are you interested in why the world is the way it is, and how it came to be that way?
To fully understand the present, we must look to the past.
Dive into our BA (Hons) History (Online) course to learn how history can shape your future.
Develop your historical knowledge and research skills as you deep dive and analyse texts and pursue meaningful questions about the past.
In today's fast-paced marketing landscape, it’s crucial to equip yourself with the strategic principles, tools, and skills needed to create engaging and impactful content.
Empower yourself to enhance your knowledge in digital marketing and communications.
Study 100% online and explore the changing nature of the communications landscape in the 21st century.
In our pioneering 100% online MA Producing for Film and TV course you learn how to lead on film production from inception to completion, handling all aspects of the film production process, from planning and casting, to managing finances, editing and marketing.
Behind every successful film is a strategically nimble and creatively insightful producer.
This course is for those people - the ones who get it made.
Designed for registered healthcare professionals involved or looking to work in teaching, training and supporting the learning of others in health and social care settings or higher education.
Advance your understanding of human factors in a healthcare context and enhance patient safety.
Designed specifically for experienced professionals working in public health, this 100% online Doctor of Public Health (DrPH) (Online) programme offers a flexible route to doctoral-level study – no matter where you live or work.
Develop the skills to think like a senior investigator.
Our 100% online MSc Criminal Investigation gives you an in-depth understanding of contemporary investigative practice, criminal law, and the realities of tackling major and organised crime.
If you have an interest in exploring aspects of cognitive, developmental, biological and social psychology as they apply to neurodiversity then this is your course.
Develop an in-depth understanding of the scope of psychology and learn how to apply theory to practice.
If you have an interest in pursuing careers in research in psychology and wider social science disciplines this course is for you.
Our range of online, accredited short courses will boost your confidence, may help you change career and could be your first step towards gaining a degree.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/tuole.cfm:
Teesside University online learning in engineering is one of the leading providers of high-quality flexible education to the engineering industry.
View our courses Why TUOLE
The principal entry requirement for a Teesside University online learning in engineering HNC course is that our tutors are satisfied that you can be expected to benefit from the course and have a realistic expectation of successfully completing it.
The basic entry requirement for the HNC courses is a Level 3 qualification in mathematics.
If you don't hold a qualification at this level, we have a bridging module available - Foundation Mathematics for Engineers.
If you wish to start with the Foundation Mathematics for Engineers module, please state this on your application form.
For entry onto either HNC Chemical Engineering or HNC Processing Engineering you may be required to complete a bridging module in Process Chemistry.
For entry onto a BEng Tech (Hons) top-up course you need a HND in a relevant subject.
We make every effort to take relevant previous experience and appropriate alternative qualifications into account.
Home students may be eligible to apply for a student loan using the Student Finance website .
Click on 'apply online for student finance'.
Search for Teesside University and the course title for the month you wish to start your studies and apply for a loan of £990 only to cover the cost of the first two modules.
You must not select the maximum allowance option.
If you study more than two modules within your year, the University will issue the Student Loans Company with an electronic change of circumstances request for an increase in your tuition fee loan.
Please note you must apply each year for your next student loan - for example, if your loan starts in May 2017 you will need to apply again in May 2018 for that year.
When you receive your letter of confirmation from the Student Loans Company, please email it to us at tuole@tees.ac.uk before the start of your course.
Please note that the foundation modules (if applicable) are not covered by this loan.
We are an ELCAS provider, provider number 1691.
Please visit Student Finance for information on how to apply for a student loan.
Take advantage of Teesside University online learning engineering courses to efficiently develop your technical and engineering workforce.
Online learning is the most cost effective means of providing your staff with the education they need to ensure your company remains competitive.
Our courses are equally suited to ongoing professional development of senior technical managers as to supporting established vocational training such as apprenticeships.
With a comprehensive tutor support network and competitively priced programmes, your flexible, accredited study with us means you can enhance your skills and knowledge in a way that suits you.
The HNC/D programmes are delivered via a dedicated online support site through TU Online VLE which provides learning and support materials.
Our internationally renowned study materials let you progress at your own pace, when and where you wish.
It's flexible.
All our course materials are self-contained and come with a full support and assessment package, allowing you to achieve your internationally recognised technical and engineering qualification.
The courses are delivered through our online site TU Online VLE
Join the tens of thousands of successful technicians and engineers whose career progression has been vitalised and underpinned by qualifications gained through online learning from Teesside University.
The University is fundamental to developing and upskilling our people so that they meet the needs of the future.
George Ritchie, Senior Vice-President, Sembcorp

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/benefits.cfm:
There are many benefits to learning online.
During welcome week you will meet your course colleagues online; and tutors who are available for academic guidance and support.
You have opportunities to engage in peer-to-peer learning throughout the course and with social activities via live discussion forums and collaborate sessions in our virtual learning experience platform.
Here you can build your network while you learn, develop and progress together, as a connected cohort.
Our online programmes deliver future-facing learning.
They are informed by industry and underpinned by over 30 years of open learning experience.
Academically equivalent to our on-campus degrees, the programmes involve the same quality and level of work overall, but at a time and place to suit you.
You have access to the same support services as on-campus students, which includes millions of learning resources such as ebooks and journal articles, available 24/7.
From tutor support to an in-person graduation, your sense of belonging is enabled through our community of online learners.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/why.cfm:
Study a flexible online course with a UK university ranked in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings.*
Are you a busy professional looking for a formal qualification to take your career to the next level?
Do you want to pursue your passion for learning but think you can’t spare the time?
Think again.
At Teesside University, we offer a broad range of flexible, online and open learning courses designed to fit around you and your other commitments, putting you in control of pace and place.
We’ve been delivering high-quality, stand-alone, open learning education for over 30 years so we have a track-record of success that you can trust.
You don’t need to attend lectures on campus, so there are no accommodation or transport costs, and you don‘t require a student visa.
Find out more award, league table and survey information
Teesside University online learning courses are delivered through the Brightspace Learning Environment, providing a fully interactive and collaborative digital learning experience.
Find out more our learning platform

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/learning_platform.cfm:
Teesside University online learning courses are delivered through the Brightspace Learning Environment.
Here are some of the benefits.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/edufuturists.cfm:
The Edufuturists University of the Year Award recognises the major impact Teesside University is making on students through its forward thinking, innovative, strategic and engaging practices.
The award reinforces the University's commitment to engage with new ways of learning, ensuring our students are equipped with the digital skills, knowledge and expertise to flourish and thrive in an ever-changing landscape.
Our Future Facing Learning programme has placed the University firmly at the forefront of the digital revolution in higher education and we will continue to drive innovation and creativity through digital technology.
The Edufuturists University of the Year Award is the latest in a long line of accolades for Teesside University which showcase its commitment to digital teaching and learning.
Teesside University has been recognised for its relentless pursuit of cutting-edge practice.
Higher education is a space where revolution is happening, and Teesside are indeed leading the way.
Ben Whitaker, Edufuturists Director

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/fees.cfm:
Tuition fees for our online learning courses vary - please check the course page for the correct fee.
You can apply at any time and you don't pay anything until after you have been accepted onto a course.
You are required to pay in full for the modules you are studying.
Modules will be released via the TU Online Learning portal in accordance with the start date of each module set out in your course structure.
Payment for each module is required before access to course materials can be granted.
Please note that the release of study materials may take up to three working days after payment is made to allow for processing.
How to pay Pay online - all payments must be made in sterling (£) by debit card, credit card or PayPal using the online shop .
The modules required for your programme of study are listed in your TU Online Induction pack which you can access through the induction area of the portal.
Payment of your course fee is structured on a module-by-module basis to help you spread the cost of your learning.
If you are an undergraduate and funded by a student loan then please send your payment schedule to prove funding to tuonlinepayments@tees.ac.uk .
Without proof of funding, we will be unable to release module materials.
If you are a postgraduate funded by a student loan, you will need to send proof of your loan to tuonlinepayments@tees.ac.uk in order for your funding to be released to you.
However, that will not release the module content - as you receive the loan payments (rather than them coming to the University), you are expected to pay yourself for each module using the online shop .
If you are a sponsored student please send proof of sponsorship to both tuonlinepayments@tees.ac.uk and studentlife@tees.ac.uk .
Doctorate Business Administration (DBA) (Online) students Student type Option Payment deadline Instalments Payment method Amount All students (Part-time) N/A Upfront (before course start date) 1 instalment Online shop £6,300 There are two options for paying the remaining £15,750.
Contact studentlife@tees.ac.uk to discuss the best option for you.
All students (Part-time) One Before commencing the 300 credit module (year 2) 1 instalment Invoice £15,750 All students (Part-time) Two Before commencing the 300 credit module (year 2) 3 instalments each year (in years 2, 3 and 4) Invoice £5,250 (each year) Find out more E: studentlife@tees.ac.uk
Pay online - all payments must be made in sterling (£) by debit card, credit card or PayPal using the online shop .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/funding.cfm:
Paying for your course fees can be a significant outlay so it's important you make the right decisions about financing your studies.
If you're based in the UK, you may be eligible to apply for a tuition fee loan or a postgraduate student loan.
Our pay-as-you-go payment plan has no monthly obligations.
You simply make a payment when you are ready to start the next stage of your course.
Students in England Students living in England may be eligible for a part-time tuition fee loan to cover the cost of your course fees.
This is a non-income based loan and you only start making repayments when your income is above the repayment threshold.
The total number of credits studied in any year must be worth a minimum of 25% (30 credits) of a full-time course (120 credits) - this depends on how many modules you choose and the credit value of each module - see the relevant course page for more information.
Students in Wales Our online courses are registered with the Welsh Assembly.
If you are resident in Wales you may be eligible for grant funding from Student Finance Wales (SFW) .
Students in Northern Ireland If you are resident in Northern Ireland you may be eligible for grant funding from Student Finance Northern Ireland (SFNI) .
Students in Scotland All distance learning is considered part-time by Students Award Agency Scotland (SAAS) , unfortunately SAAS does not fund part-time courses outside of Scotland.
If you are a Scottish resident applying for one of our online courses, you are unable to claim funding.
Postgraduate loans of up to £12,858* are available for master's degrees in all subjects as a contribution towards your course and living costs.
*Subject to change.
Eligibility
The Ministry of Defence's Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme promotes lifelong learning among members of the British Armed Forces.
The scheme provides financial support in each of a maximum of three separate financial years for higher level learning of a nationally recognised qualification at Level 3 or above.
Please contact us on 01642 335018 to discuss your eligibility to apply for ELC funding.
Disabled students' allowances are available to help cover some of the extra costs you have because of a mental health problem, long-term illness or any other disability.
The Ministry of Defence's Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme (ELC) is available to members of the Armed Forces wishing to undertake higher education with approved ELC learning partners.
Our provider number is 1716.
If you're working and studying, your employer or another sponsor may fund your course or make a contribution to your fees.
They need to write to us on headed paper to confirm their intention to fund, or part fund, your studies or complete our sponsor letter template.
We invoice them for the full academic year, part-contribution or on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Your sponsor will need to write to us again in the September of each academic year in which they will be sponsoring your studies (the start of the academic year is always in September, regardless of when you start your course.)
Our online courses enable ambitious employees to balance their commitment to work with online study.
Our work-related courses are accredited by professional bodies so you can be sure that our course content is relevant.
Our specialist online tutors are experts in their respective fields so you'll benefit from the insight they share with your employee.
You may wish to sponsor an employee who is:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/events.cfm:
Find out more and ask questions about our flexible online learning courses - all designed to fit around you and your other commitments.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/onlinelearning/contact.cfm:
If you would like to be kept in touch about our Teesside University Online courses or have a question, please choose the relevant option below.
Complete our form to request further information and to be kept up-to-date with the latest details.
Complete our form
Complete our form or use our online chat to send us your question.
Online chat
If you prefer to email us, please use the email address below.
onlinelearning@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/international_courses/index.cfm:
EU and international students
View our Pre-sessional English courses
For international students who do not meet direct entry requirements.
Please note: Course length - a full-time master's degree is normally completed within one year.
Please check the exact course dates with the relevant School or Academic Registry before applying.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/isb2024.cfm:
The International Student Barometer (ISB) is an annual survey conducted by Etio , an independent organisation that reviews, evaluates, benchmarks, and supports education services in institutions worldwide.
The International Student Barometer (ISB) provides universities with an understanding of international students' motivations, expectations and experiences at participating institutions worldwide.
At Teesside University, we use this survey to gain insights into the experience we offer our international students, identify what we are doing well, and understand where we can improve.
In the recent autumn 2024 survey, Teesside University received a total of 1,712 responses, resulting in a response rate of 39.2% from a population of 4,364 students.
Globally, 105,385 students participated in the survey, sharing their feedback on their respective institutions.
Below is a selection of feedback received from our international students about Teesside University.
*Based on the views of 1,712 survey participants at Teesside University.
The percentage reflects the number of students who answered with 'satisfied' or 'very satisfied' to the specific question in the survey.
For further information about this survey, please visit https://etioglobal.org/performance-benchmarking/international-student-barometer | www.tees.ac.UK/sections/international/isb2024.cfm **postgraduate students only

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/country.cfm:
Find out about our entry requirements, our global offices and agents in your area.
Teesside University global offices We have regional teams based in based in Beijing, Gurugram, Lagos, Lahore and Malaysia
We have regional teams based in based in Beijing, Gurugram, Lagos, Lahore and Malaysia
If you are an international student currently in the UK you can view a list of UK-based agents.
UK-based agents
If you do not meet direct entry requirements for a degree level, remember you also have the
			opportunity to complete a pathway programme at the Teesside University International Study Centre.
Upon successful completion you can progress to your chosen degree at the Teesside University.
For information and advice contact the international office: T: +44 (0) 1642 738900 E: internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/careers.cfm:
Launching your career At Teesside our focus is on your career path, not just your graduation day.
We help develop the skills employers value most.
At Teesside our focus is on your career path, not just your graduation day.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/news.cfm:
The new MPharm (Hons) Pharmacy programme commencing at Teesside University in September 2025 will develop the talent pipeline and offer exciting international opportunities for budding pharmacists.
8 Aug 2025
Teesside University recently welcomed a delegation of senior academics from Thammasat University in Thailand to establish a formal collaboration between the two institutions.
The visit aimed to promote joint initiatives in transnational education (TNE), facilitate staff and student exchanges, foster collaborative research, and knowledge sharing.
7 Aug 2025

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/partnerships.cfm:
Our Global Partnerships connect us with leading educational institutions across Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia, East Asia, Southeast Asia, and South Asia.
By collaborating with renowned universities and specialised schools, we provide our students with access to diverse learning experiences and international perspectives.
These partnerships allow us to offer industry-relevant courses in fields ranging from business and management to fashion design, digital innovation, health and life sciences, and media production.
Through this global network, we aim to foster cross-cultural collaboration and prepare students for success in an interconnected world.
The Management Development Institute of Singapore (MDIS) in Tashkent is a top business and management school, known for its high-quality education and international partnerships.
MDIS Dushanbe offers a range of business and management courses, with a strong focus on practical application and globally recognized degrees in collaboration with international universities.
Ferrari Fashion School, part of Plena Education, is renowned for its specialized training in fashion design and technology.
Students receive hands-on experience, preparing them for careers in the global fashion industry.
ETIC, School of Technologies, Innovation and Creation, is a creative school in Lisbon focusing on audiovisual design and technology courses.
It fosters creativity and innovation through practical and collaborative learning environments.
A leading institution in Spain specializing in video production and media education, it emphasizes the development of technical skills and creative storytelling.
A digital creative business school offering immersive learning experiences, Hyper Island focuses on digital strategy, innovation, and leadership for the modern workplace.
British Applied College in the UAE offers a range of undergraduate programs with a focus on practical applied learning, aiming to equip students with industry-relevant skills.
BMS in Sri Lanka offers a variety of undergraduate and postgraduate programs in partnership with international universities, focusing on equipping students with business and management skills.
Malaysia's largest public university, UiTM offers a wide range of courses and is known for fostering entrepreneurship and innovation among its students.
Teesside University delivers a selection of health courses at UiTM , designed to enhance professional skills and support career progression in the healthcare sector.
MDIS Singapore is a renowned institution offering programs in business, engineering, fashion, and more.
It collaborates with global universities to provide industry-relevant education.
Amity Global Institute offers programs in business management and technology in partnership with leading global universities, emphasizing global exposure and career-oriented education.
Hyper Island Singapore provides courses focused on digital transformation and leadership, helping students and professionals adapt to the rapidly changing digital landscape.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/team.cfm:
The team create opportunities for international engagement, whether  that is studying with us here at Teesside University, through TNE across the  globe or by engaging in our extensive student mobility activities.
Internationalisation is at the heart of Teesside University and we are proud to  advance this agenda through our activity.
Our people are our greatest asset; they’re smart, funny, clever, innovative  and experienced.
Feel free to contact us anytime or just read a little bit  about us below.
george.hunt@tees.ac.uk
George is Teesside's Director of International Development, with responsibility for overseeing international recruitment, student mobility initiatives and international partnerships.
A graduate of University of Leeds and Northumbria University, George has worked in the UK HE sector for the past ten years and sees internationalisation is one of the most valuable elements of UK higher education.
Originally from the Tyne Valley, he is a supporter of Middlesbrough FC but only for the glory.
j.watsonjames@tees.ac.uk
Jessica joined Teesside University in March 2022 with significant experience of recruiting and marketing to both UK and international students.
Her career has been centred around higher education having worked in Swansea University and Cardiff University previously.
I.Rashid@tees.ac.uk
Imran joined Teesside University in March 2021 and has extensive experience in recruiting both UK and international students across his career.
Imran worked in UK student recruitment for Teesside University and the University of Sunderland and then went on to work for QA Higher Education, where he recruited students from the Middle East and North Africa regions.
Imran has a strong passion in assisting and providing opportunities for students in education around the world.
A.Cordes@tees.ac.uk
Alizée joined Teesside University in 2021 with experience in international student support, international mobility and recruitment.
Prior to joining the university, she worked at York St John University and University Bordeaux Montaigne (France).
Alizée is passionate about international education and helping students achieve their full potential.
She looks after international mobilities including summer experiences and study abroad.
matthew.gallagher@tees.ac.uk
Matthew joined the DID in May 2023 with over 10 years' experience working in the higher education sector.
During his career, he has specialised in international recruitment and partnership development in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and the Americas.
His experience also includes work on the UK government's Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office committee for international scholarships.
In his current role, he develops integrated communication plans to guide students through the admissions and compliance process.
In addition to this, his role also helps to advise students on how make an application, as well as advising students on pre-departure and orientation details.
Matthew's portfolio also includes international scholarships and the extremely popular TU webinars for international students and partners.
y.wang@tees.ac.uk
Yazhu Wang, joined in August 2023, is currently the International Marketing and Campaigns Manager at Teesside University.
With over six years of experience in the UK higher education sector, she excels in international student recruitment and marketing.
Her role involves developing data-driven, multi-channel campaigns, overseeing key events, and managing international marketing collateral.
Originally from China, Yazhu graduated from Beijing University of Chinese Medicine and Northumbria University.
With a strong background in Business Analytics and Digital Marketing, Yazhu combines strategic planning, stakeholder management, and campaign management to meet the university's recruitment goals.
She is passionate about promoting exceptional international education opportunities globally.
l.paylor-orr@tees.ac.uk
Lindsey joined Teesside University in 2015 following several years in marketing and communication roles at the University of the Arts, London.
She is responsible for developing innovative digital and print marketing assets to support international development activities.
Lindsey specialises in visual communication, focusing on widening audience participation through Accessibility best practices.
a.faulkner@tees.ac.uk
Angela has been with the university for over eleven years, the last six in International Development.
Her previous roles involved working with students, businesses and stakeholders, skills she still continues to use in her current role.
As Administrator she is responsible for monitoring the department budgets, arranging travel and supporting the Centre Manager with Erasmus+.
j.davies@tees.ac.uk
Jade started her journey at Teesside University in June 2022, bringing a broad wealth of expertise in marketing and communications.
Back during her pursuit of a bachelor's degree, a remarkable achievement came her way - the Dolphin Brewin Scholarship for International Business, beckoning her to Amsterdam for studies.
This unique opportunity not only enriched her academic pursuits but also bestowed upon her a profound understanding of the global student adventure.
In her capacity as an International Marketing Assistant, Jade plays a pivotal role, collaborating with the dynamic international marketing team to orchestrate and propel the University's endeavours in global marketing and communication.
She has also achieved a Distinction in MSc Digital Marketing.
l.kirby@tees.ac.uk
With over 20 years' experience in Administration and PA roles across Teesside, Louise joined Teesside University in September 2013.
She has previously worked as a PA in the School of Design, Culture and the Arts and the School of Science, Engineering and Design.
Since February 2019, Louise has delivered the role of PA to the Director for International Development.
africa@tees.ac.uk
Ijeoma joined Teesside University's West Africa Regional Office in 2019.
She has provided administrative support for international students from across West Africa who intend to study at Teesside University, since 2014.
In addition, she is responsible for organising the Teesside English Language Test for applicants from Africa.
V.Amadi@tees.ac.uk Vivian has a background in Economics and joined Teesside University in March 2021.
She is currently serving as the Assistant West Africa Country Manager where she plays the role of student support.
Vivian has a background in Economics and joined Teesside University in March 2021.
S.Olajide@tees.ac.uk
Shukurah Abolanle joined Teesside University West Africa Regional Office as Assistant Manager Admissions & Compliance in November 2021 where she is responsible for admissions and compliance issues within the region and provides support to international students on their application.
e.olugbenga@tees.ac.uk
Esther joined the West Africa Regional Office of Teesside University in September 2022 as a Student Recruitment and Conversion Officer.
In her role, she is responsible for providing comprehensive support to international students throughout their admission journey, Esther's commitment to delivering exceptional service has helped numerous students transition smoothly into their academic pursuits at Teesside University.
t.dosumu@tees.ac.uk
Joined Teesside University in January 2023, she currently serves as a Student Recruitment and Conversion Officer at Teesside University's West Africa Regional Office.
Her role is dedicated to guiding prospective international students through their application journey, ensuring a seamless and informed process.
hou.liang@tees.ac.uk
Liang joined Teesside University's International team in 2007 and leads the China office for the University.
Liang originally came as an international student in 1999 from Shandong Province in China; he enjoys much of the local culture and made lots of friends locally.
The North East of England became his new home.
Liang stayed in this region for 12 years before moving back to Beijing to set up the China office.
Having been a student himself, he understands international students and is always willing to help them.
Benefitting from his own experience in the UK, he is eager to share it with the international students.
m.wang@tees.ac.uk
Mengsi has been working for Teesside University China office since March 2012.
She has worked in a variety of roles including admissions, marketing and recruitment in China.
Her current role as Manager of the China office includes responsibility for Business School recruitment and managing the team.
Mengsi enjoys traveling across China, interacting with students and providing the most up to date information about Teesside University.
p.sun@tees.ac.uk
Pingyao joined Teesside University China Office in April 2015 after graduating from the University of the West Scotland (BA) and Cardiff University (PG).
Initially responsible for admissions, in September 2016 Pingyao started to work as Recruitment Officer for Creative programmes and managed the agent network, international foundation programmes, public universities, articulation programmes and individual applicants.
Pingyao truly enjoys traveling all over China and expanding her knowledge when traveling with academics from different Schools.
It is an exciting opportunity for her to share her knowledge and experience of our university with students and partners.
X.Feng@tees.ac.uk
With over 6 years of experience in international education, Xueer joined Teesside University China Office in September 2024 as an Admissions Officer.
She is responsible for admissions and enquiries from students and agents.
Xueer is dedicated to enhancing the University's impact in China and helping students begin their journey at Teesside University.
j.zhou@tees.ac.uk
Jiaqi accomplished her master program in Southampton in 2014.
Her previous working experience at a German education consulting company has brought her great interest in education and marketing.
Jiaqi joined Teesside University as the Marketing Officer within the China Office in early 2017 and is responsible for marketing activities in China.
She aims to enhance the branding of Teesside University in China.
Tianyu.Tang@tees.ac.uk
Tianyu has accomplished his master's programme in Indiana University of Pennsylvania in 2015 and joined Teesside University China Office in early 2019.
He is responsible for the agent network and Health programmes.
He enjoys local food during travel and like extreme sports.
J.Zhai@tees.ac.uk
Jiayue graduated from the University of Southampton with Marketing Management and joined in China office in July 2019.
She is mainly responsible for Admissions and assists colleagues by responding to enquiries from student or agents as well.
In her spare time, she enjoys travelling for enriching the knowledge and experiencing various cultures.
Ziyu.Gao@tees.ac.uk
Ziyu joined the China team in October 2024.
He is responsible for the development of partnerships with institutions in China and increasing Teesside brand awareness.
He is dedicated to improving student recruitment and fostering the Alumni network.
Based in South China, he is passionate about supporting all our incoming students through the entire cycle, from application to orientation.
His experience also includes work in the global tech industry and international education institutions.
Reach out with questions about the Teesside Experience.
S.Abidi@tees.ac.uk
Syed Abidi is a renowned Educationist, Consultant and Trainer with over 25 years' experience in international education, marketing and recruitment.
His responsibilities include expanding the current Pakistan market, overseeing the agent network, training and assuring outstanding support is delivered to students and partners of Teesside University.
In addition, Syed identifies development opportunities within the Middle Eastern Region including but not limited to KSA, UAE, Oman, Iran and Bahrain.
Syed Abidi is a recipient of a most prestigious Civil Award in Education from the President of Pakistan and has several international commendations and awards in the area of international student recruitment.
k.parveen@tees.ac.uk
Khalida has joined Teesside Regional Office Pakistan as Business Development and Operations Officer.
She has more than 8 years of experience in international student recruitment and marketing with different reputable agencies.
She will be assisting the Pakistan office in enhancing TU branding and profile and provide support in day to day operations.
z.masood@tees.ac.uk
Zaeem joined Teesside University in June 2021.
He has 15 years of experience in student recruitment.
He is responsible for admissions, marketing and recruitment activities in the Pakistan and Middle East/North Africa (MENA) region, including developing and maintaining working relationships with agencies.
padmini.parameswaran@tees.ac.uk
Padmini joined Teesside University in the year 2016.
She has  20 years of experience with Education UK.
She started her professional career as a teacher and after working with some of the best schools across the country she joined Middlesex University's Regional Office as Manager of Admissions.
She was Regional Director at University of Central Lancashire, University of East London and Northumbria University before she joined Teesside University.
Padmini enjoys interacting with students and advising them on their career choices.
She also likes to travel across South Asia and meet students from diverse backgrounds and cultures.
Despite her experience, the role is a constant learning curve, even after several years of experience.
J.Pathare@tees.ac.uk
Jayanti joined Teesside University's South Asia office in December 2021 as an Assistant Manager and is currently working as the Conversions Manager; responsible for recruitment, conversions, and pre-departure activities among other things.
She has almost a decade's worth of experience with Immigration New Zealand, having worked at their Auckland and Mumbai offices, where her last role was as a Technical Advisor.
i.furtado@tees.ac.uk
Iona joined Teesside University as a Compliance Manager (South Asia) in 2021.
She has 17 years of experience, a better part of which was as a Senior Immigration Officer at Immigration New Zealand.
She also previously worked in operations at JP Morgan Chase.
p.naidu@tees.ac.uk
Nandan joined Teesside University as a Compliance Manager (South Asia) in 2021.
His work involves conducting credibility interviews, verifying maintenance documents, overseeing enrollments and looking after compliance issues for South Asia applicants.
He has over 10 years of experience in student recruitment for the universities in the UK and Ireland.
He previously worked at Nexus Educational Services and IDP Education.
He was awarded Top Counsellor for IDP - Pan India in 2019 and 2020 and has delivered more than 50 seminars about studying in the UK.
j.chai@tees.ac.uk
June joined Teesside University South East Asia regional office in early 2019.
Prior to Teesside University, she was also in recruitment of students for Malaysia, the UK and USA institutions for the past 15 years.
Her current role includes developing and executing strategic business plans, positioning of Teesside University in SEA, building a strong network of local partners, recruitment of students with her team in the regional office; just to name a few.
June enjoys the thrill in recruitment and the opportunities to meet with people from different walks of life.
Her greatest satisfaction come from her students' success and building lifelong friendship along the way.
June looks forward to grow, to learn and to succeed together with Teesside University in this region.
rachel.lee@tees.ac.uk
Rachel graduated from Lancaster University in 2019 with a MBA Master of Business Administration.
She joined Teesside University's South East Asia regional office in 2007 when the office started its operations.
She was previously was the Head of Operations and Finance for SEGi College in Penang, Malaysia.
As an Operations Manager, Rachel manages the admission processes for South East Asia, and is also responsible for general operations, finance, office budgets and collaborations with transnational education (TNE) partners.
Rachel plays a key role in organising and managing Teesside University's events in the South East Asia region.
r.chai@tees.ac.uk
Ronnie joined Teesside University as Assistant Regional Manager to support the execution of regional recruitment, marketing strategy, market research, marketing campaigns and marketing communications.
He also supports the development and management of partnerships in conjunction with the international partnerships team and supports other initiatives aimed at raising the profile of Teesside University in these markets.
Prior to working with Teesside University, Ronnie developed significant experience of assisting Southeast Asia students in the pursuit of higher education opportunities.
In addition, he was also in student recruitment with a premier education group in Singapore.
Ronnie enjoys the process of recruitment as much as the outcome and successes of his work.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/english_language_centre.cfm:
The English Language Centre (ELC) mission is to support students in maximising their potential, thus ensuring successful academic and personal outcomes at Teesside University.
We work with both academic and professional services across the University to provide opportunities for developing the language, knowledge and skills needed to achieve these goals in an increasingly global context.
The ELC provides a range of services to our International students revolving around three key areas; Pre-Sessional English Support, pre-entry testing of students' language ability and In-sessional Academic Skills support.
We are all based in CL1.06, First Floor, Clarendon building (School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law)
Anthony Flint Head of English Language Centre a.flint@tees.ac.uk
Paul Brannan English Language Centre Co-Ordinator p.brannan@tees.ac.uk
James Brannan English Language Tutor j.brannan@tees.ac.uk
Graham Hornby English Language Tutor g.hornby@tees.ac.uk
Farzana Kazem English Language Tutor f.kazem@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/english.cfm:
To study at a British university, you need a high level of English to write academic essays and reports, listen to lectures and take notes, summarise academic texts, give academic presentations and take part in discussions and seminars.
If your English language skills are not at the required level, we have a range of pre-sessional English Language courses for you before you start your academic programme.
They will help build your confidence using English in the classroom and in your social life.
They will also help you to get to know the University and local area, adapt to life in the UK and make friends before you start your programme.
Pre-sessional English Language courses
International students who do not meet the direct entry requirements have the opportunity to complete a longer pathway programme at the Teesside University International Study Centre.
Upon successful completion you can progress to your degree study at Teesside University.
Preparation programmes
Most students applying for a visa to study in the UK will need to take an English Language Test .
This is because your chosen university needs evidence of your ability in English before they can provide you with a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) to support your visa application.
All students who are applying for a course which is below Bachelor's degree level must provide one of the following:
The University will accept the following tests for admission to degree and postgraduate programmes; this includes integrated programmes where a foundation course forms part of the degree:
Teesside  University will also accept the following English language tests for  applicants for programmes at degree level and above, providing applicants also  take part in an interview with the English Language Centre at Teesside  University:
For the majority of programmes at degree level and above, the minimum IELTS band score must be 5.5 in each band.
However, the following  health courses require a minimum IELTS band score of 6.5 in each band:
The following  health courses require a minimum IELTS score  of 6.5 in writing alongside a minimum of 7.0 in reading, listening and  speaking with a minimal overall score of 7.0.
If your level of English is lower than the level required by the university, but not lower than IELTS 4.5, you can take one of our pre-sessional English courses
If your level of English is lower than IELTS 4.5, you will need to take English classes in your own country to improve your IELTS score.
International students who do not meet the direct entry requirements have the
						opportunity to complete a preparation programme at the Teesside University
						International Study Centre.
Upon successful completion you can progress to
						your degree study at the Teesside University.
The University also accepts the following English language tests:
Students holding one the following qualifications at the illustrated grade or higher will be able to combine the qualification with a University interview to meet English language conditions.
The academic qualification demonstrates reading and writing ability and the interview will assess listening and speaking competency.
The option of meeting English language conditions in this way will be offered to eligible students holding one of the following qualifications during the admissions process:
For courses below degree level, such as pre-sessional English, foundation programmes and HNDs, students must sit a Secure English Language
To obtain a visa you will also need to meet the Home Office requirements
Once you have an offer, you will be advised on whether you need to take an additional English language test.
The additional English Language test is called the TELT: the Teesside University English Language Test and is an online Skype interview which assesses your English speaking and listening skills.
More information can be found in the next section: English Language Test (TELT) frequently asked questions.
If you have a conditional offer, please contact International Admissions who will be able to advise you further.
As part of the application for your course at Teesside University you may be eligible to take the Teesside University English Language Test (TELT) to assess your English language ability.
The TELT will help us to ensure you have the language necessary to be successful on your course.
If you need to take an additional English language course before starting your studies, the TELT will help us to place you on the right course.
In addition, it demonstrates you have the required level of English to apply for your tier 4 student visa.
The TELT will assess both your speaking and listening skills.
There is no separate listening test: your listening is assessed by your ability to respond to the examiner's questions.
Speaking and Listening: Both are assessed during an individual interview lasting around 12 minutes.
Please have your ID with you to be checked.
The 2 band TELT will be held online via Microsoft Teams.
You should make sure that you have a quiet, private room for the interview.
Also, make sure that you have a good internet connection; if the connection is poor or frequently cuts out, the interview may have to be rescheduled.
Check your headphones and speakers are working well.
Finally, make sure the room is well-lit so your whole face can be clearly seen.
If you have been asked to take a 4 band TELT, you will also be invited to attend your regional office for Teesside University to sit the reading and writing part.
Currently, the regional offices running these tests are: Nigeria, Pakistan and Malaysia.
If you are based in India, this service isn't currently provided, so you would need to take another 4 band English test, such as an IELTs.
This test consists of:
Please note, that your course deposit fee will be required before taking this test.
We do not provide example test papers for practice.
However, the speaking tests are similar to the IELTS exam.
Practise IELTS exams and additional practice resources
The University does not charge a fee for taking the TELT, it is a free test.
You can take the TELT again and usually the waiting time for this is a minimum of one month.
This is to give you time to practice and improve your English.
Your results are valid for two years.
For any other questions related to the TELT, which are not answered here, please email TELT@tees.ac.uk .
If you have already taken the test, and after 5 working days have not received your results, please contact international.admissions@tees.ac.uk .
For detailed information on acceptable English language qualifications, please view our English Language Policy and English Language  Approved Tests, Accepted Qualifications and Exemptions Criteria  Entry for Academic Year 2024/2025 .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/presessional.cfm:
Develop your English language skills before you start your academic programme.
If your English language skills are not at the required level, we have a range of courses for you before you start your academic programme.
A pre-sessional English course will help you:
To take pre-sessional English for courses requiring IELTS 6.0 entry, your minimum band score must be IELTS 4.5 in each band for the 12 week online and minimum 5.0 for the 6 week online with minimum UKVI IELTS 5.0 for the on campus course.
Note, the on campus course is delivered on the Teesside University Middlesbrough campus only.
Find specific entry points below:
Note: 25 August 2025 is a bank holiday and there will be no teaching on this day
* UKVI APPROVED
Depending on your current English language level, your course will last 12 or 6 weeks.
Your progress is continually monitored through classwork, homework tasks and tests.
Upon arrival in the UK all new international students will complete an orientation programme organised by our Student Services team.
The programme is designed to provide you with essential and useful information to help you settle into university life.
This is a great way to make new friends and meet the staff who will support you whilst you are studying at Teesside.
Orientation will help you familiarise yourself with the University campus and local area enjoy social events and trips - there may be a small charge (£2.00-£5.00) for some trips Induction On the first day of the course, all new international students will attend an induction organised by the English Language Centre.
Induction is designed to provide you with essential and useful information about the course.
This is also an opportunity to meet your academic course tutor and other international students who will be studying with you.
Assessment At the end of the course you must take 2 exams: a speaking and listening exam and a reading and writing exam.
On the first day of the course, all new international students will attend an induction organised by the English Language Centre.
At the end of the course you must take 2 exams: a speaking and listening exam and a reading and writing exam.
The course fee includes:
Both courses include 15 hours of self-directed learning/independent study per week.
There is an opportunity for a blended course, a combination of online and on-campus study with the first part of the course being online and the second part on campus.
You must be 18 years old or older at the start of the course to be eligible to apply for our Pre-Sessional English language courses.
If you want to apply for a pre-sessional English course, please email international.admissions@tees.ac.uk and you will be sent information on the next steps.
If you have your English test result when you apply for your main course If you already have an IELTS test result and want to study a pre-sessional course, state this on your application for your main course.
You will automatically be given an offer for the pre-sessional English course if you are in receipt of an offer for your main course.
If you don't have your English test results when you apply for your main course If you take your IELTS test after you have received a conditional offer for your main course and you need to do a pre-sessional course, please contact International Admissions by email.
Quote your student number and attach a copy of your test result.
We will then send you an offer for the pre-sessional course given that you will already be in receipt of an offer for a main course of study.
Email: international.admissions@tees.ac.uk
The pre-sessional English programmes are accredited by the British Council which guarantees high standards in teaching, study facilities and accommodation

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/insessional.cfm:
Are you an international student looking for support with academic writing, research, language, or study skills?
The English Language Centre (ELC) offers free in-sessional services that are tailored to your needs, designed to fit your schedule, with a focus on your academic success.
Our team of experienced tutors and language experts will work closely with you to help you excel in your studies.
Don't let any academic challenges hold you back - unlock your full academic potential with our in-sessional services.
Success is just a session away.
A series of 9, 120-minute workshops on a range of academic skills, running once a week (Wednesdays at 1.30pm) throughout the year.
No need to book a place in advance - just drop in to CL2.09 Themis West Building.
In Semester 1, the following workshops will be offered:
Attend all workshops to gain a Certificate of Attendance.
This workshop will help you develop the skills and strategies you need to actively listen, extract essential information, and create organized and effective notes, which are invaluable tools for academic success and lifelong learning.
This workshop will help you develop the skills and strategies you need to read, understand, and engage with academic texts effectively, ultimately enhancing your academic success and your ability to engage in scholarly discourse.
This workshop will help you develop the skills and mindset you need to read, analyse, evaluate, and engage with written materials critically in a thoughtful and discerning manner.
This workshop will help you develop the knowledge and skills you need to create well-structured, organized, coherent, and persuasive written documents that effectively convey your ideas to your intended audience.
This workshop will help you develop the knowledge and skills you need to maintain academic honesty, accurately incorporate external sources into their work, and avoid plagiarism while citing sources appropriately.
This workshop will help you develop the knowledge and skills you need to accurately and ethically acknowledge the sources of information and ideas used in their academic writing.
This workshop will help you develop the skills and knowledge you need to understand and apply the conventions of academic writing and produce writing that meets the standards and expectations of the academic community.
This workshop will help you develop the knowledge and skills you need to review, refine, and enhance any written content you produce with a keen eye for accuracy, clarity, and coherence to meet high-quality standards.
This workshop will help you develop the skills and strategies you need to deliver confident and effective presentations.
A social event, organised by the English Language Centre Support Team, currently running twice a week (Wednesdays and Fridays at 3:30pm) in the Student Union (Love lt Lounge, 1st Floor).
The Café offers a fun and interactive way for you to practise, improve, and expand your language skills, gain cultural insights, and connect with students from diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds, who share an interest in language learning.
It is a great opportunity for you to meet home and other international students, take part in social activities and events, make new friends, and engage in real-life conversations in a casual, relaxed, and enjoyable manner, outside of formal classroom settings.
To find out more, contact the English Language Café Co-ordinator, Irfan Sadiq at i.sadiq@tees.ac.uk
The English Language Centre have developed a range of educational resources designed to facilitate independent learning and skills development outside of formal classroom settings.
These resources, including video tutorials, handouts, and practice exercises, are tailored to allow you to learn at your own pace and in your own time, making them highly flexible and accessible.
They supplement the support offered through our in-sessional services.
To access the self-study materials, click on the link below and select any of the options in green from the menu on the left of the page.
Access self-study materials
For queries on in-sessional services, email us at insessional@tees.ac.uk
For news and updates on in-sessional services, follow us on X

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/immersion_programme.cfm:
This programme is designed for international students who wish to experience living and studying in the United Kingdom (UK), to improve their English skills and learn about British life, society and culture.
Students typically complete the immersion programme at Teesside in addition to their programme of study at their home university.
Students can complete 1 or 2 modules as part of the programme.
Each module lasts 14 weeks and is 30 credits at level 3.
The cost of each module is £3,500.
Module 1 - English Language Immersion Programme.
This module is for students with a minimum English level of IELTS 4.0 with no band below 3.5.
It focusses on general English language skills.
Module 2 - English Language in Higher Education Immersion Programme.
This module is for students with a minimum English level of IELTS 5.0 with no bands below 4.5.
It focusses more on academic English language skills.
For students on the UK Higher Education Immersion Programme, there are plenty of opportunities to make new friends from all around the world, participate in a wide range of cultural and social events organised by the University, the Students' Union and the International society.
And you also have the chance to travel around the UK during the holidays and at weekends.
For more information, e-mail the English Language Centre at tuelc@tees.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/accommodation.cfm:
We offer some of best-value University-managed accommodation in the UK, located on campus or very close by.
Be part of the University community and have the opportunity to participate in lots of extra activities organised by your hall such as sports and social events.
It's a great way to quickly develop a network of friends and get involved in university life.
We will do our best to help international student who apply before 1 September of the year they start with affordable student housing within easy reach of the University.
Our campus is a much safer environment than those in larger cities.
For your assurance, uniformed security officers patrol the campus and monitor closed-circuit television all day, every day.
You can also visit our security control room near to the library main entrance.
If you intend to bring dependents, you are strongly advised to make accommodation arrangements before travelling to the University.
Please note: we do not have accommodation for families.
You can find an abundance of property in Middlesbrough's private sector - in traditional houses or in purpose-built halls of residence Our accommodation team can help you identify landlords to contact but it doesn't arrange this accommodation for you - your contract is directly with the landlord, not with the University.
If you want to look for a place to live after you arrive, or if you make a late application, you may need to book temporary accommodation in the area for your first few nights.
If you check the internet for hotels and guest houses in Middlesbrough this will bring up a range of different options for you.
Living close to the University will greatly benefit your studies and your student experience.
We recommend that you choose to live in Middlesbrough, or as nearby as possible.
Some cities in the North East of England, like Leeds and Newcastle, are up to two hours travelling time away from the University campus.
We do not recommend you live as far away as that during your studies at Teesside University.
Visit our accommodation section for further details on our accommodation options

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/studentlife.cfm:
Teesside is a safe and friendly place where you will soon feel at home.
On campus, we have superb facilities for sport and wellbeing.
Whether you are an elite athlete or you just want to try a new sport - you will find what you're looking for here.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/studentview.cfm:
Teesside is innovative with excellent teaching, and a diverse culture putting students at the heart of everything.
The highlight of my student experience has been realising how far I’ve come, something I couldn’t see at the beginning of my studies.
I’ve developed skills I never thought I would, from technical tools to problem-solving and critical thinking.
I was a bit nervous about coming as an international student initially, but Teesside has a good mix of cultures which made me more comfortable.
I would recommend it to anyone who is thinking of studying here – come and have a great experience.
There is no better place than Teesside for the campus and student satisfaction.
The tutors were very encouraging and always there to support me to create work that felt true to my values and creative voice.
The interdisciplinary nature of the course ensures that each student attains their individual learning outcome.
Moving from my home country to the UK and adjusting to a new culture while managing my studies at Teesside University has been a significant journey of growth.
I developed critical, technical and professional skills, which allowed me to apply what I learned effectively.
This combination appealed to me as it aligns perfectly with my career aspirations.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/travelling.cfm:
Teesside is a safe and friendly place where you will soon feel at home
To get your studies at Teesside off to the best possible start, we can meet you at the airport and take you to your accommodation - for free.
Our meet and greet service
As you prepare to study in the UK, here are some top tips from Border Force (part of the UK Home Office) to make sure you have everything you need for a smooth arrival.
Teesside University is a ten minute walk from Middlesbrough's main train and bus stations.
We are well located for you to explore historic towns, major cities, typically British villages, and some of the most beautiful coast and countryside in the UK.
In one hour or less by public transport you can reach historic cities such as York and Durham, coastal towns including Saltburn and Whitby, and the North Yorkshire Moors and Cleveland Way National Trail.
Reach Newcastle and Leeds in under two hours, and London, Manchester and Edinburgh in less than 2.5 hours.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/meet.cfm:
Our friendly team collects our new international students from Newcastle International Airport and Teesside International Airport and transports you to our Middlesbrough Campus Heart.
Our free collections service runs in January, May and September from Newcastle and Teesside airports.
Students who are new to Teesside University are eligible for one of three forms of collection.
Please make sure that you can move or carry your luggage yourself.
For arrivals in all circumstances students must book collection five working days prior to arrival.
The service is only available during the advertised period for each form of collection.
Please contact us at meetandgreet@tees.ac.uk with any queries regarding your arrival for meet and greet.
For arrivals in September 2025, the university is pleased to offer a collections service from Newcastle Airport and Teesside airport.
This is a coach service from Newcastle airport only .
Our friendly team will meet you at the airport and will guide you to a coach that will take you to Teesside.
When you arrive to our Middlesbrough campus, staff will be on hand to greet you on campus and support you with onward travel to your accommodation.
This is a taxi service from Newcastle and Teesside airports , supported by a dedicated service.
Staff will be on hand to greet you on campus and support you with onward travel to your accommodation.
This service provides a free transfer from Newcastle and Teesside airports from Monday 15 September to Tuesday 30 September .
Students taking an international transfer will be taken to our Middlesbrough campus heart.
Students are not eligible for a campus greeter under the International Transfer Service.
There are two coach departures from Newcastle airport each day throughout the Meet and Greet period and coaches are scheduled to provide students with time to collect keys and access accommodation on arrival to Middlesbrough.
Students arriving to Teesside are transported by taxi or car to our Middlesbrough campus.
The last daily collection from Teesside airport is at 3.30pm to provide enough students with time to travel to Middlesbrough, collect keys and access accommodation.
Staff at Middlesbrough are on hand to support with your onward travel and key collection.
There are many flight options for arriving to Newcastle and our friendly team will provide advice depending on when you arrive.
The flights that arrive closest to our departure times are:
If you arrive on other flights, you are still welcome on the Meet and Greet service.
Please contact our team for further information meetandgreet@tees.ac.uk .
Teesside Airport has regular arrivals from Amsterdam's Schiphol airport and many students will transfer through Amsterdam Schiphol when travelling to Teesside.
Teesside Airport also provides a speedy arrival experience and is just twenty minutes from campus by car.
Arrivals information Teesside Airport
We collect students from Teesside airport on demand, up until 3.30pm.
The best flight to arrive on when travelling to Teesside airport is the KLM flight arriving from Amsterdam at 9.30am.
Please see the Meet and Greet Offer section.
Arrival dates are only advertised for the next session and an expression of interest form is available prior to these being opened for booking.
Newcastle Airport Our team will collect you from Newcastle Airport and transfer you to Teesside.
Collections operate for 6 hours every day during the airport meet and greet, with the last coach leaving the airport at 2.30pm.
During the campus meet and greet period, students are eligible for a transfer to Middlesbrough to be greeted by staff until 2.30pm.
If you arrive after the 2.30pm departure time please book an airport hotel and transfer to Teesside the following day.
Teesside Airport Our team arranges collection from Teesside airport on demand up to 3.30pm each day.
Students arriving on flights after 3.30pm will need to book a hotel for overnight stays.
If this hotel is in Middlesbrough, please contact the Meet and Greet team for further advice.
Newcastle Airport There are a number of hotels available at Newcastle airport where you would be able to book a room, and it is also possible to take the Metro into Newcastle city and arrange accommodation at a hotel or hostel in the city centre.
You will not be able to stay overnight in the airport itself, so if you arrive late, please be sure to book accommodation for your arrival.
Teesside Airport It is not possible to stay at Teesside airport overnight.
Students arriving late will need to arrange hotel accommodation.
If the hotel is in Middlesbrough, please contact the Meet and Greet team for further advice.
Our Meet and Greet service operates from Newcastle and Teesside airports, so we are only able to collect students who arrive at Newcastle or Teesside airport.
It is possible to book a short haul flight from Heathrow to Newcastle and book onto meet and greet on one of the advertised days.
Alternatively, you can book your own transit from Heathrow using public transport.
There are excellent rail and bus links from London to Middlesbrough.
Please contact the Meet and Greet team if you have any queries.
We are only able to collect students during the advertised Meet and Greet period.
If you arrive outside of this time, you will need to make your own arrangements to travel to Middlesbrough.
You can find out more about travelling to Middlesbrough independently on our Travelling to Teesside page .
You will need to take two trains.
The first is the Metro, which is a train that runs through all of Newcastle, Gateshead, and Sunderland.
The second is a train on the UK national network that will transport you to Middlesbrough.
To make your journey;
Journey from Newcastle Airport to Middlesbrough The journey from Newcastle Airport to Middlesbrough using public transport will cost between £20 - £30, but prices are subject to change, so please budget for this.
It will take between two and two and a half hours to complete the transit inclusive of waiting at train stations.
Journey to Middlesbrough from Teesside Airport If you arrive to Teesside airport outside the Meet and Greet period, it is recommended that you book a taxi transfer in the airport, as this is the fastest way to get to our Middlesbrough campus.
A bus service and flex-bus service is available from the airport.
Please see Teesside International Airport website for more details
Please be aware of any time differences and that telephone calls or emails outside of UK business hours will only be responded to the next working day (UK time).
If you have any enquiries about our meet and greet service, please contact meetandgreet@tees.ac.uk .
It can take up to five working days for a response due to high demand.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/summer_abroad.cfm:
In 2025, students will have the opportunity to select one of six programmes taking place in either Malaysia, India, France, Czechia or Brazil.
Our Summer Abroad programmes and funding are available to current students including final year students enrolled on a Bachelor.
Master’s or PhD programme on Middlesbrough or Darlington Campus.
Students from the London campus should contact TUGlobal before applying to the programmes.
Online students and students studying for a short course are not eligible.
Each programme has its own fees, please check each destination for more information.
Fees include transportation, airport transfer, academic programme, accommodation, cultural activities, and other activities related to the programme (unless otherwise specified).
Personal expenses, visa, and extra costs such as vaccination are not included.
Students from a disadvantaged Background and meeting at least one of the criteria by the Turing Scheme will be offered the Disadvantaged Background Fee:
Join an online drop-in session to speak with the TU Global team.
Available online every Wednesday 1pm-4pm throughout February and March 2025.
Join now
Contact us to book a 1-2-1 appointment at TUGlobal@tees.ac.uk How to apply Applications will be reviewed and graded based on your replies to the 'Personal Statement' section.
You can apply for more than one destination.
You can prepare your personal statement in advance.
Personal statement questions include: Why do you wish to take part in the Summer Abroad programme?
How do you think this experience will develop you professionally and personally?
Why do you think you would be a good Teesside University ambassador while abroad?
Application deadline: Sunday 16 March 2025 5.00pm (UK Time) Pre-selected applicants will be invited for an interview to discuss their application by the end of March.
Details of the interviews will be sent to the pre-selected students.
Successful applicants will be contacted after the interviews.
Apply directly via the link on the destination page.
Successful applicants will be required to pay a £100 deposit to confirm their place.
Contact us at TUGlobal@tees.ac.uk for alternative application formats
Applications will be reviewed and graded based on your replies to the 'Personal Statement' section.
Personal statement questions include:
Pre-selected applicants will be invited for an interview to discuss their application by the end of March.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/isbresponse.cfm:
At Teesside University, we are committed to enhancing your student experience.
The ISB survey enables us to gain valuable insights into the experiences of our international students, allowing us to identify our strengths and areas for improvement in ways that are important to you.
Here's how we transformed your feedback from the ISB survey into meaningful change.
We organised a series of events designed to foster meaningful connections, both socially and academically.
Check out Student Life Events for scheduling details
The International Student Barometer Survey will open for 2025 this autumn.
We will contact international students by email with details closer to the time.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/scholarships.cfm:
Find out if you are eligible to receive additional funding
Teesside University offers a wide range of scholarships to International students (including EU students who pay international fees).
To find out if you are eligible, select the dropdown menu for more information.
This prestigious scholarship recognises applications from outstanding students who can demonstrate their skills and commitment to becoming future global leaders.
A one-off payment of £7,000 is allocated as a fee waiver in the first year of study.
More about the Vice Chancellor's Scholarship
Teesside University Advance allows eligible undergraduate students to loan an Apple iPad with Office 365 and a compatible keyboard, plus £100 credit each academic year to buy books and other learning resources.
More about Teesside University Advance, including eligibility criteria
If you are an undergraduate international fee-paying student at Teesside University and wish to progress to postgraduate study, or if you complete a master's with us and progress a new postgraduate programme, you are eligible for a £1,000 alumni scholarship .
You will only receive the bonus if you apply directly to us and don't use an agent and the £1,000 is awarded as a discount on your first-year fees for the next programme.
Study level: Postgraduate Who can apply: International fee-paying students.
More information: studentlife@tees.ac.uk
You may be eligible for £7,000 as a fee waiver for international students.
More about the EU Scholarship
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, Teesside University is offering three scholarships, each of £10,000, to students from an eligible country applying for a postgraduate course.
More about British Council GREAT Scholarships
Teesside University offers a range of scholarships for eligible international students who demonstrate academic excellence in their application.
The aim of these scholarships is to support students who receive the highest grades prior to joining the University.
The Scholarship value is £2,000 in your first full academic year of study (all successful applicants on a foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate programme).
Applicants on a foundation/pathway programme delivered at Teesside University International Study Centre are not eligible for the scholarship, but will be considered for the scholarship on progression to a full degree programme at Teesside University.
The scholarship is allocated as a fee waiver and will be allocated to a small number of applicants.
More about the Global Excellence Scholarship
Teesside University offers a range of scholarships to support eligible students coming to study at the University from China.
The China Bursary Scholarship value is £1,000 in your first full academic year of study (all successful applicants on a foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate programme).
The scholarship is allocated as a fee waiver.
More about the China Bursary Scholarship
The China Merit Scholarship value is £3,000 in your first full academic year of study (all successful applicants on a foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate programme).
More about the China Merit Scholarship
The aim of these scholarships is to support students who demonstrate the highest potential prior to joining University.
The Africa Excellence Scholarship value is £2,000 in your first full academic year of study (all successful applicants on a foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate programme).
More about the Africa Excellence Scholarship
The ASEAN Excellence Scholarship value is £2,000 in your first full academic year of study (all successful applicants on a foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate programme).
More about the ASEAN Excellence Scholarship
Funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations, scholarship recipients are personally selected by British Embassies and High Commissions throughout the world.
Chevening offers a unique opportunity for future leaders, influencers, and decision-makers from all over the world to develop professionally and academically, network extensively, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships with the UK.
Study level: Postgraduate master’s programmes Who can apply: International (non-European Union) students More about Chevening Scholarship, UK government’s  international awards scheme
The UK government provides a range of fees and financial support for non-UK trainee teachers.
This includes scholarships, bursaries and funding options which help non-UK trainee teachers to fund their studies in the UK.
Please note the eligibility criteria and application process for the scholarship, bursary or support you are applying for, as this will differ for each scheme.
Teesside University is not responsible to selecting eligible students; any query on applications submitted must be made directly to the funding provider.
More information on the fees and financial support for non-UK trainee teachers

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/applying_to_arriving_overview.cfm:
You've decided which programme you would like to study.
Now it's time to apply.
In this section, we explain the process, from applying to arriving, in five steps.
Once you have applied for your course, the University processes your application and considers if you can be offered a place.
We will send you an offer by email - or a rejection if you do not meet the entry criteria.
If you receive a conditional offer, you must then send evidence to support your application.
This could include evidence of your English level, or an academic requirement such as transcripts or mark sheets.
You can submit these through the overseas office, agent, or directly to the university.
Once you have met these conditions, you should pay your deposit.
We send you details of how to pay your deposit with your offer letter.
Our Pre-Departure Guide is a useful booklet that aims to answer all your questions about applying to Teesside University, travelling to the UK and settling into your new student life in Middlesbrough.
This detailed guide covers how to apply for your CAS and visa, what to pack, getting through UK customs, travelling to the UK, current Coronavirus guidance in the UK, what to expect on campus, and some of the cultural, and social norms you may experience.
It also contains helpful checklists you can use and links to further information on many related subjects.
Offer holders can login to the Information Hub prior to arrival.
Access the Information Hub

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/howtoapply.cfm:
You've decided which course you'd like to study - now it's time to apply.
Here's how.
Visit UCAS and Register for, or Sign in to (if you have already set up your username and password) your UCAS Hub to begin your UCAS application.
You will find step-by-step guidance about the application process on the UCAS website .
Alternatively, if you would like to apply directly to the University for a full-time undergraduate course please complete our online admissions form, which will be processed by our international applications team.
Check the course page for course availability and entry requirements before starting your application.
View courses Apply for courses
Alternatively you can apply through one of our local representative or offices in your country.
You can find contact details and more information within the country-specific pages.
Country-specific information
If you can't find the information you need about admissions, entry requirements, applications and fee status, contact our enquiries team.
T: +44 (0)1642 738900 E: internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/howtoapplypg.cfm:
You have a number of ways to apply for your chosen course.
Apply online You can apply online.
Simply select the course you want to study and click on 'Apply online'.
Please make sure that you have scanned your relevant documents (for example, your degree certificate and transcripts) so that you can upload them along with your application.
View our postgraduate programmes
In your country Alternatively you can apply through a representative or an in-country Teesside University office.
Please look at your country webpage for the relevant details.
If you can't find the information you need about admissions, entry requirements, applications and fee status, contact our International Admissions.
T: +44 (0) 1642 843103 E: international.admissions@tees.ac.uk Academic Technology Approval Scheme The UK government introduced the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) for international students wanting to study a taught master's or research programme in a range of scientific subjects.
Most Teesside master's programmes don't need an ATAS certificate - your offer letter will confirm whether you need to apply for one.
If you do, you will need to complete and submit a short, straightforward online form.
You won't be charged a fee.
You will need your ATAS clearance certificate before you apply for a visa - or an extension of stay if you are already in the UK (for example if you are moving from undergraduate studies to a master's or PhD in a subject covered by the ATAS provisions).
Having an ATAS clearance certificate won't guarantee that you will be issued with an entry clearance or that your leave will be extended.
You will still have to meet the other immigration requirements.
More on the Foreign and Commonwealth Office website
The UK government introduced the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) for international students wanting to study a taught master's or research programme in a range of scientific subjects.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/application_deadlines.cfm:
We recommend that you accept your offer and pay your deposit as soon as possible by the date shown on your offer letter.
You can accept your offer and pay a deposit after the date on shown on your offer letter, however, if the University reaches capacity on certain course before you have done this then we reserve the right to close the course early.
Below are the dates by which we need to have received your offer acceptance, deposit payments, and documents to meet your offer conditions.
We strongly advise that you meet your offer conditions as soon as possible, rather than close to the above deadlines Teesside University may not consider items received after these deadlines, although can if there are spaces available once the on-time applications have been considered.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/course_status.cfm:
When you click the apply link on certain course pages, you may see that the course is suspended – meaning that no new applications are being accepted at this time.
We have a limited number of places on each course, and once we have received a sufficient number of applications to meet the course quota, we may suspend the course and stop accepting new applications.
If you see your course has been suspended after we have received your application, but before you receive a decision, don’t worry.
Your application will still be considered, and you may still receive an offer.
If we receive your application after a course is suspended, you will not be made an offer due to the course being full.
Suspended courses are subject to review and may re-open.
You may wish to check the course page again in a few weeks, in case places have become available and the course has re-opened to new applications.
Closed courses have been permanently closed for the next intake, and are not accepting new applications.
We close courses once there are sufficient offer holders to meet the course quota and fill the limited number of places.
Applications received after a course is closed will not be made an offer due to the course being full.
Once a course is closed, it will not be re-opened for that intake, so in this case, you will need to apply for a different intake instead.
Some of our courses operate a ‘gathered field’.
These courses have very limited places, and applicants will be selected for an interview before they are considered for an offer.
Following the interview, those applicants with the highest scores will receive an offer for their chosen intake, or a deferred offer for a later intake.
Applicants with the lowest scores will be unsuccessful.
Some applicants will join a waiting list (the gathered field).
Applicants on the waiting list may be offered a place on the course if one become available.
This would happen if an offer holder does not take up a place or where the course is able to increase its cohort size.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/qualification_verification.cfm:
As part of the international admissions process for the January 2023 intake and beyond, you will need to verify your academic qualifications.
You can complete this step either by using the University’s Qualification Check portal , or by using another accepted verification method to meet this offer condition.
These are the options available to you:
You can pay to complete a qualification check using the Qualification Check portal .
There is a small cost (usually £30.00) to complete this process.
Once the verification is complete, we will be able to see the outcome of your check, and you will automatically receive an ‘ImVerified wallet’ which digitally stores your qualification verifications.
This can be shared with all future employers or any other Universities to which you apply.
Download step by step instructions on how to complete the check
Our Teesside University Regional Office teams in China, South Asia, South East Asia, Pakistan and West Africa may be able to help you to verify your qualifications.
There are a number of different ways that they can complete this process, depending on the type of qualification you need to verify.
See the full details of the verification methods , or contact the teams directly to find out more.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/fees_paying.cfm:
The University's online payment facility is the most secure and the fastest way of making and receiving payments.
Make a payment online
Terms and conditions for online payments
If you are unable to make an online payment to the University, Flywire is the next best option.
Teesside University has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
Make your education payments safely and securely through our online payment portal in your home currency and local payment methods.
Millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
Flywire allows you to benefit from:
Payment via our online payment portal is the university's accepted method of payment.
Refunds made via Flywire are fast, secure and trackable.
Pay in your local currency
We do not advise making a payment by bank transfer.
This is because:
The University is unable to accept payments made by cash or cheque.
If you would like to talk us about your payment options, please contact our International Enquiries team, we will be happy to help.
T: +44 (0) 1642 738900 E: internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk
To Live Chat with our International Enquiries team select the Live Chat button.
Further payment information
If you are funding your own study, you must pay a deposit before you get a CAS, Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies, which you need to apply for a Student Visa.
We will let you know how much you need to pay as a deposit in your conditional offer.
If you are refused a visa, your deposit will be refunded.
Refund information
Please note that paying a deposit does not secure you a place at the University.
Before we can give you a CAS, Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies, we must have confirmation from your sponsor that they will pay your fees.
You must bring your original copy of this letter with you when you enrol.
It is important to note that if your sponsor doesn't pay, you the student becomes liable for that debt.
Pay your deposit and choose 'Make a general fee payment/payment on account'.
If a Pre-Sessional English condition is included in your offer and you are due to take up a place on a Pre-Sessional English course, Teesside University requires you to pay the Pre-Sessional English course fee in full and a main course deposit to assist you in getting a visa.
These payments should reach the University at least three weeks prior to the start date of the Pre-Sessional English course to allow sufficient time for your updated offer letter to be issued and your visa application processed.
You can only request University accommodation if you have received an Unconditional Firm or Conditional Firm Offer from Teesside University for the upcoming academic year.
More information on the steps you must take to obtain a refund
Please see our fees section for more information on payment terms and discounts.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/immigration.cfm:
Step-by-step information on the Student Visa and CAS application process at Teesside University.
If you intend to come to the UK to study, you should first check if you will need a visa.
Check if you need a visa
The Student Visa is for people coming to the UK for post‐16 education.
You can make a Student Visa application from your home country or, when eligible, from within the UK.
Applications for a Student Visa are made under the Points‐Based System.
The immigration rules state that you must meet the following points requirement under the Student Visa route:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-application-for-uk-visa-as-tier-4-student
Plus
Example Total Course Fee £17,000 Example Deposit Paid: £4,000 Example Remaining Fee: £13,000 Example Course Duration: 12 months Living Costs: (£1,136 per month, for a maximum of 9 months): £10,244 EXAMPLE TOTAL AMOUNT REQUIRED TO SHOW IN BANK ACCOUNT FOR CONSECUTIVE 28 DAY PERIOD: £13,000 + £10,244 = £23,244
If you are studying  a course that is six months or longer, or a pre‐sessional English course that is less than six months, you will be able to come to the UK up to one month before the start date of your course.
If you are studying  a course that is less than six months and is not a course to prepare you for study, you will be able to come to the UK up to seven days before the start date of your course.
Your course start date is the date given to you by your sponsor.
This will be stated on your CAS
The table below explains the length of time a Student Route student can come to the UK for:
Your CAS will include the start and end dates of your course.
A course is considered to be 12 months long if it lasts a full calendar year.
When you receive your new visa, you should check that you have been granted the correct period of leave.
If you have applied for your Student Visa overseas and you believe there is an error, please contact the International Advice Service on International@tees.ac.uk
We recommend wherever possible that you have any error corrected prior to travelling to the UK.
However, if this is not possible the International Advice Service can assist you to have this corrected when you arrive in the UK.
If you intend to come to the UK to study, you should first check if you will need a visa and the visa type.
Most overseas-based students will usually have to apply for a Student visa in order to come to the UK to study a course.
Complete your information

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/stud/international_graduate_route.cfm:
The Graduate Visa is a visa immigration category that is available to eligible international graduates following successful completion of a course at undergraduate level or above.
The Graduate Visa gives international graduates permission to stay in the UK for at least two years after successfully completing a degree level or above course in the UK (three years for graduates with a PhD/ doctoral qualification).* You must be inside the UK when you apply and you must meet all UKVI eligibility criteria in place at the point of application.
The Graduate route provides an opportunity for international students who have been awarded their degree to stay in the UK and work, or look for work, at any skill level for two years, or three years for doctoral students.
The Graduate route is an unsponsored route, meaning you do not need a job offer to apply for the route.
You will be able to work flexibly, switch jobs and develop your career in the UK as required.
The Graduate route is available to international students, who have completed a degree at undergraduate level or above at a Higher Education Provider with a track record of compliance, and who have a valid Tier 4 or Student visa at the time of application.
You will need to have completed the entirety of your course in the UK as a student, apart from permitted study abroad programmes or remote study due to COVID-19, for which specific concessions have been agreed.
You must ensure that you meet the full UKVI eligibility criteria before you apply.
The cost to apply to the Graduate route is £822.00 (for both two and three-year Graduate route applications).
You will also need to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge as part of your application.
This gives you access to the UK's National Health Service on generally the same basis as a UK permanent resident.
The Immigration Health Surcharge cost is currently £1035 per year, based on the length of leave you are granted and the full amount needs to be paid when applying.
Dependants will also be required to pay the same visa application fee and the Immigration Health Surcharge fee at the point of application.
The route does not require you to show funds or finance, and you do not need to demonstrate English language ability when applying, as you will have already proved English language ability by successfully completing your degree at a UK university.
You must ensure that you meet all UKVI eligibility criteria for the Graduate route before applying.
This includes:
You must ensure that you meet all UKVI eligibility criteria for the Graduate Visa before applying and you must ensure that you adhere to the immigration conditions of the Graduate Visa.
Shortly after your award is confirmed, Teesside University will notify UKVI of your successful course completion.
You will receive notification that this has been made and you should not apply for the Graduate route until you receive this notification.
A successful course completion report is only made to UKVI where you meet the criteria for our report to be made, including that you hold a valid Student visa at the time of the award.
During results release, we are working through a large volume of reports to make to UKVI therefore please await our notification.
If you have not received confirmation from us after 7 days since your award was confirmed, please contact LGSComplianceUKVI@tees.ac.uk .
The University is unable to report your successful course completion for the purpose of the Graduate Route until your results have been to an Assessment Board and your award has been officially confirmed.
Please refer to Appendix Graduate GR 4.2 and GR 4.3 in terms of eligibility criteria for the Graduate route, in particular that the University must have notified the Home Office of successful course completion by the date of the Graduate route visa application submission.
GR 4.2.
The applicant must have successfully completed the course of study which was undertaken during their last grant of permission to study on the Student route (where the applicant was allowed to change their course of study without applying for further permission as a Student, this requirement only applies to the course to which they changed).
GR 4.3.
The student sponsor must have notified the Home Office, by the date of application, that the applicant has successfully completed the course of study in GR 4.2.
The University will only report successful course completion to UKVI where your student visa has not yet expired.
If you have applied for leave in another immigration category (such as Further Leave to Remain), the University will not make a successful course completion report to UKVI.
We suggest you seek external immigration advice if you are making plans to apply for leave to remain in the UK.
You are able to download a proof of award letter from your E-Vision account and will also receive your final certificate.
Where we have not made a course completion notification to UKVI, UKVI do contact institutions directly and if they do, we can confirm your date of award, and that the report was not made as your Student visa had already expired.
The Graduate Route is an unsponsored visa route and therefore the University is unable to support you with the application process.
You should ensure you fully understand the eligibility criteria of the route before you apply.
As the route is unsponsored, the University cannot support you with the next steps if your Graduate route visa is refused.
If your visa was refused on the basis that the University had not notified UKVI of your successful course completion, this is because you did not meet the necessary reporting criteria for us to notify UKVI (for example, if your award was dated after your Student visa expiry date).
If you require confirmation of the reason, please contact LGSComplianceUKVI@tees.ac.uk .
You will have access to your Proof of Award letter which confirms your award date.
You must follow the instructions given by the Home Office in your visa refusal letter, and seek external immigration advice if necessary.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/already.cfm:
If you intend to make a Student Visa application from inside the UK you should contact the International Advice Service for initial advice by email: International@tees.ac.uk .
You will be designated an International Student Adviser who will liaise with you via email and will arrange an appointment with you, as required.
There are a number of things to consider if you intend to make a visa application from inside the UK: Your current visa type must be appropriate to extend/ switch Your new course must start within 28 days of the expiry of your current visa You must have successfully completed your previous course of study (unless you meet any of the UKVI Academic Progression requirement exemptions)
					If you currently hold a Tier 4 Visa or Student Visa, you must meet the Academic Progression requirement to allow an extension application from inside the UK.
If you currently hold a Tier 4 Visa or Student Visa, you will need to consider the type of institution that sponsors your current visa.
If you hold an unconditional offer and wish to make a Student Visa application in the UK to study at Teesside University, you should contact the International Advice Service for initial advice by email: International@tees.ac.uk .
Please contact the International Advice Service 6-8 weeks before your visa expiry date to allow yourself enough time to gather the supporting documents required and to apply for your new CAS/ ATAS if required.
Your application for permission to stay must be made no more than 3 months before the start date of the course as specified on your CAS.
International Advice Service Operational Hours Monday- Thursday 8.30am-5.00pm, Friday 8.30am-4.30pm
In most cases, you must complete the Student Visa application form .
You must first set up an account online and complete the application form in English.
You should follow the instructions to download the UK Immigration ID app and verify your identity using the app if this is possible.
If you are not able to use the app you will need to attend a UKVCAS biometric appointment at a Service Point (additional charges may apply).
If you are already inside the UK with valid immigration permission or you are a continuing student, you will need to contact the International Advice Service before a CAS can be assigned.
They provide immigration advice  for applicants eligible to apply in-country.
You can contact the International Advice Service for initial advice by email: International@tees.ac.uk
If you have been living in the UK with valid immigration permission for 12 months or more on the date of the visa application, you will automatically meet the financial requirement and you do not need to provide any evidence of maintenance funds.
If you have been living in the UK with immigration permission for less than 12 months, you must provide evidence of maintenance funds.
If you are required to provide evidence of maintenance funds
You must show that you have money for living costs for each month of your course up to a maximum of 9 months.
The total living costs you must demonstrate should be based on the course dates listed on your new CAS, and be up to a maximum of 9 months.
If you are studying a course at the Teesside University Middlesbrough Campus (outside London), the current living costs are £1,136.00 per month (£10,224 max).
If you are studying a course at the Teesside University London Campus (in London), the current living costs are £1,483 per month (£13,347 max).
You must also show any unpaid course tuition fees listed on your new CAS for the required period and in the required format.
If you are permitted to have dependants with you to the UK, each dependant must show that they have £680 for each month of immigration permission they will be granted.
This is up to a maximum of 9 months (£6,120).
If you are unsure if you can include a dependant in your application, please contact: International@tees.ac.uk.
Acceptable evidence:
You can show you have enough money using:
Non-acceptable evidence:
The following are not accepted as evidence to show you have the required amount of money:
Financial sponsorship is where an applicant is given money to cover some or all of their course fees or living costs, or both.
If your official financial sponsorship is not recorded on your CAS you'll need to show a letter of confirmation from the official financial sponsor.
If you are not sure ask your sponsor.
The letter must show:
If you are using a student loan:
A student loan can be provided by:
Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) or, in the case of overseas accounts, the official regulatory body for the country the institution is in and where the money is held.
Your student loan letter should:
If you are using your own money (or that of a parent or partner):
Cash can be held in a:
Cash must be in an account that allows you immediate access.
Funds must have been acquired legally and if you were in the UK you must not have earned them when working illegally.
If you're using your own money, or that of a parent or partner you'll need to show you have the required amount of money in an account.
You can provide:
Your evidence should:
The evidence you provide must demonstrate that the required funds have been held for a period of consecutive 28 days.
The bank statement must not be more than 31 days old on the day you submit your visa application.
The UKVI may conduct verification checks with your bank.
If they are unable to verify the funds your application may be refused.
You, or the account holder (such as your parents or partner), must have control of the funds you are relying on.
Using money held by parent(s)/legal guardian(s):
If you are relying on money held by your parents(s)/legal guardian(s), you will need to provide one of the following official documents:
If you are relying on money held by your parents(s)/legal guardian, you must also show that your parent(s)/legal guardian have given their permission for you to use this money.
You will need to provide: a letter from your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) which confirms:
Money in other currencies
If your money is held in a foreign currency this will be converted into pound sterling (£) using the spot exchange rate on OANDA for the date of the application.
Full details can be found using the links below: UKVI Student and Child Route guidance UKVI Financial evidence for Student and Child Student route applicants UKVI Immigration Rules Appendix Finance
Full details can be found using the links below:
UKVI Student and Child Route guidance UKVI Financial evidence for Student and Child Student route applicants UKVI Immigration Rules Appendix Finance
You should ensure you have an appointment booked with your designated International Student Adviser before you submit your application.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/credibility.cfm:
Find out more about what happens at a credibility interview and how you will need to prepare.
As part of the Student Route application process, some  students may be asked to participate in a credibility interview.
This can  happen whether you are applying from within the UK or from overseas.
The purpose of the interview is for UKVI (UK Visas and  Immigration) to ensure that you are a genuine student and that  you have credible reasons for coming to the UK to study a programme in a  university.
The interview will probably take  place at the Embassy or at the visa application centre where you apply.
You will be interviewed in person, on  the phone, or via video link by a visa officer from UKVI.
You will be asked to  talk in English about your reasons for coming to the UK and about your study  plans.
Your ability to converse in English will also be assessed as part of the  interview.
For this reason, it is very important  that you prepare carefully for the interview and think about how you will  answer the questions.
If you fail to attend the interview,  or if you do not answer the visa officer’s questions in sufficient detail, or  in a satisfactory level of English, you may be refused a visa.
Find out more here
The visa officer will ask you  questions which aim to check if you genuinely intend to be a student in the UK.
It is possible that the questions will focus on some of the following areas:
If you receive an invitation to attend a visa  interview, you should make sure you plan sufficient time to prepare and think  about your answers.
Do not underestimate the importance of answering your  questions in full detail and in good English.
If you prepare thoroughly, this  will also help you to feel calm and confident at the interview.
A good starting point for your preparation is for  you to review the information you include in your application and when you  apply to Teesside, we will send you a mandatory questionnaire to complete.
It asks you for  further information about your study plans and preparation, which helps us to consider  if we will sponsor you with a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies).
Reviewing the answers you provide to the mandatory questionnaire will help you with your  preparation for a credibility interview.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/outside.cfm:
Information to help you through the immigration and visa application process
If you are applying from outside the UK, you can apply online for a Student Visa.
This category is for students coming to the UK for post-16 education with an unconditional offer of a place on a course with a licensed sponsor.
You must ensure you apply with enough time to arrive in the UK before your course begins and be available to attend the International Welcome and Orientation Programme for all new international and EU students.
Please note that you must not make your Student visa application more than six months before the start date of your course as specified on your CAS, before you are issued with a CAS from the International Compliance Team, or before you meet the other immigration requirements and you must have all of the required supporting documents in your possession.
You will usually get a decision on your visa within 3 weeks of attending your appointment at the visa application centre or 3 weeks of submitting your application if you are using the UK Immigration: ID Check app.
Some countries offer a priority visa service for an additional fee.
You will need to check your visa application centre website for information on available priority services in your country.
Recent government changes announced 17 July 2023 now mean that many courses no longer allow you to bring dependants with you to the UK.
For example, if you are applying for permission to study a new postgraduate level course of 9 months or more at Teesside University, if the course start date is on or after 1 January 2024, the course must be a PhD or other doctoral qualification, or a research-based higher degree* unless you meet the eligibility requirements at ST31.1 (a) or STS31.1 (d) Immigration Rules.
A 'Research-based higher degree' is defined in the Immigration Rules and refers to a postgraduate programme which comprises a research component (including a requirement to produce original work), that is larger than any accompanying taught component when measured by student effort.
The immigration rules that set out when a Student is permitted to have dependants in the UK can be found at Appendix Student ST28.1- ST39.3 Immigration Rules
In most cases, you must complete the Student Visa application form online.
You should enter the name of the country in which you are making your application and confirm that you are able to attend an appointment at one of the visa application centres listed.
You will then be invited to begin the online application process.
You should prepare the following documents to submit with your visa application:
The translation must include all of the following information:
If you are applying with dependants, you may wish to contact the International Advice Service to seek further advice: International@tees.ac.uk.
See the UKVI Student Visa Guidance .
You will need to be in a position to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) for yourself and for any dependants.
The Immigration Health Surcharge is currently £776.00 per year, per person and is charged for the length of leave that you will be granted.
You will need to be in a position to pay the visa application of £490 (Standard Service) plus £490 for each dependant applying at the same time as you.
Priority and Premium Service may be available at an additional cost.
This fee will increase to £524.00 (Standard Service) from 09 April 2025.
If you are studying a course at the Teesside University Middlesbrough Campus (outside London), the current living costs are £1,136.00 per month (£10,224 if your course is 9 months or longer).
If you are studying a course at the Teesside University London Campus (in London), the current living costs are £1,483 per month (£13,347 if your course is 9 months or longer).
Evidence you need to provide
If you are using official financial sponsorship:
Please note, UKVI cannot accept an affidavit to evidence legal guardianship as these are only evidence that someone has made a sworn statement regarding a claimed relationship, and not evidence of that relationship by themselves.
You will either:
You will be told what you need to do when you apply.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/prepare.cfm:
How to apply for your accommodation and other things you will need to consider
When you get your visa, please let us know.
We will then send you a checklist to help you with all the remaining things you need to do.
You must accept a conditional or unconditional course place offer before you can apply for accommodation online.
When you have applied for your accommodation, don't forget to apply for our free Meet and Greet service.
You will be welcomed by one of our friendly student ambassadors when you arrive at either Durham Tees Valley or Newcastle International Airport and taken straight to your new home.
Book your meet and greet now
Middlesbrough is close to several airports and is wellâ€�connected by public transport.
There are a number of easy ways you can travel to Middlesbrough town centre.
More about travelling to Teesside
Online enrolment can be completed from anywhere in the world whether you are still in your home country or if you have arrived in the UK.
It should be completed as soon as possible after you have received your CAS.
You do not need to wait until have received your visa to complete this part of enrolment.
Download our step-by-step enrolment guide
In preparation for arriving in the UK, we want to ensure you have all the necessary information and resources to help you manage your eVisa and prove your immigration status online.
Watch the following videos to help you:
Share codes enable you to view and prove your immigration status online and you will need to use these to prove your right to study, work and rent in the UK.
To view and prove your immigration status online, you will need:
You will be able to view:
You may also view other information depending on your type of immigration permission.
A share code is a code you generate online to share your immigration status with others.
You can generate a share code to:
You can then share the code with the relevant party, along with your date of birth.
The share code will typically last between 30 and 90 days.
It is important to keep your UKVI account details up to date to avoid issues when proving your immigration status.
You should update your account if you've changed your:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/arrive.cfm:
Make sure you are well prepared and have all your documents ready, so that you can move through UK Border checks quickly and easily and have a good experience when you arrive.
The UK Border Force have created a 10 top tips document which we recommend you read.
You can download it here.
Here is some additional advice which will help to make your arrival in the airport simple and stress-free.
When you complete your landing card, write an address where you can be easily contacted while you are in the UK.
Keep all your documents in your hand luggage and have it ready to present to a Border Force officer before you arrive at the Passport Control area.
You will need to present paper copies - electronic copies are not acceptable.
First year students will need Admission/Offer/CAS letter(s).
Confirmation of payment/receipts for course and accommodation OR documentary evidence that you have sufficient funds to pay for these.
Returning students will need Student ID Card or Admission/Offer/CAS letter(s).
Biometric Residence Permits (BRPs) or evidence that you have continuing leave to remain as a student.
Leave to remain will normally be indicated on your visa; but if this is endorsed in a passport that has now expired,  you must also bring your old passport with you.
All returning students are advised to check their email accounts prior to travelling back to the United Kingdom for messages from the Home Office.
If you have received email notification that your Student leave has been cancelled/postponed, you are strongly advised not to travel and you must contact your nearest British Diplomatic mission immediately for help.
Please remember - even if you have arranged our free airport pick-up service, you will not be able to meet the representative from Teesside University until you have successfully passed through Passport Control and collected your luggage.
It is very important that you read the above advice and make sure you are organised and prepared for arrival at the airport by yourself.
Free meet and greet service for international students When you have applied for your accommodation, don't forget to apply for our free Meet and Greet service.
You will be welcomed by one of our friendly student ambassadors when you arrive at either Teesside International Airport or Newcastle International Airport and taken straight to your new home.
Book your meet and greet now Equality and diversity We welcome applications from every section of the community as part of our commitment to equality of opportunity within a diverse working and learning environment.
Welcome and orientation event The welcome and orientation event provides international students with an opportunity to find out more about what it's like to live and study in the UK.
It's a chance to meet other students from all over the world and will help you organise some of the things that are a priority for international students when you first arrive at Teesside.
We will post further details of the orientation programme here on our website closer to the date.
Leaving the UK If you hold a Police Registration  Certificate, you need to notify the police when you leave the UK for the last  time.
Opening a UK bank account It is important to open a bank account in the UK as soon as possible so that you are able to access your funds to pay for day to day expenses.
It will also be useful to have funds held within a UK bank account should at any point in the future you need to apply to extend your visa or switch into another immigration category.
In order to do this you will need to take certain information along to the bank of your choice.
For bank account appointments you will need: Passport including entry clearance vignette Biometric Residence Permit (BRP card) A letter of introduction showing your UK student details (bank letter), including the name of the UK Bank that you wish to use.
This can be printed off from your University e-Vision account after you have completed enrolment.
Registering with a doctor (general practitioner) There will be an opportunity to register with a local doctor (we call this a general practitioner or 'GP') at the welcome and orientation event.
However, you can also do this directly with a GP practice yourself once you are here.
As soon as you have a UK address you can use the  NHS website to find the closest GP to where you live.
When you have decided which GP you would like to register with, you will need to go there in person and complete the registration process.
Once you are registered with a GP, you will be able to access NHS Secondary Healthcare Services, although there will be services that you need to pay for, so always check.
The welcome and orientation event provides international students with an opportunity to find out more about what it's like to live and study in the UK.
If you hold a Police Registration  Certificate, you need to notify the police when you leave the UK for the last  time.
It is important to open a bank account in the UK as soon as possible so that you are able to access your funds to pay for day to day expenses.
For bank account appointments you will need:
There will be an opportunity to register with a local doctor (we call this a general practitioner or 'GP') at the welcome and orientation event.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/here.cfm:
The student advisers are here to support you with all aspects of welfare and  Student Visa advice.
Appointments can be made by calling in to the Student Life Building via email studentlife@tees.ac.uk .
More information about the International Advice Service .
Student Life Building Opening Hours Monday to Friday 8.00am-6.00pm International Advice Service Operational Hours Monday- Thursday 8.30am-5.00pm, Friday 8.30am-4.30pm English language café The English language café is a great place to meet new friends and improve your English language skills.
Student Life Building Opening Hours Monday to Friday 8.00am-6.00pm
The English language café is a great place to meet new friends and improve your English language skills.
From sport for beginners through to elite athletes, we have great facilities that all students can use.
Our sports membership scheme gives you access to all  the sporting facilities on campus and also some local sports providers off campus.
There are a range of services available to support you and enhance your time as a student.
The following web page provides links to areas such as careers advice, counselling, sport and well‐being, and international student advice.
We can provide you with support and advice on all health issues plus we offer services to improve your wellbeing.
You can get advice, support, jobs and pursue sports and hobbies with the Students' Union.
Find out more We’re always happy to listen to what kinds of events you would like to see, please e-mail internationalevents@tees.ac.uk with any recommendations.
We’re always happy to listen to what kinds of events you would like to see, please e-mail internationalevents@tees.ac.uk with any recommendations.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/orientation_programme.cfm:
Student Life, Middlesbrough campus
Welcome to Teesside University, we're excited to have you here.
We know that it can feel overwhelming when you first arrive somewhere new.
We will be hosting a welcome social where you will have the chance to meet other students and staff from across the university, find out a bit more about the services that we offer and the activities that you can participate in, and share a pizza with some new friends.
What are you waiting for?
Come along and tell us how you say hello
Register now

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/studentvisacompliance.cfm:
As an international student you are required to comply with Home Office immigration rules and the terms of your visa while you are studying at Teesside University.
Teesside University is required by the Home Office to comply with certain responsibilities and duties as a Student Sponsor.
UKVI Compliance Sponsored Students Policy

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/masters.cfm:
The Master’s degrees are offered as either a one-year intensive Master’s programme, or as a two-year programme which includes Advanced Practice.
The one-year programme is a great option for students who want to gain a traditional master's qualification, graduate and start on their career path within 12 months.
A two-year Master’s Degree with Advanced Practice offers you the chance to enhance your qualification by spending one semester completing an internship, research or study abroad experience.
A Master’s degree with Advance Practice will allow you to maximise your development opportunities by:
One of the following three options will be available to you;
Spend one semester working full-time in industry.
We have close links with a variety of local companies who will offer you the chance to develop your knowledge and professional skills in the workplace through an internship.
Although we cannot guarantee internships for students, we will provide you with practical support and advice on how to find and secure your own internship position.
A vocational internship is a great way to gain work experience and give your CV a competitive edge.
Develop your research and academic skills by undertaking a research internship within the University.
Experience working as part of a research team in an academic setting.
Ideal for those who are interested in a career in research or academia.
Participate in an academic exchange with one of our partner universities and experience study, student life and culture in a different environment.
This option offers a valuable life experience and further enhances your ability to adapt to working and living internationally.
Please note – the study abroad option will incur additional costs such as travel and accommodation.
You must also take responsibility for ensuring you have the appropriate visa for study outside the UK, where relevant.
Find out about postgraduate courses starting in January
Learn more about postgraduate courses
More information on how to apply

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/athenaswan/index.cfm:
Teesside University is a bronze award member of the Athena Swan Charter, an equality mark that recognises good practice and a commitment to advancing gender equality in Higher Education.
Our commitment to gender equality
Teesside University is an institution which embraces diversity.
The Athena Swan Bronze award is the start of our journey and we will continue to to drive this agenda and set the highest possible standards for equality and diversity.
Teesside University has worked to embed the Athena Swan principles across all of its activity, striving to set the highest possible standards for equality and diversity
Explore the Athena Swan submissions and action plans from each school within Teesside University.
See how each school is striving for excellence in equality and diversity.
Teesside University  has a range of policies which support the Athena Swan principles.
Athena Swan is not something that applies to discrete groups.
It is important to realise that Athena Swan is relevant to everyone.
Get to know the dedicated groups of staff and students working together to promote gender equality and inclusivity at Teesside University.
athenaswan@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parents/why.cfm:
They expand their skills, knowledge, networks and job prospects.
Their time at university will shape their future and open doors to new opportunities.
And that's not all...
Higher education is an investment in the future.
At Teesside University, we make sure our students get the most out of their experience - developing confidence, personal skills, work experience and independence as well as gaining qualifications.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parents/choosing.cfm:
With thousands of courses at hundreds of institutions, how do you start to help them?
Here are some key considerations to think about.
Use our checklist to determine what is most important to your young person when selecting a university.
Universities offer student support in the form of scholarships and bursaries.
A scholarship is usually based on a student’s ability and a bursary is based on their background.
Amounts available differ but could include discounted course fees or accommodation costs or money towards travel expenses and books.
For some they will have to apply, for other others they may be invited to apply, and discounts are automatic if they’re eligible.
This information is available on university websites and can really help towards study and living costs, so always check what your young person could be eligible for.
Making new friends and trying out new activities are an important part of university life - see what's on offer at each university's Students' Union.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parents/applying.cfm:
Once your young person has chosen up to five courses and/or universities they would like to apply for, they apply online through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Use our interactive timeline to find out what your young person should be doing month by month, or read the information below to get an overview of the application process.
Download our 'Applying to university' timeline
UCAS opens early September for application submissions.
There are a number of deadlines, depending on your young person’s course and university choice.
15 October - application deadline for medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine and veterinary science courses, and all courses at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
Last Wednesday in January – application deadline for all courses except those with 15 October deadline.
Your young person’s school or college may set an earlier deadline to allow time for them to check their personal statement and attach a reference.
Download our UCAS checklist
The application form is split into sections:
Encourage your young person to make a start on their personal statement with our starter form.
Download your personal statement
Universities usually make their offers in UCAS tariff points, usually known as UCAS points.
They are a way of measuring the value of all post-16 qualifications such as A levels and BTECs.
The UCAS tariff gives a number to the possible grades your young person can achieve in each type of qualification.
Some courses may require that your young person has studied a particular subject at college, for example an engineering course might specify that an applicant has studied maths.
Other courses may ask for a certain number of tariff points in a subject, for example your young person needs to achieve 46 UCAS tariff points in chemistry.
At Teesside University we give equal consideration to all academic and vocational qualifications.
Your young person may also have skills we can consider like work experience or vocational training.
Don't be put off if they don't meet the exact entry requirements - encourage them to come and talk to us.
Once your young person has submitted their application, the universities they have applied to will contact them with a decision.
They can track their application progress and any offers using UCAS Hub, an online system.
Universities have until May to make an offer.
Your young person will receive one of the following responses.
Once your young person starts to receive offers, they need to respond in the following ways.
They may also be invited to attend for an interview for some courses and universities.
Visit the university interview section on our 'Applying to university' webpages to ensure you're ready to impress
Results day is in August.
This is when your young person receives their exam results.
They use UCAS Hub to check if they have met the entry requirements they need to achieve their offer.
If the conditions have been met, they will automatically be accepted by their first-choice university.
If they have missed out by just a couple of grades they may still be accepted – get in touch with the university as soon as possible to discuss options.
Clearing is a service that helps students without a university place to find a suitable vacancy at a university of their choice, depending on capacity and entry requirements.
It's available between July and September but tends to be used by most students after their exam results are published in August.
Extra is for students who have applied through UCAS and made five choices but aren't holding any offers.
In Extra, students can apply for any course with vacancies from mid-February to early July.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parents/countdown.cfm:
You've helped your young person choose the university they want to go to and the course they want to study.
You've given them ideas for their personal statement, guided them through their UCAS application, secured their finances and found them somewhere to live.
Thought that was everything?
Not quite...
Here is a list of things to consider before your young person starts university.
If your young person is bringing valuable items such as computer equipment, they are strongly advised to get appropriate insurance.
Most universities and private landlords only have insurance for the building and its contents, not personal possessions.
Your young person will need their own TV licence in most situations - although they may only need one for the house rather than each individual.
It depends on whether they have a separate or joint tenancy agreement.
Make sure your young person registers with a doctor before they arrive.
This also reassures you that they have access to medical attention if they become unwell.
Managing a student loan isn't easy.
Consider sitting down with your young person to work out how they will cover their living expenses once they've paid essentials like rent and utilities.
Check out apps such as Unidays and Student Beans that offer discounts and incentives across a range of shops and catering outlets.
Encourage your young person to take our interactive quiz to find out if they're a spender or a saver.
Take the quiz
Support  with planning of monthly finances with our budgeting planner.
Download our budgeting planner
Teesside University students can access Blackbullion, which gives independent advice on the financial reality of university life including top tips on budgeting and managing money.
A really helpful tool for your young person.
Each bank has different rates and incentives for students opening a student bank account.
Shop around with your young person to get the best offers.
Bear in mind that they need to open an account before they apply for their student loan, so they have somewhere for the money to go.
Your young person needs to bring items that aren't included in their rent - kitchen utensils and bedding need to be bought beforehand.
Some universities sell kitchen and bedding bundles that you can order ready for when you arrive.
Most universities offer part-time work opportunities for students.
These are normally advertised in the Students' Union.
Student ambassador schemes are another great way for your young person to earn money, fitting in a job around their studies and getting transferable skills to include in their CV.
You can find details of Teesside University's student ambassador scheme here.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/parents/teesside.cfm:
Is your young person eligible for an iPad, keyboard case, Future Facing Learning toolkit and up to £300 credit for learning resources?
Affordable accommodation right on campus.
Find about our accommodation
Study in our town-centre campus with £280m of recent investment.
Take a campus tour
Our student and library services offer a range of informal workshops to support your young person during their time at university.
Sessions include an introduction to  academic writing, critical thinking, how to reference, presentation skills workshops and lots more.
They can help your young person plan and structure their assignments and offer feedback once it's written.
We offer a generous funding package that can help towards your young persons study, travel or living costs.
Some are automatically awarded, others need to be applied for.
Our campus security team are responsible for ensuring a safe environment for your young person.
Based in the university library, they are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
Benefit from work placements, live projects, accredited courses.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/opendays:
Explore our courses, campus and facilities at one of our open days.
We're here to help you get to know us better.
Come along to a 90-minute campus visit to tour the campus and speak to support staff.
An open day is the perfect chance to explore your options and see if Teesside is right for you.
We love it here (of course), but it's important you experience it for yourself.
Get insights into the courses you're interested in and ask the questions that matter to you.
Discover what student life is really like straight from the people living it.
Take a guided tour of our friendly town-centre campus and see our industry-standard facilities in action.
Check out our affordable digs and remember, you're guaranteed a room if you apply on time.
Whether you're following a passion or want to try something new, find out how to get involved beyond the classroom.
Ask questions, and take your time - it's your day, your future.
We want our open day to be accessible for everyone.
If you are struggling to attend due to financial reasons, please get in touch to see how we can support you.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/schoolscolleges/post16_subjects.cfm:
08
Digital frontiers - creativity, technology and innovation
Journalist for a day
Script to screen
Discover nursing and midwifery
Discover optometry
Discover chiropractic, occupational therapy, sports therapy and physiotherapy
View all our Post  16 events
We support teachers and careers advisers to help their students progress to higher education.
Join our mailing list to be kept to up to date.
We've invested £280m in our friendly town campus in the heart of Middlesbrough.
Learn about student life here at Teesside - from mental health support and how to manage your money, to the best places in town and where to eat and drink.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/schoolscolleges/pre16.cfm:
Content coming soon

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/schoolscolleges/post16_teachers_advisers.cfm:
We are committed to ensuring teachers and advisers have the information and skills they need to support their students.
Our CPD activity shares curriculum insights, learning styles, resources and tools to manage your students’ transition to university.
" CPD activity delivered by the University has provided our teaching staff with valuable insights.
Interactions with academic staff have allowed us to enhance our teaching methodologies, ensuring that we can better prepare our students for the academic challenges of university.
" Carolyn Yule, Head of Sixth Form, Middlesbrough College
There are 19 events

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/schoolscolleges/widening_participation.cfm:
Teesside University is committed to promoting equality and diversity and supports those with disabilities or special educational needs before and during study with us.
If you, your child or a young person you work with has a specific support need and would like to find out more about the support we could provide, the resources available and how you access our service, please email studentrecruitment@tees.ac.uk .
We can also provide additional assistance to take part in any of our pre-entry activities, please let us know when you book, so we can discuss your requirements.
For example, we can arrange quiet space at open days, private tours and talks and follow-up resources and materials.
We provide support to students who are:
This list is not exhaustive.
The fees, funding and support available at university is sometimes a perceived barrier for young people from widening participation backgrounds.
We have a dedicated team of student advisers who can provide one-to-one information and advice relating to fees and financial support.
Find out more about funding
We are committed to supporting young people in care or leaving care to progress to higher education.
We offer a range of activities and support to looked-after children, care leavers and their foster carers, and social workers to help raise aspirations, provide information and support, and to encourage care leavers to reach their potential.
We will always prioritise a place for a young person in or leaving care.
We can also provide:
In addition to support for care leavers including the care leaver bursary, 52-week accommodation contracts and tailored support.
More about the Care leaver bursary
We welcome students from a diverse multicultural background and are committed to advancing opportunity, experience and outcomes helping students achieve their full potential.
We offer a range of higher education taster sessions which provide valuable insight into the options available at university.
In some cases, an individual's status can be complicated or prohibitive.
If you are a refugee or asylum seeker living in the UK, entering higher education can be complicated due to a number of factors, including immigration status, eligibility to study, previous qualifications and funding eligibility.
For advice on eligibility for higher education and how your qualifications compare to UK qualifications, we run a number of refugee and asylum seeker open days with the British Red Cross, and we also have staff at our open days who can provide guidance.
As a refugee or someone with humanitarian protection, you may be eligible to apply for student funding through the Student Loans Company.
Our financial advisers can help you understand your eligibility and make the application.
As an asylum seeker you would not be eligible for public funding and would therefore need to fund your own studies which is often prohibitive.
We have a limited number of scholarships available each year.
Find out more about scholarships sanctuary
To discuss any of the above, please contact the Student Recruitment team on studentrecruitment@tees.ac.uk .
We see you, looking at us.
Don't be shy.
Come and talk to us online or in person.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/animation_concept_art_&_visual_effects/ba_(hons)_2d_animation_and_stop_motion.cfm:
Apply now .
Typical entry requirements: 72 points We consider each application individually.
If you're unsure whether you meet the grades, call 01642 738400
Foundation year Work placement
Check out the work from our talented BA (Hons) 2D Animation and Stop Motion students.
Explore the full visual effects pipeline from previsualisation, motion design and technical animation, to effects, look development and compositing.
Develop a deep understanding of how to create cinematic environments, dynamic simulations, and complex visual sequences using industry-standard tools and workflows.
Engage with motion graphics through a creative lens, combining design skills with VFX techniques to produce compelling graphics for commercials, TV and immersive experiences.
Access cutting-edge facilities including a new digital sound stage, LED wall, immersive experience space and dedicated VFX studios equipped with industry-standard software and hardware.
Focus on a chosen specialism and build a portfolio that reflects your creative direction and professional goals.
Top reasons to study 2D animation and stop motion at Teesside Industry links: take part in Animex , our annual international animation and games festival featuring experts from Rockstar, ILM, Disney and Sony.
International acclaim: ranked 19th in the world in the Animation Career Review International Animation School Rankings 2024.
(Top 50 International Animation Colleges – formal degree.
195 colleges considered).
( tees.ac.uk/source ).
£2000 Accommodation Award: you may be eligible for £2,000 towards your accommodation fees if you live outside the TS postcode and are in your first year of study on a games or animation course.
( Find out more ).
SideFX recognition: this course has been officially certified by SideFX and the school is a member of the SideFX Certified Partner Programme in recognition of our knowledgeable instructors, high-quality student work, and efforts devoted to connecting students to industry.
ScreenSkills recognition: this course is recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK’s screen-based industries, and carries the ScreenSkills Select quality-mark, which indicates courses best suited to prepare students for a career in the screen industries.
Download pdf Order prospectus
Animation Principles
The principles of animation are the foundation stone for any animator.
Originally created by Disney, they have been used by generations of animators to create convincing animation across movies, TV series, games and commercials.
Fundamentals of 2D animation Learn the principles of 2D animation, using hand-drawn techniques to create animation exercises.
Fundamentals of 3D animation Explore the principles of 3D animation using industry standard techniques and software using a range of methods including the layered method and pose to pose.
Animation in context Delve into the history of animation and motion design, from its earliest beginnings to today’s diverse styles and applications.
This is a 30-credit module.
Art for Animation
Unlock the secrets of character creation, storyboarding, and environment sketching in traditional and digital drawing.
Traditional drawing skills Study life drawing and observational techniques, perspective and composition.
Digital drawing skills Explore image manipulation techniques using digital software and customising digital drawing tools.
Dive into character design, environmental creation and prop development.
Introduction to Stop Motion
Embark on a journey into the realm of stop-motion animation, looking at the history, methods, materials, and techniques.
Stop motion animation techniques Explore stop motion techniques including claymation, object animation, cut-out animation, puppetry and pixilation.
Lighting and camera setups Create captivating visuals through lighting and camera setups, and use capturing software to capture the essence of your creations.
Prop making Learn to craft tools and models that breathe life into your animations.
Visual Development for the Moving Image
When planning and visualising sequences for animation and live action, you need to understand the pre-production process and the tools and techniques you can use.
Cinematography and film language You are introduced to cinematography and learn about film language, shot composition, camera moves and lighting.
Character and storyboard development Develop your own visual interpretation of a script or narrative and produce a moving storyboard (animatic).
Digital compositing You are introduced to a range of compositing techniques for live-action and 3D computer-generated imagery, 2D and stop-motion animation, lighting and digital 2D painted backgrounds.
2D Animated Performance
Learn to create characters that connect with your intended audience and how to give life to your story’s landscapes.
2D animation techniques Develop your storytelling skills and animation principles to create strong sequences using industry-standard tools.
Acting and performance Explore acting theory, drawing insights from references and observations and giving life to animated characters.
Moviola
You work in a team to produce an animation or visual effects sequence based on an industry style brief.
Experience working in a production environment with industry input and feedback, and target specific production skills in your chosen field of study.
Professional Practice and Ethical AI Assisted Creativity
You get the opportunity to experiment in a specialist area of your choice in animation, games and visual effects.
Develop your independent learning skills and take ownership of your chosen direction through the assessment.
You also research professional roles related to your specialism, identifying the graduate skills you need and developing an online presence.
AI literacy improves employability, making you more competitive in the job market.
You also investigate the responsible use of AI in animation and visual effects, focusing on the benefits, risks and ethical concerns such as IP, copyright and consent.
Stop Motion
Master the methods, materials, techniques, and fundamental principles employed in professional stop-motion productions.
Puppets, cut-outs and sets Explore a range of materials and tools to create original props, characters and sets.
Experiment with claymation, puppet animation and cut-out animation techniques.
Complex lighting, rigging and camera setups Explore lighting setups, rigging, and precise tie-down techniques on set, and expand your knowledge of different camera lenses for animation.
Professional workflow Immerse yourself in the professional animation workflow and learn to synchronise lip movements with recorded audio to create a short animated sequence.
Work placement
You have the option to spend one year in industry learning and developing your skills.
We encourage and support you with applying for a placement, job hunting and networking.
You gain experience favoured by graduate recruiters and develop your technical skillset.
You also obtain the transferable skills required in any professional environment, including communication, negotiation, teamwork, leadership, organisation, confidence, self-reliance, problem-solving, being able to work under pressure, and commercial awareness.
Many employers view a placement as a year-long interview, therefore placements are increasingly becoming an essential part of an organisation's pre-selection strategy in their graduate recruitment process.
Benefits include: · improved job prospects · enhanced employment skills and improved career progression opportunities · a higher starting salary than your full-time counterparts · a better degree classification · a richer CV · a year's salary before completing your degree · experience of workplace culture · the opportunity to design and base your final-year project within a working environment.
If you are unable to secure a work placement with an employer, then you simply continue on a course without the work placement.
AVFX Project
Work alongside your project supervisor to develop a large-scale piece of individual work relating to your chosen specialism and career aims.
This is a 60-credit module.
Creative Industry Briefs
You choose from a selection of briefs which reflect specialist industry roles, such as realistic creature animation, effects simulation or puppet making.
Explore your specialism and develop your professional skills such as pitching ideas, costing and scheduling, working to a tight brief and responding to client changes.
Kino
You work in a team to produce a short film or visual effects sequence in a style of your choice.
It could be a high-end visual effects sequence, a motion graphics title sequence or a short film.
Each member takes on a production role to mimic the industry pipeline.
You gain experience of teamwork, and a showpiece for your portfolio.
Modules offered may vary.
You use industry-standard software including Toon Boom Harmony to design and animate characters and backgrounds for 2D, and Dragonframe to make stop motion.
You graduate with an excellent and unique showreel of animated work.
Our Disability Services team provide an inclusive and empowering learning environment and have specialist staff to support disabled students access any additional tailored resources needed.
If you have a specific learning difficulty, mental health condition, autism, sensory impairment, chronic health condition or any other disability please contact a Disability Services as early as possible.
Find out more about our disability services
Find out more about financial support Find out more about our course related costs
For Clearing 2025 entry requirements, please refer to the information in the box above.
96-112 points points plus a portfolio if your Level 3 qualifications do not include a creative subject such as art, design, drawing, animation or games art/design.
Your portfolio should demonstrate fundamental drawing skills, such as life drawing and observational drawing, alongside showing us your creativity.
Get some hints and tips on how to prepare a portfolio If you have gained credits at Level 4 or higher in a related subject from previous study at college or university then credit transfer towards your new course may be possible.
Find out how many points your qualifications are worth using the UCAS tariff calculator .
If your qualifications are not listed, contact our admissions team as we may accept alternatives.
We may also be able to help you meet the entry requirements through our Summer and Winter University modules.
For general information please see our overview of entry requirements .
International applicants can find out what qualifications they need by visiting Your Country .
Our graduates find roles as 2D/stop motion animators, assistant animators and production designers for animation.
Our ExpoSeries of events are an opportunity for you to interact with employers.
Each event is open to the public and industry guests, allowing you to showcase your work to peers and potential future placements or employers.
Including work experience on your CV makes you a much more attractive applicant.
You have a higher chance of improving your degree classification and the boost in confidence gives you the edge in job interviews.
Placements are not compulsory but are assessed and contribute to your final degree award.
Our placements team gives you help and support, including guidance on applications and interviews, to help you get a placement that suits you.
International applicants - find out what qualifications you need by selecting your country below.
Visit our international pages for useful information for non-UK students and applicants.
Talk to an international student enrolment adviser
Study this course with a foundation year if you need additional preparation or if you don't have sufficient grades to join Year 1.
BA (Hons) 2D Animation and Stop Motion (with Foundation Year)
Study this course with an optional work placement year, at no extra cost.
Alongside this, you can gain valuable experience and engagement with the sector through our shorter work placements, internships and work experience opportunities.
Work placements
Fee for UK applicants £9,535 a year
More about our fees
Fee for international applicants £17,000 a year
More about our fees for international applicants
What is included in your tuition fee?
Apply now (full-time)
Fee for UK applicants £4,635 (120 credits)
Apply online (part-time)
Our 2D animation and stop motion students support musician Owen Lamont in producing a video for his single
View our BA (Hons) 2D Animation and Stop Motion student showreel.
My time here has honestly been the best three years of my life, it’s fun and hard work but well worth it in the end.
Meet Dalton
The University has made me a much more confident person and taught me so much more than I could have ever imagined.
Meet Arden
Animex 2023 round-up, our international festival of animation, VFX and games.
Hear what some of our students have to say about our BA (Hons) 2D Animation and Stop Motion course.
Emmy success for Teesside University graduate A successful Teesside University graduate who recently returned to the region to inspire guests at Animex is celebrating an Emmy Award for his work on a flagship HBO series.
Read the full story
New scholarship will help break down barriers to the animation and games industries Teesside University’s internationally renowned Animex festival is supporting a new scholarship to help students from under-represented groups to achieve a career in the animation or games industries.
Games industry job roles for students after placement success Nine talented students have managed to secure full-time job offers at a leading
games studio after taking part in industry placements as part of their Teesside
University degree.
ExpoTees Creative presents the best work from our talented second-year, final-year and masters students in animation, concept art, games and visual effects.
Email: scedtadmissions@tees.ac.uk
Telephone: 01642 738400
Online chat (general enquiries)
Email: internationalenquiries@tees.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 1642 738900
More international contacts
How to understand the DiscoverUni data

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/animation_concept_art_&_visual_effects/ma_2d_animation_and_stop_motion.cfm:
Arran Bull talks about his experience of studying a master’s in 2D animation and stop motion at Teesside
If you want to write, design and animate a short film, taking it from initial concept through to festival-ready completion, this is the course for you.
Learn how to pitch your script to industry professionals and funding bodies while critically engaging with animation through a range of theoretical frameworks.
Semester 1 focuses on writing, pitching and designing production materials.
Explore the anatomy of animation, gaining insight into the layers of production and refining a considered creative approach.
Semester 2 moves into production.
Work in either 2D or stop motion using dedicated studio spaces, technical labs and workshops.
Develop skills in sound, editing, performance and direction, supported by experienced staff and technical specialists - ready to release the final film.
Ranked 19th in the world in the Animation Career Review International Animation School Rankings 2024.
195 colleges considered.) Find out more at tees.ac.uk/source .
Anatomy of a Film
You deconstruct and analyse all aspects of films and animations that make up the visual language used to influence the audiences understanding.
You will be expected to analyse and critically discuss many genres and formats including short film, feature film, and both live action and animation.
This module also introduces you to other relevant concepts and associated theories such as psychoanalytical theory, film theory, as well as establishing a social, cultural and intellectual context for production work.
Creative Animation
Working as a group you explore and produce a short animation sequence or set of sequences, either using 2D, stop-motion, or an appropriate animation technique (or combination).
You are introduced to the principles of performance for animation, using dialogue, sound creation and synchronisation techniques.
This is your opportunity to experiment with technical and visual aspects of your final films.
Final Film
Using the pre-production materials already produced throughout the course, you create your final short film animation or TV pilot.
Industry Practice
Students will be expected to develop and demonstrate an understanding of the core broadcast skills, media workflows, studio etiquette, technologies and production methods as used by a contemporary 2D and/or stop motion animation studio together with demonstrating an understanding of intellectual property rights and contracts appropriate to enable career progression.
Production Design
You study and develop an original visual style for your animation.
You look at case studies of contemporary directors and gain an understanding of the art department’s role within the production process.
Script and Pitch
You write and develop a screenplay for a film/animation or TV series pilot.
You will learn how to write and present a script idea in a competitive environment.
Internship
The internship options are: Vocational : spend one semester working full-time in industry or on placement in the University.
We have close links with a range of national and international companies who could offer you the chance to develop your knowledge and professional skills in the workplace through an internship.
Although we cannot guarantee internships, we will provide you with practical support and advice on how to find and secure your own internship position.
Research : develop your research and academic skills by undertaking a research internship within the University.
Animation is an intensive discipline, you are focused on creating an animated short from the beginning.
You are supported by a teaching team who have backgrounds in 2D and stop motion animation as well as fine art installation.
In addition, the course is supported by dedicated stop motion and 2D animation spaces as well as well-equipped workshops with specialist technician support to help you in your model, puppet and set making.
You are assessed on your subject-specific knowledge, cognitive and intellectual skills and transferable skills applicable to the workplace.
You are given formative assessment throughout the programme, typically given during lectures and tutorials.
At least a UK 2.2 honours degree in animation or equivalent.
Other first degree subjects may be accepted when combined with a portfolio of creative work at an acceptable standard.
Get some hints and tips on how to prepare a portfolio Students with a degree awarded outside the UK must also meet the University's minimum English language requirements.
For general information please see our overview of entry requirements
International applicants can find out what qualifications they need by visiting Your Country
You have access to the School Students Future programme to develop your graduate employability skills.
This involves a series of activities delivered to all students, year groups, subject cohorts or subject groups and includes industry speaker talks, extra-curricular industry challenges and company visits.
The programme is co-ordinated by a team of academic staff, representing each subject area, who are actively working with our industry partners and other external organisations to ensure you are equipped with the skills required for the changing needs from industry.
Fee for UK applicants £8,365 a year
£5,417.50 a year with advanced practice
£10,000 a year with advanced practice
Apply online (full-time) for UK applicants
Apply online (full-time) for international applicants
Apply online (fast-track) for current students
Fee for UK applicants £930 for each 20 credits
Apply now (part-time)
The median salary for working-age postgraduates (£45,000) was £6,500 more than for working-age (those aged 16 to 64) graduates (£38,500) in 2022.
(Graduate labour market statistics, tees.ac.uk/source )
Regional RTS awards success for talented Teesside animators Talented Teesside University animators have been recognised in a student category of the regional Royal Television Society awards.
Telephone: 01642 738801

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/animation_concept_art_&_visual_effects/ba_(hons)_2d_animation_and_stop_motion_(with_foundation_year).cfm:
Typical entry requirements: 48 points We consider each application individually.
This course includes a foundation year - ideal if you need additional preparation or if you don't have sufficient grades to join Year 1 of a degree.
2D Digital Art
You are introduced to the creative possibilities of image-making using digital tools.
Study the fundamental principles of design and composition, and explore a range of image creation techniques.
Use appropriate graphics software to improve your technical skills incorporating layers, composition, colour, linework and lighting.
Case Studies
Focusing on computer games, animation and film, you gain an introductory level of understanding in the context of your chosen field of study.
As well as looking at the historical and context of these, you observe how we interpret these types of media historically and materially.
Choose a text within your area of interest, undertaking an analytical review in the form of a case study.
Drawing, Creativity and Design
Learn to create imagery using traditional and digital drawing tools.
Develop your drawing techniques and creative interpretations of themes including figure drawing, still life, perspective and character, creature and environment design.
You are supported to produce images that effectively communicate visual ideas.
Foundation Project
You produce an individual project with guidance from your tutor.
Gain independent working and project management skills, developing original ideas and concepts in your chosen field.
This could be in the form of a piece of concept art, animation or another appropriate form related to creative industries.
Any combination of level 3 qualifications.
Each application is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Are you an international student looking for a foundation course offering both academic and English language content?
Explore your options with our International Study Centre .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/computer_games/ma_3d_games_art.cfm:
Animex 2024 round-up, our international festival of animation, VFX and games.
You have access to state-of-the-art facilities including high-specification, dual-screen computers with graphics tablets as standard as well as specialised learning spaces such as Cintiq studios, green screen and photography facilities and a motion capture studio.
You also benefit from a brand-new VR development studio and drawing studios, scanners, and light boxes for more traditional art development.
The course is informed by regular consultations with games studios such as Cloud Imperium Games to ensure our teaching practises are reflective of current industry trends.
You also benefit from guest speakers from studios such as Ubisoft and DreamWorks.
There are three routes you can choose from to gain an MA 3D Games Art: full-time - 2 years with advanced practice (September start) full-time - 1 year (September and January start) or 16 months (January start) part-time - 2 years.
3D Optimisation
Game graphics continue to increase in complexity, but the need for optimised assets continues.
You explore the production of efficient and effective game-ready art assets that meet the high visual expectations of users and the technical limitations of various game platforms, such as consoles, mobile and pc.
You focus on model topology, texel density, and shader network optimization.
You also explore UV and textures as a tile-able and reusable resource.
100% assessment with two elements - an asset submission based on a brief and an illustrated report.
Game Group Project
You explore the prototyping aspects of computer games development within a contemporary game engine, focusing on the principles of art and design.
You look at different ways of creating, designing and developing interactive and accessible content specific to modern gaming platforms.
Working in small teams, you develop a real game from concept through to fully demonstrable prototype.
Industry Research and Development
Research and development form a vital part of every visual effects and games company.
You solve technical and creative problems through research and investigation to create stunning animation, effects and assets.
You explore and research an area of your chosen specialisation within the animation, visual effects and games industry.
You focus on a research-informed workflow where you iterate through a process of research, design and evaluation to develop a working prototype or proof of concept that demonstrates high-level techniques related to games, animation and visual effects.
Lighting and Rendering
You explore strategies for the technical implementation and artistic considerations for real-time efficiency in different lighting, visual style and environment scenarios for games.
You use this and hone your practice and asset management strategies in preparation for professional practice.
You develop lighting skills and art direction, specifically for real-time environments and assets presentation.
Assessment is an ICA – you create a single scene from a cinematic inspired brief and reflect on the result in a presentation.
Master's Project
You undertake a major, in-depth, individual study in an aspect of 3D games art.
Your project is drawn from appropriate problem areas in the games art or closely related fields.
The project involves research and investigation in relevant aspects of a very specific area of study followed by the production of a major deliverable portfolio of relevant practice based materials from the area of 3D games art.
You also produce a written report that contextualises and critically evaluates your final outputs.
Assessment 100% ICA.
The major deliverable(s) are assessed through a viva.
You also produce an accompanying report with research, project process and evaluation, which contextualises and evaluates the creative output.
Material Creation
You focus on creating high quality cost effective game asset materials by developing new skills and building advanced knowledge in procedural and custom asset generation for complex material workflows.
Appropriate software is used to produce real-time game assets.
100% assessment - a portfolio of 3D assets, report and poster.
Modelling and Sculpting
Explore how hard surface and digital sculpting software is used to create sophisticated 3D assets for 3D games production.
You require skills in basic 3D modelling and UV unwrapping, sculpting and understanding of proper topology.
100% ICA - the construction of a hard surface and organic scene within a relevant 3D modelling / digital sculpting software.
You learn about key game art production concepts and methods primarily through keynote lectures and tutorials using case studies and examples.
You can choose to specialise in environment, character, mechanical asset development through the development of a portfolio built around your module work.
The programme assessment strategy has been designed to assess your subject specific knowledge, cognitive and intellectual skills and transferable skills applicable to the workplace.
The strategy ensures that you are provided with formative assessment opportunities throughout the programme which support your summative assessments.
There is a mix of practical work (usually in the form of a portfolio), poster and viva presentations, written reports.
Formative feedback is typically given during lectures, tutorials and summative feedback using on-line methods.
The assessments can include individual or group work.
The assessment criteria, where appropriate, will include assessment of presentation skills and report writing.
At least a UK 2.2 honours degree in games art or equivalent.
Get some hints and tips on how to prepare a portfolio In addition, international students will require IELTS 6.0 or equivalent.
Many of our graduates in the games art area are working at a variety of studios including Ubisoft, Supermassive Games, Creative Assembly, Splash Damage, and Sumo Digital.
We prepare you for a career in industry.
In addition to your taught classes, we create opportunities for you to meet and network with our industry partners through events such as our ExpoSeries, which showcases student work to industry.
ExpoTees is the pinnacle of the ExpoSeries with over 100 businesses from across the UK coming to the campus to meet our exceptional students, with a view to recruitment.
We also offer start-up business support to help you develop your own business in games through our innovative Power UP Indie Games Accelerator.
Pete's career path has led him to his dream of working as a games designer in California
Meet Pete
Teesside University partnership provides a boost for games development industry Teesside University has strengthened its partnership with an iconic games development studio in a collaboration that will provide even more opportunities for students and graduates.
Leading UK games development studio to grow opportunities for students with Teesside University partnership One of the country’s leading computer games development studios has joined forces with Teesside University to create more opportunities for students and graduates.
Expansion plans announced for major animation and games festival Teesside University’s internationally-renowned Animex festival is expanding in a drive to get the wider community engaged and enthused about the annual event.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/education_&_youth/pgcert_academic_professional_apprenticeship_(apa)_with_postgraduate_certification_of_learning_and_teaching_in_higher_education.cfm:
It is suitable for all new academic employees with less than three years’ experience in higher education and provides the pathway for employees to reach their full professional competence.
Apprentices come from a range of institutions, and this offers them the opportunity for rich collaborative work and discussion.
It is an 18 month course at level 7 and both the apprenticeship standard and end-point assessment are aligned to the current editions of the Higher Education Academy UK Professional Standards Framework (UKPSF).
Study this course and you may be eligible for a £2,500 Sir Keith Skeoch postgraduate scholarship.
Course delivery is varied, and includes professional development activities, peer observations and workshops.
It is a work-based course and can be accessed nationally using a hybrid delivery model.
Please note, we can only respond to enquiries from employers, or individuals with agreement from their employer to undertake an apprenticeship.
Developing Academic Practice
This module enables a range of higher education professionals who have a role in supporting learning and teaching to advance their knowledge in their own area of practice in order to contribute to a high-quality student learning experience.
It develops apprentices' knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of current drivers, for example TEF, NSS and UKPSF, university strategies and issues in higher education.
The learning and teaching strategy supports apprentices to focus on an educational issue of relevance to you, negotiated with the tutor, and apply learning from contemporary academic theory, pedagogic research and/or scholarship to develop a project to enhance higher education practice.
Apprentices are expected to seek out and take advantage of additional opportunities to address their identified professional development needs.
Facilitating Learning in Higher Education
Apprentices develop knowledge and understanding of, and skills in, their role as a teacher in higher education.
The module prompts them to engage with institutional and external drivers, in particular university academic strategy and the United Kingdom Professional Standards Framework for Teaching and Supporting Learning in Higher Education, as well as the Teaching Excellence Framework, and to reflect upon their impact on learning and teaching in higher education.
The module employs the concept of the ‘informed, reflective and competent practitioner’ as a framework to enable apprentices to interpret and apply knowledge and understanding to their own practice as educators.
Stemming from this, apprentices undertake a critical and analytical appraisal of the academic role across a selection of core learning-and-teaching activities.
An important part of the module is promoting continuing reflection on teaching practice, for which a teaching-observation component is one of the main triggers.
The minimum off the job training for a full-time apprentice is an average of six hours per week.
The off-the-job training provides the time to focus and develop the required skills, knowledge and behaviours to achieve the apprenticeship.
Off-the-job training is defined as learning which is undertaken outside of day-to-day work duties and leads towards the achievement of the apprenticeship.
This training takes place within the apprentice’s normal (contracted) working hours.
Apprentices study this course on a part-time basis, however the programme includes elements delivered using distance learning, blended learning and there are initial blocks of teaching for each module.
All modules include work-based elements and application of theory to practice.
The course is managed and taught by principal and senior lecturers who all hold either fellowship or senior fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.
Apprentices are provided with course and module guides containing comprehensive information about their assessments.
They complete a portfolio for each module.
However, these will differ in content to reflect the different purpose of each module.
Apprentices then use some of the content from these portfolios to develop three further assessment tasks to satisfy the end-point assessment of the academic professional route they are studying.
Find out more Their progression through the course is discussed at regular meetings with the course team and workplace mentors Formative assessment, includes, but is not limited to, online discussions, individual feedback about any draft pieces of evidence, synchronous and asynchronous discussions, as well as observers’ comments on observed teaching sessions.
End-point assessment > Academic professional practice, as a classroom observation > Professional conversation Written submission comprising a 3,000 word reflective journal and an annex containing a maximum of ten pieces of supporting evidence (4,500 words).
To be accepted on to an apprenticeship course you must have support from your employer and meet the course entry requirements.
Standard University postgraduate entry criteria applies, plus: > apprentices must demonstrate that they are currently teaching or supporting learning on HE level provision (minimum 50 hours per academic year) > contracted for a minimum of 30 hours per week.
Eligibility Apprenticeships starting from August 2021 Apprentices will continue to be eligible for an apprenticeship in England if they meet the eligibility requirements in place at that time, including that: •	they were living in the EEA or Switzerland on 31 December 2020 •	they have been living in the EEA, Switzerland, the UK or Gibraltar for at least the last three years before starting an apprenticeship •	they have lived continuously in the EEA, Switzerland, the UK or Gibraltar between 31 December 2020 and the start of their apprenticeship •	they will spend at least 50% of their working hours in England during their apprenticeship •	the apprenticeship starts before 1 January 2028.
Apprentices' children are also eligible for an apprenticeship in England on the same terms even if they are not themselves UK nationals.
For apprentices aged 16-18 on the first day of their apprenticeship, a level 2 English and maths (GCSE grade 4/C or level 2 functional skills) remains mandatory before completion.
For apprentices aged 19 and over, the level 2 English and maths requirement is now optional.
English and maths training can be included where agreed by the apprentice and employer.
Apprentices on the course can progress to the MA Education .
An apprenticeship combines vocational work-based learning with study for a university degree.
Designed in partnership with employers, apprenticeships offer it all - a higher education qualification, a salary, and invaluable practical experience and employment skills.
Employer Apprenticeship Levy investment £9,000
Apprenticeship levy paying employers - £9,000 paid from your levy funds.
Non apprenticeship levy paying employer - £450 (remainder paid by government co-funding)
Enquire now
Email: apprenticeships@tees.ac.uk
Telephone: 01642 738888

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/business_management_&_enterprise/certificate_academic_skills_for_higher_education.cfm:
These skills include a range of personal and transferable study skills, including active listening, reading and understanding academic texts, note taking, time management, written and oral communication, analytical thinking, and referencing.
Download pdf
Start date: Starts Monday 30 June, Mondays and Wednesdays for 4 weeks, 6.00pm-9.00pm
This course has now started.
You can study up to 30 credits at Summer University and you can select up to three modules on the same application form.
If you would like to add a module later, or change one of your choices, then please email summer.university@tees.ac.uk .
Age restriction Due to the content and delivery of our Summer University courses, it is advised that applicants are aged 16+ at the time of enrolment.
You can download the parental consent form and send to summer.university@tees.ac.uk after you submit your application.
See more Summer University courses
Middlesbrough campus
Personal development Study skills Communication Presentation skills Academic writing skills Critical thinking skills Harvard reference skills Reflection on learning Portfolio building.
With a structure and template provided, you will provide an individual 1,500 word portfolio containing a reflective written analysis of the learning and acquisition of skills that you have gained throughout the module.
International applicants must have an IELTS overall score of 5.5 or higher.
Fee for applicants: £50

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/accounting_&_economics/bsc_(hons)_accounting_and_finance.cfm:
Accredited Foundation year Work placement
Discover how we can help you build a successful career accounting, finance or investment banking.
Our undergraduate courses provide practical skills, industry insights and expert teaching to prepare you for the future.
Develop a detailed knowledge of accounting and finance and a global outlook with strong leadership capability.
Alongside core areas of accounting, you focus on emerging technology, digital skills, governance, ethics, sustainability, employability and finance.
Graduate with the skills and expertise to move into roles such as accountant, data analyst, tax adviser or purchasing manager, and the confidence to progress to more senior and strategic roles.
Through our connections with industry, we ensure you are familiar with the latest trends and the impact of digital and AI on business and society.
Our recent graduates work for organisations such as Ernst and Young, HM Treasury and Enterprise Rent-A-Car.
Others have embraced their inner entrepreneurial spirit, taking advantage of our support and setting up their own successful businesses.
Top reasons to study accounting and finance at Teesside Financial awards: study this course and you may be eligible for a £9,000 Professor Jane Turner Scholarship (excluding those applying to the foundation year).
London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) Workspace: use fast, lightweight and user-friendly web technology to enhance your learning experience.
Stay ahead of your peers with access to high-quality data, news and content.
Industry input: work with brands including Abacus Bean Accountancy Services, Coca-Cola, Apple, Adobe, Microsoft, KPMG, Ernst & Young, and Johnson & Johnson to give you experience of working with global organisations.
Entrepreneurial opportunities: our students have created 500 new business start-ups through Launchpad and Fuel – a start-up community that provides support and advice for students looking to start a new business venture.
Dedicated teaching staff: 100% of accounting students agreed that it was easy to contact teaching staff if they needed to (National Student Survey 2024, tees.ac.uk/source).
Recognised as an Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) Partner in Learning, working with ICAEW in the professional development of students.
Accounting Principles and Systems
You are introduced to the basic concepts of financial accounting, developing knowledge of bookkeeping, accounting adjustments, and final accounts preparation for sole traders and companies.
You learn how to record transactions, enter journals in the ledger, and produce accounting reports using an accounting information system.
By the end of the module, you are able to prepare a simple set of financial statements, incorporating statement of profit and loss, and statement of financial position for sole traders and companies.
Future Ready Enterprises
Immerse yourself in business and enterprise, employability, economic factors affecting business, emerging technology and marketing.
You explore the everchanging and challenging environment that businesses operate in, from the global marketplace to changing technologies to customer behaviour.
Work as part of a team to understand cutting edge issues in business.
Governance and Sustainability
Develop your knowledge of the English legal and regulatory environment that accountants operate within.
You explore current law and regulations governing UK companies and the role of corporate governance, including contract, tort, employment and company law.
You also consider professional ethics, corporate social responsibility and sustainability reporting, developing a foundation for skills required in business.
Quantitative Data and Decision-Making
Enhance your understanding of quantitative techniques, spreadsheet analysis tools, cost and management accounting, data presentation and digital literacy.
You build critical digital skills and explore data analytics tools, learning how to apply these to practice scenarios.
Financial Reporting
You are introduced to basic financial accounting, and develop your knowledge of the theoretical and regulatory frameworks for financial reporting.
Explore the content and application of reporting standards in the preparation of key financial statements.
Learn how to apply the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to transactions, and prepare a set of financial statements including statement of profit and loss, statement of financial position, statement of changes in equity and other comprehensive income.
Management Accounting
Consider the financial techniques and analysis used by managers to control and assess organisational performance and enhance decision-making.
You gain contemporary knowledge of management accounting techniques.
And you study their application to qualitative and quantitative data for planning, decision-making, performance evaluation and control.
Develop your digital skills to assess organisational performance from a financial and non-financial perspective.
Strategic Leadership
Examine responsible leadership and management, considering professional value and behaviours, ethical and cultural considerations and team working.
You dive into theoretical business models, covering strategic environment, competition, value analysis and choices and enabling and managing change.
Taxation
You are introduced to tax policy and practice, examining its impact on both businesses and individuals.
You understand the objectives of tax systems and skills, learning how to compute tax calculations for individuals and companies – completing a SA100 form and associated pages for an individual, and CT600 form for companies.
Advanced Financial Reporting
You build on your financial accounting knowledge, developing your understanding of theoretical frameworks for financial reporting.
Explore the content and application of complex reporting standards, and the preparation and intrepretation of key financial statements.
On completion of you module, you are able to apply the International Financial Reporting Standards to transactions, and prepare consolidated financial statements incorporating statement of profit and loss, and statement of financial position.
Audit and Assurance
Apply best practice in internal and external auditing within the International Standards on Auditing framework.
And complete audits by apply auditing theory using a risk-based approach, along with professional scepticism and professional judgement.
Strategic Finance
Explore the role of corporate finance and the market it operates in, considering domestic and international settings.
You study the ways businesses use these markets to create and maintain shareholder value by taking investments and financing decisions.
Also, you learn about the use of financial instruments to reduce risk.
Consultancy Project
You get the opportunity to work on live projects with external clients.
This practical learning encourages you to become an active learner and decision maker.
You improve your communication and problem-solving abilities, drawing on the knowledge you gained in previous modules.
This includes management science, organisational behaviour, emerging technology and information systems, data analysis, and accounting and finance.
Final Project
Create original ideas and concepts for your individual project, creating an artefact, report, campaign, comic, product or other form related to the arts, design and media industries.
You explore the context and history of the creative arts and use this to inform your project.
Learning to research and analyse ideas about art, design and media, you develop your understanding of creative working and the relationship between creativity, society and the environment.
This is a 40-credit module.
Teaching includes lectures, seminars and computer workshops.
You are taught by a dedicated team of staff who have a wide range of expertise across the field.
They develop and maintain strong links with professional accounting bodies, such as CIMA and ACCA, and employers.
Assessment methods are varied and include formal examinations, in-course work, digital assets and presentations.
A typical offer is 80-104 tariff points from at least two A levels (or equivalent) and GCSE grade 4 (C) or above (or equivalent) in maths.
We consider AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting for Year 1 entry and AAT Level 4 Professional Diploma in Accounting for Year 2 entry.
The course is aimed primarily at students wishing to enter a finance-related career and many graduates have obtained trainee accountant positions in a variety of organisations locally, nationally and internationally.
However, holding an accounting qualification also provides an excellent basis for entry into general management with excellent prospects to develop into strategic roles.
We provide an environment that allows you to develop the ‘extra’ practical employability characteristics that will make you more interesting to employers in the job market in the years to come.
All programmes are designed to incorporate employability skills development alongside your degree.
Our staff utilise their extensive business connections to provide many and varied opportunities to engage with potential employers through fairs, guest lectures, live projects and site visits.
In addition we offer a series of workshops and events in all years that ensure you are equipped with both degree-level subject knowledge and the practical skills employers are looking for in new graduate recruits.
We offer extensive support for you to find and secure sandwich year placements which have been shown to make have a significant positive impact on your career prospects when you graduate.
Our award-winning careers service works with regional and national employers to advertise graduate positions, in addition to providing post-graduation support for all Teesside University alumni.
The course is accredited by the following professional bodies: > Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) > Association of International Accountants (AIA) > Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) > Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants means that you can fast track onto a higher level of this internationally-recognised accounting qualification.
With dual accreditation at Teesside University, as well as the degree you receive a Level 5 Certificate in Management and Leadership from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), which is the only chartered professional body for management and leadership.
Dual accreditation means you will automatically receive a second professional qualification upon successful completion of your programme.
By adding this CMI qualification to your University qualification, you’re really on the road to success.
You instantly become more employable when you receive a CMI professional qualification that is industry-recognised You gain access to exclusive CMI networking events You have the opportunity to attend lecturers from top level CMI industry-expert members.
CMI’s qualifications sit on the Regulated Qualifications Framework and are recognised by the European Credit Framework.
CMI qualifications fast-track students into the next stage of training to become Chartered Managers.
During your studies you become a CMI Affiliate member, giving you a host of additional benefits to support your development and employability.
BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance (with Foundation Year)
Fezaan Hussain shares his journey of studying accounting and finance at Teesside, securing a valuable placement and landing a graduate role.
From the supportive lecturers to the campus and facilities, he reflects on how Teesside prepared him for a successful career in finance.
Meet Fezaan
Courtney tells us about studying accounting and finance, and her placement year at Double Eleven.
Meet Courtney
The lecturers were so helpful and passionate for us to succeed, there was always support when I needed it.
Meet Sarah
Email: tuibsadmissions@tees.ac.uk
BA (Hons)
This business accounting degree gives you a comprehensive understanding of business concepts and models with specialist knowledge of accountancy and finance....
View a full list of courses in Accounting & Economics.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/accounting_&_economics/msc_accounting_and_finance.cfm:
See what it’s like to study at our modern, enterprising and dynamic business school
This course is distinctive in its focus on using financial skills in organisations.
You develop hard and soft accounting skills as well as the interpersonal skills necessary to work effectively in the challenging business environment.
If you already hold a professional accounting qualification such as ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW, you only need to undertake two modules to complete the award - Contemporary Issues and Research Methods, and the Dissertation.
Top reasons to study accounting and finance with us: Industry input: we work with brands including Coca-Cola, Apple, Adobe, Microsoft, KPMG, Ernst & Young, and Johnson & Johnson to give you experience of working with global organisations.
Entrepreneurial opportunities: our students have created 500 new business start-ups through Launchpad and Fuel – a start-up community who provide support and advice for students looking to start a new business venture.
United Nations’ PRME initiative – we’re a proud signatory of the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative, which aims to globally raise the profile of sustainability and responsible leadership to equip current and future leaders with the skills to deliver positive change for business and society Financial awards: study this course and you may be eligible for £3,500 Sir Keith Skeoch postgraduate scholarship.
Contemporary Issues and Research Methods
You study a range of research strategies and techniques to investigate topical accounting issues in a theoretical framework, which helps to explain and illustrate the research process.
You also gain the skills required to develop a research proposal on a relevant topic.
Cybersecurity and Financial Crime
You consider this area of increasing concern for accountants and finance professionals in both domestic and international economies.
You gain a detailed knowledge of cybersecurity and financial crime, and develop the skills to prevent, investigate and detect such conduct in both the public and private sectors.
Dissertation
You apply your knowledge of accounting and finance to professional issues arising in a relevant context.
Your dissertation should relate to an issue in accounting and finance which is of current professional/technical or organisational significance.
The topic area, context and approach is proposed by you and agreed with a tutor before work on your dissertation can formally commence.
You are supported in preparing and completing the dissertation by a supervising tutor.
Finance Management
This module provides a theoretical and practical insight into a range of financial management techniques.
It examines the means by which financial information is used to inform the effective management of an organisation, including decision making and control, performance management and, investment management.
You also considers associated managerial behaviours and the relevance of issues such as risk management and environmental impact.
You are assessed by a combination of a report and an examination.
Reporting, Governance and Accountability
This module explores concepts and techniques in financial reporting, governance and professional ethics, and then moves to develop a critical understanding of the theoretical issues associated with the subject and the relevant skills associated with work issues in the area.
You are assessed by a combination of a written essay and an end examination.
You work independently and with the support of peers and tutors in tutorials, seminars, directed exercises and IT-based activities.
Assessment methods vary according to the module studied and include formal examinations, in-course work and presentations.
The normal entry requirement is one of the following: a good honours degree (at least a 2:2) a post-experience or professional qualification equivalent qualifications (including international qualifications).
However, if you do not have an honours degree but have significant appropriate work experience, you are encouraged to apply.
This programme is open to qualified accountants who may enter with 100 credits of advanced standing, leaving them with only the Current Issues in Accounting & Research  and the Accounting Dissertation to complete the award (not applicable for international students).
The normal entry requirement is one of the following:
As a graduate, you can look forward to pursuing rewarding positions in industry, accounting practices or the public sector.
The course provides a solid platform for a career in accountancy or general management, as well as for aspiring individuals seeking roles in the dynamic finance industry.
It also provides specialist finance knowledge and a comprehensive understanding of accounting, empowering you to pursue your professional aspirations with confidence.
I would recommend studying at Teesside, it is a lively environment with caring and helpful staff and students
Meet Marek
MSc
FinTech includes distributed ledger technology also known as the blockchain...

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/accounting_&_economics/msc_accounting_and_finance_(applied).cfm:
If you already hold a professional accounting qualification such as ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW, you only need to undertake two modules to complete the award - Current Issues in Accounting and Research, and the Accounting Dissertation.
United Nations’ PRME initiative – we’re a proud signatory of the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative, which aims to globally raise the profile of sustainability and responsible leadership to equip current and future leaders with the skills to deliver positive change for business and society London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) Workspace: use fast, lightweight and user-friendly web technology to enhance your learning experience.
Financial awards: study this course and you may be eligible for £3,500 Sir Keith Skeoch postgraduate scholarship.
Advanced Practice
Real-world experience is essential for standing out in today’s competitive job market.
Our Advanced Practice module offers you the opportunity to apply your academic knowledge in a practical setting, enhancing both your employability and professional skill set.
This module, typically undertaken over one semester, prepares you for practice-based opportunities that align with your career aspirations.
You’ll receive tailored support and guidance to apply for a range of advanced practice experiences, including: •	research or project-based opportunities on campus or virtually •	employer-led, work-based opportunities on campus or virtually •	internships with external organisations to gain offsite industry experience.
You’ll engage in an advanced practice opportunity that complements your skill set and future goals.
Assessment is through a reflective evaluation, equivalent to 3,000 words, marked on a pass/fail basis.
Although this module does not contribute to your overall degree classification, it provides invaluable hands-on experience that prepares you to excel in your career.
Core Concepts in Accounting and Finance
This module introduces essential accounting and finance concepts and principles for master's level students to afford an appreciation of the nature of financial information, the identification of relevant economic events, the determination of the most appropriate financial measures for those events, and the analysis of the effects of those events on the performance and financial standing of an organisation.
You are assessed via a case study-based examination
You integrate their learning and development, and synthesise their knowledge and understanding of the theory and practice of accounting and finance through application to professional issues arising in a relevant context.
This is achieved by undertaking an extended submission (or dissertation) related to an issue in accounting and finance which is of current professional/technical or organisational significance.
The topic area, context and approach will be proposed by you and agreed with a tutor before work on your dissertation can formally commence.
This is a 60-credit module comprising 600 prescribed learning hours, of which the vast majority will comprise you directing your own learning and workload and preparation of your dissertation thesis.
You are supported through the process of preparing and completing the dissertation by a supervising tutor who will monitor progress accordingly.
Global Economics and International Financial Markets
Fee for UK applicants £5,417.50 a year
Fee for international applicants £10,000 a year

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/accounting_&_economics/bsc_(hons)_accounting_and_finance_(with_foundation_year).cfm:
Typical entry requirements: 32 points We consider each application individually.
Accredited Work placement
Digital Skills for Business
Digital transformation is a development that businesses have been aware of for many years.
The speed, interactivity, accessibility, convenience and versatility of digital technology has the power to transform organisations.
Learn about the variety of digital sources and how to use them in organisations to drive forward operational development.
Enterprise and Creativity
Combining creativity with an enterprising outlook allows helps businesses solve challenges innovatively, by implementing new ideas and practices.
In this module, you develop your creative mindset by learning from experienced entrepreneurs and gaining an understanding of enterprise in business organisations.
Professional Skills for Business
You consider the skills required to operate successfully in business and develop your abilities and knowledge ready to begin your career.
Research in Business
Explore the fundamentals of data collection and analysis, using academic research and practical examples to develop your understanding of the importance of ethical research.
A typical offer is 32-64 tariff points from at least two A levels (or equivalent) and GCSE grade 4 (C) or above (or equivalent) in maths.
Foundation year £5,760

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/accounting_&_economics/certificate_accounting_essentials_for_business_success.cfm:
Start date: Starts Tuesday 1 July, Tuesdays and Thursdays for 4 weeks, 6.00pm-9.00pm
Introduction, what is finance, profit and loss Balance sheets, cash flow vs.
profit, cash management Company structures, analysis of company reports, introduction to ratios Ratio analysis Capital appraisal, appraisal methods, discounted cash flow Introduction to management accounting, business planning, budgets and controls Cost behaviour, marginal costing/break-even analysis, accounting in decision making
One Blackboard online assessment: to produce an informal report between 1,000 – 1,500 words (excluding appendices) in a professional style which evaluates and analyses the performance of a selected UK listed company, comparing it with an appropriate comparable company.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/biosciences/non-accredited_cpd_adeno-associated_virus_101.cfm:
AAVs have become a crucial tool in gene therapy and bioprocessing, allowing for targeted treatment options.
This course offers a comprehensive understanding of their entire lifecycle, from upstream to downstream processing.
You gain practical knowledge of clinical trial phases and the distinction between biologics and small molecules.
This course is delivered through the National Horizons Centre (NHC) and provides a structured learning pathway for graduates and professionals new to biopharma.
Top five reasons to study this course: Industry relevance: AAVs are pivotal in gene therapy, an emerging field in modern medicine.
Practical insights: learn the distinctions between biologics and small molecules, key for understanding biopharmaceutical products.
Comprehensive curriculum: covers both upstream and downstream processes, ensuring a full understanding of AAV production.
Clinical trial awareness: gain insights into the various phases of clinical trials and their significance in drug development.
Expert faculty: courses are delivered by industry professionals, offering up-to-date knowledge and industry applications.
The course covers the following modules: Biologics vs.
Small Molecules: understanding the key differences and applications.
AAV Fundamentals: learn the structure and function of AAVs and their role in biopharma.
Clinical Trial Phases: a breakdown of the different stages of clinical trials.
Upstream and Downstream Processing: detailed exploration of the production and purification of biopharmaceutical products.
This course is delivered 100% online, offering flexibility to study from anywhere at your own pace.
This allows you to balance learning with professional and personal commitments.
You engage with interactive materials, video lectures and case studies that deepen your understanding of AAVs.
With support from experienced faculty at the National Horizons Centre, you'll also have access to online forums to discuss topics with peers and instructors.
As a non-accredited course, there are no formal assessments.
This gives you the freedom to focus entirely on learning and mastering the content without the pressure of exams.
You engage with the material at your own pace and revisit key concepts as needed, ensuring a deeper understanding of AAV development and manufacturing processes without the need for grading.
No prerequisites to entry for this course.
Graduates can pursue careers in biopharma, gene therapy development, or research roles focused on AAVs.
The course also provides a solid foundation for further studies in bioprocessing and biotechnology.
Apply online

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/biosciences/msc_advanced_biomedical_science.cfm:
Accredited
The MSc Advanced Biomedical Science provides the skills and knowledge to create wide-ranging opportunities for employment in fields such as hospital science, biomedical and pharmaceutical industries or public health laboratories within the NHS.
The opportunity to develop your research skills, explore specialist areas, and complete an independent research project, provides preparation for careers in research or teaching or to pursue studies towards a PhD.
The course aims to produce postgraduates who have the knowledge and skills to become professional biomedical scientists and operate at an advanced level.
Core modules will develop knowledge of the biological aspects of disease processes while introducing cutting edge analytical skills.
Our extensive links with NHS and private laboratories, ensure course content is kept up to date and relevant to employers.
You are introduced to some of the contemporary issues facing the industry.
The course provides hands-on practical experience of both laboratory and bioinformatics techniques.
You are trained in biotechnology research strategies and gain a sound understanding of the nature of business based on bioscience knowledge and research, their opportunities for innovation and regulatory requirement constraints, intellectual property and ethical issues.
The course develops comprehensive knowledge and understanding of biomedical science in the 21st century.
It focuses on genomics and bioinformatics together with emerging clinical biochemistry and diagnostic techniques.
You also have the option to explore pathobiology of genetic disorders or neurodegenerative disease or infectious diseases in great depth.
Where possible this course is delivered at the University’s National Horizons Centre (NHC) , a new £22m research, teaching and training facility which addresses the growth needs of the bio-based industries set to transform the UK economy, including biologics, industrial biotechnology and bio-pharmaceuticals.
The centre’s imaginative design includes a blend of teaching, learning and collaboration spaces, hi-tech laboratories and a state-of-the-art computing suite.
Open innovation spaces provide businesses with the tools for project development using data analytics, modelling and simulation, visualisation and process improvement and control.
Next to CPI’s National Biologics Manufacturing Centre and the University’s ATMOS teaching facility, the NHC is at the heart of an ecosystem of life science excellence.
Our extensive links with NHS and private laboratories, ensure course content is kept up to date and relevant to employers, meaning students are introduced to some of the contemporary issues facing the industry.
The NHC offers state-of-the-art analytical and digital infrastructure supporting basic and applied research in the biosciences and across disciplinary boundaries, aligned to academic excellence and industry needs.
It exposes students to a significant internationally competitive research and innovation capability that is responsive and engaged with industry needs to develop sustainable relationships with regional and national partners to power growth and innovation in the bioscience sector.
Facilities in the centre enable students to engage with a range of advance and innovative research themes including: Provision of a comprehensive genomic, proteomic, metabolomics data acquisition, processing and modelling capability with internationally competitive instrumentation, software and technical support.
Studies of disease pathways including biomarker discovery, treatment monitoring, development of diagnostics and screening.
Supported by bioinformatics modelling and development of predictive models.
Biopharmaceutical research including product characterisation, metabolism and drug interaction studies.
Protein structure/function studies including aggregation, modification, activation and inhibition.
Use of advanced cellular imaging capabilities, including live cell imaging, using light, confocal and Raman, which among other topics, enables the study of; molecular interactions, conformational changes, drug interactions with living cells, tissue characterisation.
To qualify at master’s level, you undertake a research project/dissertation, which may be carried out in the University labs or in the workplace if you are currently employed.
We offer a range of projects in biomedical science as well as more specialist research areas.
Advanced Biological Aspects of Diseases
You investigate a range of innovative forward-looking research into the basic physiological aspects of disease and the associated pioneering treatments that are currently being developed.
The topics include: the mechanisms and treatment of depression, transporter gene acquisition and innovation in microsporidia intracellular parasites, the potential roles of mitochondrial defects and iron accumulation in Parkinson’s disease, the contributions of the structure and function of airway epithelium to asthma and respiratory disease, molecular and cellular portraits of cancer, and sphingolipids as potential drug targets in protozoan parasites.
You will fully develop the essential transferable skills of research, communication, and critical thinking by regularly reading and judging the data in primary research articles by formative presentations and in-class debate, as well as the summative written scientific review.
These employability skills will be indispensable in your career development whether you progress to posts in research, industry, or hospitals.
Analytical Techniques
Explore a range of advanced analytical techniques applicable to life science research.
Emphasis is on chromatography and mass spectrometry, with specialist topics such as microscopy and genomic skills.
Explore the importance of these practical instrumentation techniques to modern investigations, including proteomics, metabolomics and genomics.
Learn advanced lab skills for sample extraction, sample preparation, instrumentation methodology and how to interpret spectra.
Develop essential data handling skills and use a range of statistical programmes.
Clinical Biochemistry and Diagnostic Techniques
Develop knowledge and skills in advanced areas of biochemistry with special focus on clinical applications and diagnostics.
Emphasis is on the analysis of bodily fluids and other biological material to aid in patient diagnosis, therapy and monitoring for a variety of diseases.
Understand the essential concepts of clinical biochemistry and the associated diagnostic techniques required.
Genomics and Bioinformatics
Gain an in-depth understanding of advanced genomics, proteomics and bioinformatics, and their applications in specific disease states.
Learn about the most recent technologies including next generation gene sequencing, genome editing, and genomic and bioinformatics analyses.
Explore the genomic application for disease treatment and prevention (pharmacogenomics), personalised medicine and ethical challenges in this field.
Life Science Research Project
Complete a major independent practical research project in your discipline and fully integrate with a research-active supervisor.
Reflecting staff expertise, you pursue many discipline-related topics, including medical, industrial and environmental microbiology, molecular, cell and system biology, recombinant DNA technology, protein biochemistry, structural biology, fermentation, bioengineering and many other areas.
Complete a hypothesis-driven research project using appropriate skills to answer a research question in a specialised area of life sciences.
Supervisors provide guidance to support you but a high degree of autonomy is required.
Pathobiology of Infectious Diseases
Gain a deep understanding of infectious disease and explore a wide range of medically important human pathogens.
Learn key aspects of pathobiology, including pathogen genomics and evolution, bioinformatics, and the cellular and molecular biology that underpin these host pathogen interactions.
Subversion of key mammalian cell biological processes, including immunology, that are targeted by pathogens are described.
Advanced lab techniques and bioinformatics are introduced that are commonly used to uncover mechanisms of pathogenesis.
The Pathobiology of Neurological Diseases
You explore the pathophysiological basis of diseases commonly associated with the central nervous system, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, epilepsy and stroke.
The module will explore the genetic, molecular, cellular and neurochemical pathways involved in diseases of the central nervous system and how such abnormalities manifest clinically.
It will also examine the various treatment strategies available for such diseases.
Making the transition to postgraduate-level study can be challenging.
Support with making this transition is seen as an important element.
The Analytical Techniques and Clinical Biochemistry and Diagnostic Techniques modules help you understand the requirements of academic study at postgraduate level, to enhance your skills in academic writing and referencing, and to help you develop the skills necessary to operate professionally, safely and ethically in planning and implementing a master’s-level research project.
By including work-based problem-solving projects and case study exercises this programme emphasises real-world working.
This helps to develop your critical thinking skills as well as your ability to design, execute and present findings of research, allowing you to cultivate the skills employers are seeking to set you on a successful career path.
A significant feature of the programme is the opportunity to gain experience of working in state-of-the-art biomedical research facilities within the National Horizon Centre.
You are assessed on subject knowledge, independent thought and skills acquisition through formative and summative assessment.
Modules are assessed by a variety of methods including examination and in-course assessment with some utilising other approaches such as, oral presentations, technical interviews and technical reports alongside literature surveys, evaluations and summaries.
You are presented with an assessment schedule providing details of the submission deadlines for summative assessments.
Applicants are normally expected to have at least a UK 2.2 honours degree, or equivalent, in a subject related to life or physical sciences, for example biomedical science, human biology and biological science.
If your first degree is not listed above, or you have non-standard qualifications and/or relevant experience, please contact our Admissions Office.
For additional information please see the entry requirements in our postgraduate entry requirements page International applicants can find out what qualifications they need by visiting Your Country In addition, international students normally need at least a 6.0, with no component below 5.5, in the International Language Testing System (IELTS) test.
There may be short-term placement opportunities, particularly during the project phase of the course.
This course is the ideal progression route for BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science graduates or other bioscience disciplines.
It enhances your career prospects in the bioscience and biotechnology industries as well as preparing you for pursuing PhD positions.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science
Email: shlsadmissions@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/biosciences/non-accredited_cpd_advanced_bioprocess_control_data_and_pat.cfm:
For a limited time, enjoy a 50% discount on this programme as part of our partnership with the RESILIENCE Centre of Excellence for UK Medicines Manufacturing Skills.
This course is for engineers, technical staff and managers wishing to develop and extend their current standard control implementations, also scientists and engineers working in broader bio-based industries where the concepts and approaches can be applied.
Our advanced courses are aimed at those who are already working in the bioprocessing and biomanufacturing sector who want to gain a deeper understanding of relevant theory and techniques, understand and experience state-of-the-art techniques and methodologies, and appreciate the current and future challenges in biomanufacturing.
This course moves on from standard control strategies, to demonstrate how operational efficiencies can be achieved through state-of-the-art process automation, control, and process analytical technology (PAT).
You will learn about the initial phases of building the control improvement business case, and how the benefits of advanced automation, control and PAT often far outweigh the cost of implementation.
The Advanced Control Engineer’s ‘Toolkit’ is discussed in detail to understand how these approaches can be implemented in the development and regulated manufacturing environment.
Learning outcomes: Gain in depth knowledge of the opportunities afforded by process control to maximise productivity, efficiency, and quality in bioprocessing.
Use cost-benefit analysis to evaluate state-of-the-art process automation and control.
Apply gained knowledge and a ‘Toolkit’ approach to implement improvements in process automation and control in a regulated manufacturing environment.
Module 1 - Perfecting Conventional Control - Introduction to biotechnology and bioprocessing - The systems engineering landscape in bioprocessing - Instrumentation including PAT - Control concepts, performance metrics and PID control - Strategy design in advanced conventional control Module 2 - Performance Assessment and Quality Improvement - Control system cost benefit analysis - Introduction to design of experiments - Statistical process control methods - Lean Six Sigma - Control and automation in the validated environment Module 3 - Maximising Information from Available Data - Data pipelining - Systems modelling concepts - Data modelling in bioprocessing - Visualisation of process development bioprocess data from small bioreactors by multivariate data analysis with SIMCA - Monitoring of production bioprocess data by multivariate data analysis with SIMCA-online Module 4 - Advanced Approaches: Process Analytical Technologies and Control Opportunities, Benefits, and Implementation - Process analytical technologies: Process spectroscopy and its role in control improvement - Process analytical technologies: Online measurement of biomass and case study examples - Process analytical technologies: Rapid measurements of quality of product - Automation case study Module 5 - Bioprocess Simulation and Automation in Development - Bioprocess simulation - Bioreactor automation - Mechanistic modelling of chromatography - The future of bioprocess automation
This four-day course is delivered through a combination of lectures, workshops, and practical sessions.
The content covers theoretical aspects and practical techniques in biomanufacturing, including process control, automation, and process analytical technology (PAT).
No assessment required.
At least 3 years’ experience within the biomanufacturing industry.
Completing this course can benefit careers in biomanufacturing, process development, and R&D.
It is particularly useful for roles focused on process control, automation, and data analysis in the bioprocessing industry.
Fee for applicants: £2,950
plus VAT

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice.cfm:
This course enables you to develop your personal and professional autonomy, providing you with a comprehensive and critical understanding of professional practice, ensuring that you are fit for future challenges within health and social care.
The course is flexible for multi-professional individuals from all areas of advanced practice within acute and primary care sectors – you access the same core modules.
The negotiated competencies within the first-year portfolio module allow you the flexibility to ensure maximum relevance and application to your clinical area.
You have the opportunity to develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to your area of practice – you develop your advanced clinical decision-making skills, using evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and develop high levels of autonomy.
The course is developed in partnership with key stakeholders from practice and delivered by an experienced team with knowledge and academic credibility both within and outside of the University.
This multi-professional team has a wealth of experience in developing and delivering modules of this nature for healthcare professions at all academic levels.
You study this course on a part-time basis over three years.
You are supported through your studies by an academic supervisor and you also need to identify a practice supervisor.
Student Reference Policy
Competencies for Advanced Practitioner
You develop your knowledge and skills within the four pillars of advanced clinical practice – research, education, leadership and clinical.
You are supported to develop and apply advanced knowledge and skills to your practice through work-based learning.
Taught on Wednesdays.
Advanced Physical Assessment and Disease Management Skills
Designed to equip you as a registered healthcare professional, with the knowledge and skills required for focused clinical assessment, differential diagnosis, diagnostic triage and management of common disease presentations in primary and acute care.
You attend sessions addressing the focused application of core clinical skills, and common symptom and sign presentations across the lifespan.
This module is delivered over one semester through fortnightly sessions.
Work-based experience is a strong focus to apply your knowledge to practice, supported by a workbook.
You develop knowledge and skills in the assessment and management of patient cases.
Holistic Assessment and Clinical Management for Advanced Practice
This module prepares you to undertake a structured, person-centred, holistic assessment.
You apply your person-centred consultation skills and develop an understanding of a systematic assessment process as applied to clinical practice.
You develop the fundamental skills of holistic assessment.
Our systematic approach recognises the symbiotic relationship between the physical and psychological self, and their interconnectedness.
Holistic assessment skills are delivered in a classroom/lab setting.
You further develop your practical skills guided by a practice facilitator.
Developing Research Projects
Develop the knowledge and skills you need to design and manage primary or secondary research, audit or evaluation project relevant to your practice, preparing you for dissertation.
You also cover research governance and ethics, to prepare you to apply for ethical approval or release.
You are assessed through a written 4,000-word proposal for a research, audit or evaluation study, which is worth 100% of the module marks and should be submitted in week 13.
Advancing Non-medical Prescribing
Independent and supplementary prescribing is an integrated feature of health service delivery – some health-specific professionals are qualified to prescribe across a range of healthcare settings.
Advancing roles within both nursing and allied health professions have provided a greater access to medicines.
This award provides nurses and allied health professionals (physiotherapists, radiographers, podiatrists, dietitians and paramedics who are working in advanced practice roles) with the knowledge and skills to prescribe safely and effectively.
You must work within your own scope of practice and area of competence, and be in a position to complete the care cycle in a holistic manner for clients within your care.
You must meet the individual entry criteria for this course.
Taught on Tuesdays.
Negotiated Learning in Advanced Clinical Practice
You explore a specific area of advanced professional practice or academic study in depth, critically evaluating relevant theory and research, and linking this theory to advanced professional practice.
Your chosen topic should demonstrate development in your area of specialist practice.
You are encouraged and facilitated in an independent approach to learning with tutor support.
The module leader introduces you to the module and assessment process at the beginning of the semester.
You are allocated a supervisor who provides tutorial support.
Alternatively you can study this module online through the virtual learning environment and email.
Assessment is negotiated within the learning contract and can take a variety of forms such as a 4,000-word written assignment, viva, defended poster or a report.
The assessment must include a critical evaluation of the impact of the module on your personal learning and professional practice.
Taught on Mondays.
Advanced Practitioner Independent Dissertation Portfolio
This innovative approach to developing a portfolio dissertation enables you to demonstrate how acquiring mastery impacts on clinical practice.
You evidence how you have developed as an independent, autonomous advanced practitioner within your specialist area of expertise.
This is a negotiated independent learning portfolio, demonstrating you have achieved the four pillars of advanced practice – research, leadership, education and clinical practice.
You do this through a negotiated practice competency and an autonomous independent 3,000-word piece of work in the format of an appropriate academic journal article.
This can take the form of a research project, service evaluation, audit or systematic review with approval from ethics committees if required.
A viva explores and justifies the approach and methodologies used for your project.
You also explore your findings and recommendations.
And you examine areas for developing practice and disseminating findings to instigate change.
Using a blended approach, you must attend three, three-hour seminars in semester 1.
The sessions are designed to establish, maintain and support you throughout the dissertation module.
You are allocated an academic supervisor in Year 2 of the course.
The academic supervisor guides and supports you throughout the ethics submission and development of your portfolio.
Support from an appropriately qualified clinical supervisor in practice is an essential prerequisite for the module.
We use a range of teaching and learning methods throughout the course.
These include key lectures, seminars, laboratory-based learning, structured resource-based learning, electronic discussion, action-learning sets, masterclasses, formative processes, tutorials, small-group work, research tutorials, practical skills-based sessions, reflective practice, independent working and work-based learning.
Initially you attend University one day a week in the first semester.
We offer an increasing amount of distance-learning, promoting independent learning within the course – with the exception of the Advancing Non-medical Prescribing module which is regulated.
This culminates in the third year when you develop your independent dissertation portfolio.
Modules within this course have summative assessments to assess the module learning outcomes.
The modules use a variety of assessment methods to help develop advanced knowledge and skills for clinical practice.
You are assessed on the four pillars of advanced practice throughout the course.
Assessment methods include a written assignment, work-based learning through advanced clinical practitioner competencies, consultation clinics, reflective accounts, portfolio development, critical appraisal and evaluation of the evidence base, modified objective structured clinical examination record, viva (oral exam), patient case studies to develop and exhibit high levels of clinical reasoning and practical exams to demonstrate advanced decision-making skills.
Summative assessment within the core modules require you to critically evaluate key areas in relation to your area of work.
Group discussions and student-led seminars enable both peer and tutor feedback in relation to learning.
You must: > have current registration with relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor
This programme is accredited by Health Education England’s Centre for Advancing Practice .
Fee for UK applicants £855 for each 20 credits
Service users and carers support all aspects of our students' lifecycle from recruitment to graduation.
Email: admissions@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_(advanced_critical_care_practitioner).cfm:
This course enables you to develop your personal and professional autonomy, providing you with a comprehensive and critical understanding of professional practice, and ensuring that you are fit for future challenges within health and social care.
You can develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to advanced critical care – you develop your advanced clinical decision-making skills, using evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and create high levels of autonomy.
The course is developed in partnership with key stakeholders from practice and delivered by an experienced team with knowledge and academic credibility both within and outside the University.
This multi-professional team has a wealth of experience in developing and delivering modules of this nature for healthcare professionals at all academic levels.
You are supported through your studies by an academic supervisor, and you also need to identify a practice supervisor.
Competencies for Advanced Critical Care Practitioner
Advancing Competencies for Critical Care Practitioners
Initially, you attend University one day a week in the first semester.
We offer an increasing amount of distance-learning, promoting independent learning within the course – except for the Advancing Non-medical Prescribing module which is regulated.
The modules use various assessment methods to help develop advanced knowledge and skills for clinical practice.
You must: > have current registration with relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a critical care role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_(advanced_paediatric_practitioner).cfm:
You can develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to advanced paediatric care – you develop your advanced clinical decision-making skills, using evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and create high levels of autonomy.
Advanced Paediatric Physical Assessment Skills
Competencies for Advanced Paediatric Practitioner
You must: > have current registration with relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a paediatric patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_(advanced_primary_care_practitioner).cfm:
You can develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to advanced primary care – you develop your advanced clinical decision-making skills, using evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and create high levels of autonomy.
Competencies for Advanced Primary Care Practitioner
You must: > have current registration with relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a primary care role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_(midwifery).cfm:
You can develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to midwifery – you develop your advanced clinical decision-making skills, using evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and create high levels of autonomy.
Competencies for Advanced Midwifery Practitioner
You must: > have current registration with Nursing and Midwifery Council > have an honour’s degree in a midwifery > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a midwifery role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_degree_apprenticeship.cfm:
This degree apprenticeship enables the apprentice to develop their personal and professional autonomy, providing them with a comprehensive and critical understanding of professional practice, ensuring that they are fit for future challenges within health and social care.
The apprenticeship is flexible for multi-professional individuals from all areas of advanced practice within acute and primary care sectors – apprentices access the same core modules.
The negotiated competencies within the first-year portfolio module gives the apprentice flexibility to ensure maximum relevance and application to their clinical area.
The apprentice  develops their advanced and core transferable skills relevant to their area of practice – they develop their advanced clinical decision-making skills, using evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and develop high levels of autonomy.
The apprenticeship is developed in partnership with key stakeholders from practice and delivered by an experienced team with knowledge and academic credibility both within and outside of the University.
The apprentice studies this course on a part-time basis over three years.
They are supported through their studies by an academic supervisor and they also need to identify a practice supervisor.
To access the apprenticeship route the apprentice must be working in a healthcare setting with relevant registration and be sponsored by their organisation.
End-point Assessment for Higher Apprenticeship Advanced Practitioners
This module supports the end-point assessment if you are studying this course as part of the integrated degree apprenticeship.
The end-point assessment demonstrates that you have achieved the four pillars of advanced practice – research, leadership, education and clinical practice.
You need to achieve 160 credits.
You draw on a combination of practice experience, clinical supervision and blended approaches to teaching.
For the practice aspect of the module your allocated clinical supervisor provides guidance on the clinical aspects of your case study and the suitability of your topic for a clinical practice change report.
You have three contact sessions, each lasting six hours within semester 2, to establish, develop and maintain your ability to address the criteria for the module and related assignments.
Independent Project for Apprenticeship Advanced Practitioners
This innovative approach to developing your dissertation enables you to demonstrate how acquiring mastery impacts on your clinical practice.
Your negotiated independent project demonstrates how you are achieving the four pillars of advanced practice – research, leadership, education and clinical practice.
Using a blended approach, you must attend for three, three-hour seminars in semester 1.
The sessions establish, maintain and provide support throughout the dissertation module.
You are allocated an academic supervisor in Year 2 of the course to guide and support you throughout the project.
This module is assessed by a 3,000-word journal article, demonstrating advanced practice within your area of interest.
This can take the form of a research project, service evaluation, audit or systematic review.
This informs your development of the specialist area of practice identified within your role.
You are expected to write the research paper in a format appropriate for publication, although the paper does not need to be published as part of this module.
The apprentice accesses a range of teaching and learning methods throughout the apprenticeship.
Initially the apprentice attends University one day a week in the first semester.
We offer an increasing amount of distance-learning, promoting independent learning within the apprenticeship – with the exception of the Advancing Non-medical Prescribing module which is regulated.
This culminates in the third year when the apprentice develops their independent dissertation portfolio.
Modules within this apprenticeship have summative assessments to assess the module learning outcomes.
Apprentices are assessed on the four pillars of advanced practice throughout the course.
Summative assessment within the core modules require the apprentice to critically evaluate key areas in relation to their area of work.
Group discussions and apprentice-led seminars enable both peer and tutor feedback in relation to learning.
Apprentices must: > have current registration with relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.
Employer Apprenticeship Levy investment £12,000
Email: shlsapprenticeships@tees.ac.uk
Telephone: 01642 384551

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_degree_apprenticeship_(advanced_critical_care_practitioner).cfm:
The negotiated competencies within the first-year portfolio module give the apprentice flexibility to ensure maximum relevance and application to their clinical area.
The apprentice has the opportunity to develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to advanced critical care – they develop their advanced clinical decision-making skills, use evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and develop high levels of autonomy.
The apprenticeship is developed in partnership with key stakeholders from practice and delivered by an experienced team with knowledge and academic credibility both within and outside the University.
They are supported through their studies by an academic supervisor, and they also need to identify a practice supervisor.
Initially, the apprentice attend University one day a week in the first semester.
We offer an increasing amount of distance-learning, promoting independent learning within the course – except the Advancing Non-medical Prescribing module which is regulated.
Summative assessment within the core modules requires the apprentice to critically evaluate key areas about their area of work.
Apprentices must: > have current registration with a relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at the equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a critical care role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_degree_apprenticeship_(advanced_paediatric_practitioner).cfm:
The apprentice has the opportunity to develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to advanced paediatric care – they develop their advanced clinical decision-making skills, use evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and develop high levels of autonomy.
Apprentices must: > have current registration with a relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at the equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a paediatric patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_degree_apprenticeship_(advanced_primary_care_practitioner).cfm:
The apprentice has the opportunity to develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to advanced primary care – they develop their advanced clinical decision-making skills, use evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and develop high levels of autonomy.
Apprentices must: > have current registration with a relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at the equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a primary care role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/nursing_&_health/msc_advanced_clinical_practice_degree_apprenticeship_(midwifery).cfm:
The apprentice has the opportunity to develop advanced and core transferable skills relevant to midwifery – they develop their advanced clinical decision-making skills, use evidence-based approaches to care, lead innovation and practice, and develop high levels of autonomy.
Apprentices must: > have current registration with a relevant professional healthcare body such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Health and Care Professions Council > have an honour’s degree in a health-related subject (previous experience and evidence of study at Level 6 may be considered) > work in a healthcare organisation, normally at the equivalent of band 6 (or above) within an area of advanced practice > work in a midwifery role which requires diagnostic and therapeutic responsibility for a patient caseload for a minimum of 20 hours a week > have a minimum of three years’, full-time or equivalent in part-time hours, post-registration clinical experience > be able to organise for a suitable practitioner (for example, a medical doctor or an active advanced practitioner) to act as a practice supervisor > hold Level 2 qualifications in English and maths before starting their Teesside University apprenticeship.
Find out more.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucce_advanced_ecg_in_practice.cfm:
The award addresses the multi-professional care and management of clients who require cardiac monitoring.
Learning materials are delivered using the VLE.
Tutorial support is provided as required.
•	ECG recording using current guidelines •	normal sinus rhythm, junctional rhythms, idioventricular rhythms •	action potential •	cardiac axis •	supraventricular arrhythmias - atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, premature atrial contractions (PACs), junctional tachycardia - effects on patient and treatment •	ventricular arrhythmias - ventricular ectopics, accelerated idioventricular rhythm, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation - effects on patient and treatment •	atrioventricular (AV) blocks - sinus block, atrioventricular blocks (pacing) •	bundle branch blocks (pacing, CRT) •	acute coronary syndromes (STEMI/NSTEMI/U/A) •	ECG - miscellaneous changes
Twenty hours of direct engagement with the VLE/learning materials is expected, which includes presentations, blogs, tests and activities to support learning.
Formative feedback is provided through a mock exam in preparation for the summative exam.
Summative assessment is a two-hour unseen written exam.
You are provided with a selection of rhythm strips and 12-lead ECGs to interpret, analyse, evaluate and discuss.
You should: •	have evidence of ability to study at Level 6 •	be working in an environment where ECG interpretation can be employed •	have access to IT equipment.
This award enhances the CV of health professionals working with adult patients in relation to ECG interpretation, cardiac rhythm analysis, cardiac monitoring, and the care and management of arrhythmias.
Fee for applicants: £772.50
Limited funded places available

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucpce_advanced_pathophysiology.cfm:
You examine disease processes at cellular, tissue, organ and multi-system levels.
This will enhance your deeper understanding of disease processes, thus facilitating enhanced patient care.
This is especially relevant due to changing population demographics of age and multiple co-morbid disease burden.
The award is relevant to the following modules: Physical Assessment Skills Advanced Physical Assessment and Disease Management Skills Independent and Supplementary Prescribing This module helps underpin clinical judgement for clinical skills and prescribing in providing the pathophysiological rationale for common signs and symptoms of disease and helping formulate differential diagnosis within the scope of advanced practice.
Safe and effective practitioner practice at this level demands a thorough understanding of common disease processes and the dynamics of treatment at cellular, organ and multisystem levels in order to deliver good patient centred care.
Focus is on the common mechanisms by which cells, tissues and organs are injured and on the structural changes that underlie these disease processes.
Strong emphasis is placed on the context in which they might appear in the realities of clinical practice.
This award explores pathophysiology from an advanced practitioner perspective, offering the scientific knowledge and practical guidance a practitioner needs to refine diagnosis and make optimal treatment decisions for patients in any setting.
Key mechanisms of disease are examined to advance your knowledge of pathophysiological principle alongside current scientific research in the context of the diagnostics and therapeutics.
This module helps underpin clinical judgement for clinical skills and prescribing in providing the pathophysiological rationale for common signs and symptoms of disease and helping formulate differential diagnosis within the scope of advanced practice.
You explore the following concepts as they relate to advanced practitioner practice: application of pathophysiological principle to minimise/avoid risk and reduce patient morbidity and mortality to improve patient outcomes the role of the clinical method in establishing differential diagnosis, pathology and aetiology homeostatic disturbance and disease trajectories in the acute and chronic spectrum of disease pathophysiological principles applied to all body systems (cardiac, respiratory, renal, urinary, reproductive, haematological, musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, endocrine, and skin) cellular changes, adaptations, cell damage and death inflammation/immunity/sepsis haemodynamic dysfunction neoplasms fluid, electrolyte and acid base imbalances.
The module will be delivered online over a period of 14 weeks with ten weekly ‘live’ sessions, encompassing seminars and case-based discussion to illustrate the multi-system nature of the pathophysiology of acute and chronic disease.
Learning materials are made available as the module progresses.
This has the benefit of allowing you the flexibility to fit your study around your work and family commitments.
Recorded lectures are available, 24/7 and can be viewed repeatedly, allowing you the opportunity to experience the lectures repeatedly and at your convenience.
The live sessions augment your learning by giving you the opportunity to seek clarification on any of the taught areas.
Attendance at the live sessions is optional as they are recorded and posted on the support website for those who are unable to attend.
You are assessed by a 3,000-word theoretical case study applying pathophysiological knowledge, presented within the construct of the clinical method.
The focus of the case study is an established common general pathology and/or complex multi-pathologies as evidenced in the practitioner’s everyday practice.
The case study enhances the development of the practitioner's capacity to deal with complexity, multipathology and comorbidity.
You must be a qualified health care professional and have had evidence of recent study at degree or master’s level.
Given the current developments in health care and the ever increasing burden of disease, the need for advanced practitioners with diagnostic and therapeutic capacity is increasing quickly.
With the knowledge provided by this award and that combined from the Physical Assessment Skills, and Advanced Physical Assessment Skills awards there are now many opportunities for advanced practitioners from all professions to evolve their roles   in primary care, acute care and specialist care in delegated aspects of the clinicians role to support health care teams to meet the demands of the 21st century.
Fee for applicants: £855

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucpce_advanced_personal_effectiveness_.cfm:
For students studying this module on our Darlington campus, the module is delivered over 14 weeks and has four study days.
It begins with a two-day block and then two further days spread within the module.
There are four hours of collaborate online learning for you to further engage with the material and discuss application of theory to practice.
This module uses a variety of learning strategies such as the presentation of key concepts, student-led seminars, group discussion, coaching conversations.
It is designed to utilise leadership diagnostic tools (such as the NHS Healthcare Leadership Model or other equivalent appropriate leadership assessment tools).
The assessment tools are used to increase self-awareness and facilitate the development of personal action plans to enhance effectiveness and leadership capability in the workplace.
You can access a two-hour facilitated conversation or feedback to the healthcare leadership model report where this tool is used.
This facilitated conversation may be face-to-face or using appropriate contemporary software platforms.
Module content includes: Contemporary leadership theory Ethical, compassionate and value based leadership Personal effectiveness including psychological capital (hope, optimism, resilience, self-efficacy) Emotional and social intelligence Global mind-set Self-assessment strategies Leadership diagnostic tools such as NHS Healthcare Leadership Model or equivalents Personality traits and preferences (such as MBTI type) Individual facilitated discussion following the use of appropriate leadership diagnostic tools to increase self-awareness and self-management Developing a leadership philosophy and  robust personal Action Plans Principles and theories of reflection, reflexivity and critical appraisal Transition to Level 7 study (for students studying as stand alone or within PgC awards)
This module uses a variety of learning strategies such as the presentation of key concepts, student led seminars, group discussion, coaching conversations.
Where there are large numbers of students in the group, the group will be split into smaller groups to facilitate the in-depth group work and seminar discussion required at mastery level or to enable meaningful online collaborative discussions to occur.
The module is designed to utilise leadership diagnostic tools (such as the NHS Healthcare Leadership Model or other equivalent appropriate leadership assessment tools).
Students have the option to access a 2-hour individual facilitated conversation or 2-hour feedback session to the healthcare leadership model report where this tool is used.
Students will critically reflect upon their challenges, the findings of the diagnostics and will explore how they use their strengths and their action strategies to address developmental needs.
This facilitated conversation can be face to face or for students studying at a distance using appropriate contemporary software platforms.
Technology-enabled learning (such as recorded information and online interactive learning sessions)  will be utilised to support learning and further explore the students philosophy and challenges that are experiences in a professional role related to leadership and management.
Students will be provided with a timetable identifying when synchronous learning activities will occur (classroom or online).
The student will write a 3,000-word reflective essay which evaluates critically their personal effectiveness and leadership capability in relation to his/her role.
All learning outcomes assessed.
Applicants will normally have an honours degree in a health or social care-related subject or equivalent work-based experience.
Applicants with other qualifications may be considered if they can provide evidence of the ability to study at master's level.
Minimum of 12 months' post-qualification experience and in a position to actively engage in the leadership of practice.
For international students: IELTS 6.5 or equivalent standard which means the ability to successfully communicate both verbally and in written format.
To enhance leadership effectiveness in current or appointment to future leadership roles.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucpce_advanced_physical_assessment_and_disease_management_skills.cfm:
By having both a theoretical and clinical component, you extend your practice and gain the knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary to be operational in the physical assessment, diagnosis and patient management elements of advanced practice.
You focus on developing advanced competence in clinical assessment, diagnostic reasoning, and patient centred evidence-based therapeutics.
Physical assessment skills and diagnostic reasoning sessions will develop your knowledge of anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology as applied to the diagnostic process.
An appropriately qualified and experienced advanced practitioner is required to act as a nominated clinical supervisor for the duration of the module, for example a doctor, or someone with a master’s level advanced clinical practice qualification.
You gain advanced knowledge and skills in the areas of: •	investigative analysis, for example bloods and chest X-ray •	advanced clinical assessment including focused history, examination and diagnostics within the professional scope •	clinical management and case review in minor, acute, chronic and complex disease states with co-morbidity •	evidence-based therapeutic intervention in common minor, acute and chronic disease of body systems, including disorders of the following systems: pulmonary, cardiovascular, neurological, musculoskeletal, renal/GU, endocrine, gastrointestinal, haematology/oncology, HENT and skin.
The module is delivered face to face over six full day sessions delivered every other week.
Learning materials are made available via the blackboard ultra site as the module progresses.
Morning sessions will concentrate on synthesis of history, differential diagnosis, clinical reasoning, investigations, and underlying pathophysiology of body systems using case studies and class based discussion.
Afternoons will be used for you to practice your physical assessment skills in a focused way, combining examination of multiple body systems.
Work-based experience and independent learning will be a strong focus of this module to optimise application of knowledge to practice and this will be supported by a workbook.
The work-based experience will involve you developing knowledge and skills in the assessment and management of patient cases.
The summative assessment has two components.
1.
A modified objective structured long examination review (MOSLER), comprising a patient history, focused physical examination, formulation of a differential diagnosis, requesting appropriate investigations, and a plan for further management.
This will be observed by the clinical or academic supervisor, and a viva type discussion will then follow where the student will be expected to justify their actions and articulate the synthesis of their thought processes regarding the patient’s presentation and subsequent management.
This component is pass/fail.
2.
A 30-question online exam lasting 90 minutes comprising a mix of multiple choice and extended matching questions.
The percentage mark for the exam will be the overall mark for the module if both components are passed.
Both components need to be completed successfully to attain a pass.
You are assessed on your ability to: •	demonstrate safe clinical judgement in the application of core clinical skills and disease knowledge in undertaking the correct focused history and examinations pertinent to a patient's presentation •	delineate a working diagnosis based on analysis of the patient data obtained from the focused clinical assessment •	demonstrate a systematic and critical understanding of the use of best evidence in supporting the patient's clinical assessment and case management •	demonstrate capacity to critically evaluate the evidence on which the management plan is based for any limitations which may be pertinent to a patient's clinical profile •	demonstrate a systematic and critical understanding of the physiological processes associated with the presenting patient’s signs and symptoms.
As well as the interrelationship between signs and symptoms.
Applicants must: have already undertaken physical assessment / clinical skills training and be skilled in the assessment of all body systems, for example have undertaken the Physical Assessment Skills module or similar training be able to nominate an appropriately qualified and experienced advanced practitioner to act as a clinical supervisor for the duration of the module, for example a doctor, or someone with master’s level advanced clinical practice qualification, as they will carry out your summative practice assessment be currently employed in a specialist/advanced area of practice in a clinical role requiring a level of autonomy in diagnostics and case management, with appropriate access to advanced practitioners.
There are now many requirements for practitioners with physical assessment skills capacity in all areas of health care.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucppd_advancing_non-medical_prescribing.cfm:
Before submitting your application, you must read the entry requirements.
This will guide your completion of the application form.
Incomplete applications will not be considered.
This module provides nurses and allied health professionals (physiotherapists, radiographers, podiatrists, dietitians and paramedics who are working in advanced practice roles) with the knowledge and skills to prescribe safely and effectively.
You must work within your own scope of practice and area of competence, and as such be in a position to complete the care cycle in a holistic manner for clients within your care.
The 18-week module begins with a one-week initial block followed by attendance once a week, then a final block week of study via hybrid teaching including online learning and some face to face contact via seminars.
You are taught alongside students studying at level 6.
You spend 12 negotiated days in supervised supernumerary practice with a medical designated prescribing practitioner (DPP) or NMP practice assessor (PA) who acts as your practice assessor.
You should also spend time with other medical and non-medical prescribers; practice learning and assessment must be undertaken between weeks two and 17.
To facilitate the integration of theory and practice these practice days should span the entirety of the module.
The award is suitable if you are a health or social care practitioner who has completed cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) training and are BABCP accredited or working towards this.
Teesside University: online and face to face.
This multi-professional module prepares eligible nurses, midwives, specialist community public health nurses, physiotherapists, therapeutic radiographers, chiropodists/podiatrists and advanced paramedic practitioners to prescribe as independent/supplementary prescribers.
It also prepares dietitians and diagnostic radiographers to prescribe as supplementary prescribers.
This is within the professional standards stipulated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)/Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
The teaching team includes nurses, pharmacists, and medical practitioners, which provides many opportunities for shared learning.
You learn through hybrid interactive lectures, seminars of which some will be classroom based, guided study and discussion groups, and experiential learning.
Collaborative multi-professional working enables you to consider a whole systems approach to influencing and setting direction in the delivery of improvements in prescribing practice.
The virtual learning environment is used to support your learning.
Assessment includes a portfolio of evidence, a structured clinical examination of practice, written examination and evidence of having passed a period of supervised supernumerary practice experience.
Throughout you are supported and assessed by your DPP or PA.
You should ensure that you have exposure to other prescribers during this practice period.
All entry requirements must be in place before we can consider your application.
You must also: Complete a Prescribing Authorisation Form and upload this with your application.
You are advised to use this checklist before applying to ensure you meet all requirements.
You must: be an NMC registered first level nurse, midwife, and/or specialist community public health nurse and have normally at least three years post registration experience.
Of these three years, the year immediately preceding you must have been working in the clinical field in which you intend to prescribe.
Note: one year’s post registration experience applicants may be considered with discussion of appropriate experience.
If you work part-time you must have practiced for a sufficient period to be deemed competent by your employer or be registered with the HCPC in one of the relevant allied health professions and normally have at least three years relevant post-qualification experience in the clinical area in which you will be prescribing and be working at an advanced practitioner or equivalent level.
You must also: successfully pass a drug calculations test with a mark of 80% or more.
You can complete this here before submitting your application be professionally practicing in a role where there is an identified need to prescribe have a satisfactory up-to-date enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service check undertaken within the last three years and be current for the duration of the time you are studying the module evidence successful relevant study at academic level 6 within three years upon commencement of the module successfully complete a clinical skills module or have written evidence of equivalent assessment within practice have an identified designated prescribing practitioner (DPP) or NMP practice assessor (PA) who will provide supervision, support, and opportunities to develop your competence in practice.
if you are prescribing for children ensure you have a DPP or PA who is experienced and competent in prescribing for children have the support of your manager who must certify your clinical competence to prescribe and confirm that you will be supported to fulfil all the theory and practice required to study the module have the support of your organisational non-medical prescribing lead who must confirm that there are clinical governance arrangements in place to support prescribing provide a personal statement that details how you are going to utilise prescribing in your practice area and how this will impact the care of service users.
Note: you must declare if you have previously studied a prescribing programme at another higher education institution on your application.
or be registered with the HCPC in one of the relevant allied health professions and normally have at least three years relevant post-qualification experience in the clinical area in which you will be prescribing and be working at an advanced practitioner or equivalent level.
Professional recorded V300 qualification to the NMC independent/supplementary prescribing (nurses, midwives and specialist community public health nurses).
Professional annotation to the HCPC independent/supplementary prescribing (physiotherapists, podiatrists, therapeutic radiographers and advanced paramedic practitioners).
Professional annotation to the HCPC supplementary prescribing (diagnostic radiographers and dietitians).
Fee for applicants:
£1,710

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucppd_advancing_paediatric_physical_assessment_skills.cfm:
This course is for registered practitioners to develop their skills in caring for paediatric patients.
You enhance your knowledge and skills in history taking, anatomy and physiology of the paediatric patients, physical assessment, and diagnostic reasoning skills.
Sessions include both theoretical and practical learning, using case-based scenarios and simulated practice.
Learn about the cardiac system, respiratory system, HEENT (head, eyes, ears, nose and throat), abdominal system, skin and neurological systems.
You are assessed through a modified objective structured long examination review in week 14, lasting 40 minutes (pass/fail component).
You review a patient's history and articulate differential diagnoses, then undertake a focused physical examination and request appropriate investigations.
You review presented clinical findings and investigation results and interpret them to present a final diagnosis/diagnoses.
You are asked questions and are expected to justify your actions and critically articulate your thought-processes regarding the patient's presentation and subsequent management.
You also complete a multiple-choice question exam with 30 questions relating to the taught content.
You complete this in week 14 and must achieve a 50% pass mark for this component.
The percentage mark for the exam is the overall mark for the module if both components are passed.
You should: be a registered healthcare professional (Health and Care Professions Council or Nursing and Midwifery Council) have worked as a registered health professional with children in primary or secondary care for at least two years hold evidence of study at Level 6.
£855, Limited funded places available

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/engineering_&_construction/hnc_aeronautical_engineering.cfm:
Typical entry requirements: 64 points We consider each application individually.
The broad content means that you have multiple career options in both aerospace and other engineering industries.
We have extensive resources for delivering aeronautical engineering including an aerospace workshop with fixed wing and helicopter training aircraft, training rigs/equipment for aircraft systems such as an aircraft radar, and a range of piston and gas turbine engines including a Rolls Royce RB211 turbofan.
Other facilities supporting your course include a flight simulator system, subsonic wind tunnel and aerospace simulation and modelling software.
Tuition is provided by experienced engineering staff who have relevant industrial experience in the aeronautical engineering sector.
If you have a passion for aircraft, or you simply wish to develop into an engineer with wide and varied engineering skills applicable across a wide range of industries, then this course is right for you.
This course is delivered at Hartlepool College of Further Education and leads to a Teesside University award.
Aircraft Aerodynamics (HN)
You are introduced to atmospheric conditions in which aircraft fly and the scientific principles underpinning flight theory.
Explore key topics including the atmosphere, aerodynamic principles, flight forces and their effects, high-speed airflows, design features of high-speed aircraft, and concepts of stability and control.
Aircraft Electrical Power and Distribution Systems (HN)
Develop your understanding of the architecture, and components of aircraft power supplies and distribution systems.
You explore methods of generating, supplying, distributing and managing the electrical power required by typical modern aircraft, together with the purpose and operation of related components and sub-systems such as contactors, regulators, protection circuits and bus power control units.
Airframe Mechanical Systems (HN)
You study the design and operation of airframe mechanical systems, including hydraulic power, landing gear, flight control systems, environmental control systems, protection systems and airframe fuel systems.
Examine how these systems contribute to the safety of personnel, the aircraft airframe and its engines.
Engineering Design (HN)
You gain experience of carrying out a design project, giving you an appreciation of how design involves harmonising key parameters and blending them into the design solution, and to produce a design report.
You cover each stage of the process, including: client brief, planning, design specification, design report and evaluation.
Engineering Maths (HN)
You develop the fundamental analytical knowledge and techniques needed to successfully complete the core modules of Higher National Engineering programmes.
We provide you with the knowledge needed for further study of analytical methods and mathematics, required for more advanced option modules.
You explore fundamental algebra, trigonometry, calculus, statistics and probability, for the analysis, modelling and solution of realistic engineering problems at Higher National level.
This is a 15-credit module.
Engineering Science (HN)
You are introduced to the fundamental laws and applications of the physical sciences within engineering and how to apply this knowledge to find solutions to a variety of engineering problems.
You study international system of units, interpreting data, static and dynamic forces, fluid mechanics and thermodynamics, material properties and failure, and AC/DC circuit theories.
Managing a Professional Engineering Project (HN)
You are introduced to the techniques and best practices required to successfully manage an engineering project - from identifying a problem, through to finding a solution.
You consider the role and function of engineering in our society, the professional duties and responsibilities expected of engineers together with the behaviours that accompany their actions.
You cover: roles, responsibilities and behaviours of a professional engineer, planning a project, project management stages, devising solutions, theories and calculations, management using a Gantt chart, evaluation techniques, communication skills, and the creation and presentation of a project report.
Turbine Rotary Wing Mechanical and Flight System (HN)
You explore the roles of individual mechanical and electrical rotary wing flight systems and their interrelationships in modern integrated flight controls.
You are exposed to the need for Health and Usage Monitoring Systems (HUMS) and systems methods to overcome airframe fatigue failure.
You gain knowledge and understanding of aeronautical engineering and the necessary skills to analyse problems and applications.
The programme employs a range of learning and teaching methods including: • lectures • seminars • laboratory-based sessions • practical sessions • computer laboratory-based sessions • group work • projects.
Lectures cover core themes and explanations of difficult concepts, and set the scene for your independent learning.
You are encouraged to develop skills in listening and selective note taking, to appreciate how information is structured and presented.
The traditional format is enhanced by computer-based, or other audio-visual aids, and supported by interactive VLE-based provision of lecture notes.
Seminars provide a context for interactive learning and allow you to explore some of the more mathematical aspects of the modules in some depth.
In addition, they help develop skills including problem solving and communication.
Laboratory-based sessions develop practical and design skills and reinforce knowledge taught in lecture sessions.
You are required to test the measured data for consistency, evaluate the uncertainty and propose conclusions based upon critical evaluation of the measurements.
These sessions are also one of the methods used to increase awareness of safety related issues.
Safety instructions are given before commencement of laboratory activities and prior to using all specialist equipment.
You may design/operate equipment and/or procedures under supervision, but are expected to work at a professional or equivalent level.
Practical sessions allow you to develop many of the skills needed by technicians in the industry.
You work in small teams focusing your work around realistic industry-based problems.
Computer-based sessions give you the opportunity to use a range of software resources to test your designs or generate engineering drawings.
Group work encourages you to engage in group based industry-relevant case studies where appropriate.
The project is used to integrate the technical and design skills gained in the other modules, providing you with the opportunity to deal with many aspects of the design process and demonstrate the ability to operate ethically and with a degree of autonomy.
Each programme and module is supported by a specific VLE site containing all the information necessary for you to complete your studies.
Sites include electronic versions of module handbook, learning materials, assessment, support materials, discussion forum, links to useful websites and contact links to tutors.
You are encouraged to read widely around the subject content to enhance your understanding and to further develop the context of your study.
Textbooks are recommended for each module and many are now available through the library as e-books.
The course assesses your subject knowledge, independent thought and skills acquisition through • practical/laboratory reports • technical reports • simulation software for analysis and evaluation of designs • time constrained in class assessment • problem-solving exercises • written examinations • data interpretation exercises • analysis of case-studies • oral presentations • planning, conducting and reporting of project work • group work.
This is included in the programme handbook and individual module assessments are detailed in the module handbooks.
64 points including maths, from any combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications.
Examples include A-level, BTEC, Access to HE Diplomas, Scottish and Irish Highers, T-Level, or the International Baccalaureate.
We accept T-Levels which include Level 3 maths and cover topics in calculus.
Because this course is taught at Hartlepool College of Further Education, we are not accepting applications from international students requiring a Student Visa.
There are many roles that HNC-qualified employees take on, with the vast majority being technician-level jobs in the aerospace/aeronautical industries or the Armed Forces If you are aiming for a higher degree then by successfully completing your HNC Aeronautical Engineering you could seek direct entry to the second year of a BEng or MEng degree (with some additional study).
Available progressions routes include: BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering MEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering
Fee for UK applicants £4,635 a year

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/engineering_&_construction/msc_aerospace_engineering.cfm:
You develop knowledge and key skills in advanced aerospace structures, advanced fluid dynamics, finite element methods, sustainability, space mission analysis and trajectory design, and supply chain management.
You have access to our flight simulator, wind tunnel, materials and manufacturing labs, structural test labs and scanning electron microscope.
You also learn how to use industry-standard software such as the General Mission Analysis Tool (GMAT), NASA’s open-source software, Siemens NX and Ansys Fluent.
The General Mission Analysis Tool (GMAT) is the world’s only enterprise, multi-mission, open-source software system for space mission design, optimisation, and navigation.
The system supports missions’ in-flight regimes ranging from low Earth orbit to lunar, libration point, and deep space missions.
Advanced Aerospace Structures
Aircraft structures are characterised by their high strength to weight ratios - this is largely achieved by using monocoque and semi-monocoque thin walled components.
This module starts with a revision of torsion and shear flow and then explores the stress and shear flow distribution in loaded structures of increasing complexity.
You examine the effects of loading on symmetrical beams and asymmetrical beams before turning your attention to more realistic aircraft type semi-monocoque structures.
The emphasis is on hand calculation techniques to ensure that you are able to sensibly interpret the results of finite element analyses that you conduct in the future on similar structures.
Advanced Fluid Dynamics
This module covers multiphase flow and computational fluid dynamics for various engineering applications, and incompressible and compressible flow applicable to flight of subsonic and supersonic aircraft.
In addition it includes a revision of the fundamental fluid flow and thermodynamic governing equations, introduction to CFD, multiphase flow, subsonic and supersonic around wings, flow through nozzles and diffusers, oblique shock waves and expansion waves, shock wave and boundary layer interaction.
The module content will be delivered by lectures, seminars and laboratory sessions.
This will include a series of keynote lectures delivered by academic staff providing the core of the learning experience, supplemented by problem-solving seminars and IT-based laboratory sessions providing an opportunity to explore complex flows through the use of CFD codes.
Engineering Research Project
You investigate an area of engineering and work independently to a level recognised to be at the forefront of the discipline.
The topic can be in the form of a research project or a design project.
Key skills in research and in knowledge application and creation will be developed through keynote lectures and self-managed independent study.
You are required to demonstrate the capacity for a comprehensive and objective analysis, and for developing innovative and constructive proposals for the solution to the project topic.
Finite Element Methods
This module provides practical experience of using commercially available finite element packages.
The application of the method is demonstrated using a number of case studies.
You are encouraged to use the technique as an extension of your standard text books in solving design and manufacturing problems.
Space Mission Analysis and Trajectory Design
This module elaborates the fundamental concepts of space mission analysis, spaceflight orbital mechanics and introduces trajectory design for planet-centred and interplanetary missions.
You start with a short review of the mission selection process.
And you are introduced to the design and characterisation of planet-centred orbits and related orbit transfer manoeuvres.
The module investigates the mathematical modelling and analysis of orbital perturbation, Earth-bound and interplanetary trajectory design, gravity assist manoeuvres.
You are introduced to concepts of space system theory applied to missions around the Lagrange’s points.
Supply Chain Management
This module demonstrates how to benchmark an organisation and introduces you to the concepts of key performance indicators, total quality management (TQM), six sigma, total productive maintenance (TPM) and supply chain management.
You learn the manufacturing assessment methodology based on data provided in a benchmarking case study.
Topics covered in TQM, TPM, and supply chain management enable you to plan activities, which improve quality programme maintenance planning and supply chain integration for an organisation and move that organisation towards sustainable competitive advantage.
Sustainability
You will investigate how the role of the engineer is becoming more focused on serving society as well as industry and to recognise the impact of engineers’ decisions on society and the environment.
As engineers of the future, you will need to have a sustainable worldview, acknowledging international, cultural, and diversity issues in society.
In addition, you will also be expected to solve complex problems with consideration for multi-perspective views, long-term effects, risk, and the impacts of decisions on society.
This module will examine the key topics surrounding sustainability in the context of engineering applications across a range of disciplines and key future challenges such as energy, transport, and construction.
The subjects will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.
Lectures will develop key concepts and knowledge.
Seminars will allow more focused examinations of important issues and approaches.
You learn through lectures, tutorials and practical sessions.
Lectures provide the theoretical underpinning while practical sessions give you the opportunity to put theory into practice, applying your knowledge to specific problems.
Tutorials and seminars provide a context for interactive learning and allow you to explore relevant topics in depth.
In addition to the taught sessions, you undertake a substantive MSc research project.
Assessment varies from module to module.
The assessment methodology could include in-course assignments, design exercises, technical reports, presentations or formal examinations.
For your MSc project you prepare a dissertation.
You need a first degree in aerospace engineering or relevant engineering discipline equivalent to at least a UK second class (2.2) honours degree.
Relevant engineering disciplines includes aerospace, aeronautical, mechanical, and mechanical systems.
Students with a degree awarded outside the UK must also meet the University's minimum English language requirements.
International applicants who need a student visa to study in the UK should check our web pages on UKVI-compliant English language requirements.
The University also provides pre-sessional English language courses if you do not meet the minimum English language requirement.
Most aerospace engineering graduates seek careers in companies directly or indirectly linked to the aerospace industry.
However, the skills and knowledge you acquire are also relevant to other sectors such as the automobile, engineering process, oil and gas, electronics, electrical engineering and renewable energy industries.
Our BEng/MEng graduates from Aerospace Engineering course have secured work/placement opportunities with Airbus, BAE Systems, EDF Energy, Rolls-Royce, GE Aviation, Qinetiq, Cobham, Jacobs Engineering Group, Cummins, Labman, Caterpillar and others.
Accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for further learning for registration as a chartered engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng-accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) first degree to comply with full CEng registration requirements.
By completing an IMechE accredited degree, you meet part or all the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered or Incorporated Engineer and are in a strong position to achieve professional engineering status after a period of initial professional development in industry.
This accredited MSc meets part of the academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accredited MSc graduates who also have a BEng (Hons) accredited for CEng can show they have satisfied the educational base for CEng registration.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/engineering_&_construction/beng_(hons)_aerospace_engineering.cfm:
Typical entry requirements: 80 points We consider each application individually.
Accredited Foundation year Integrated masters Work placement
Student, Godly Shagee talks about his experience of studying aerospace engineering at Teesside University
You develop your knowledge and understanding of aerospace engineering subjects, including design, fluids, mechanics, flight control systems, structures, materials, propulsion, flight dynamics and aircraft performance.
Top reasons to study aerospace engineering at Teesside: International visits: you have opportunities to travel internationally through student mobility visits or spending a semester studying abroad with one of our partners in countries such as China, the Czech Republic, Spain and Malaysia.
Prepare for your studies: develop your understanding of maths with our free online Mathematics for University course.
Graduate Success: 90% of BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering students go on to work and/or study 15 months after the course (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2019-20 and 2020-21, tees.ac.uk/source ).
Quality teaching: 100% of aeronautical and aerospace engineering students agreed that teaching staff supported their learning.
(National Student Survey 2024, tees.ac.uk/source).
You are taught mainly at the University’s campus in Middlesbrough, but you have access to the extensive aerospace engineering workshops at Hartlepool College of Further Education.
These include a hanger with fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft, engines, and a wind tunnel.
Free transport is provided between the University and the college should you need it.
Aircraft Principles
This is a group project module which is part of the group project theme running through the engineering programmes.
This module introduces you to the practice of creating an engineered design and the organisational issues of controlling a group project.
It will provide you with the opportunity to work in a team in order to solve a well defined problem.
It will give you an understanding of their knowledge and limitations and the importance of working with other members of a team.
There is one week long assignment period allocated to this module and this allows the real time application of skills and knowledge developed in the preceding weeks to be applied to enable manufacture of the designed product.
Each group of students will be expected to produce a tangible output from the design and manufacturing work which will account for 60% of the module.
For the remaining 40% of marks you will be assessed on the group work process.
Electrical Principles (AC/DC)
This module will introduce you to the fundamentals of electrical circuit theory and how to apply it to analyse simple electric circuits.
The module will also introduce you to electromagnetic energy conversion and AC power.
The module is taught with lectures, seminars and related practical work.
Your lectures will provide an explanation of principles and discussion of applications.
Practical sessions will provide you an opportunity to develop practical skills through the use of laboratory setups that reinforce the lecture material.
Engineering Mathematics
This module introduces the range of mathematical skills that are relevant to an engineering degree.
You revisit and develop your knowledge of the fundamentals of algebra, trigonometry and basic statistics.
The central ideas of vectors, matrices, complex numbers, and differential and integral calculus are also examined.
Throughout the module you develop a range of mathematical skills and techniques fundamental to the solution of engineering problems.
You also advance your skills in selecting and applying mathematical techniques.
This module is delivered through a combination of lectures and tutorial sessions.
Materials and Sustainability
You look at engineering materials in lab-based practical sessions.
Fundamental relationships between processing, structure, properties and performance are explored to highlight factors which influence the suitability of materials for various engineering applications.
Structural Mechanics
This module introduces common types of structure used in engineering, assesses the types of loads they must resist and provides you with the analytical skills necessary to design the components that make up the structure.
Specific areas of study include: basic concepts of force, stress and strain; properties of materials and sections; analysis of frames, beams and columns; equilibrium conditions and statical determinacy; beam bending movement, shear force and deflection; and lightweight cables.
Lectures will introduce each major topic on the module with tutorials used to practise calculations.
Laboratory practicals are used to investigate the properties of construction materials and develop a deeper understanding of structural theory.
The module is assessed by in-course assignment and an examination, comprising calculations and short answer questions on the module indicative content.
Thermofluids
This module introduces the student to the basic principles of fluid mechanics, properties of fluids, hydrostatics, continuity equation, Bernoulli's equation, flow measurements, real flow in pipes, friction losses and momentum equation.
It deals with the transfer of heat, energy for solids, liquids and gases.
It explores the various mechanisms for this heat transfer and laws of thermodynamics, quantifies these mechanisms and applies them to mechanical systems, principally engines and compressors.
Aeroengines and Rocket Science
You look at the fundamental thermodynamics and operational characteristics of a range of engines and their components including gas turbines, jet engines, turbofans, turboshaft engines, ramjets, scramjets and rockets (which are used in aerospace applications) and torque power producing gas turbines (used in industrial and marine applications).
You explore the fundamental thermodynamics of engine operation, the equation for thrust calculations, Mach number, stagnation properties, shock waves, steady one dimensional flow, and analyses of flows through convergent and convergent-divergent nozzles.
You learn how to calculate the performance and efficiencies of the engine and its components.
Components include burners and afterburners, compressors, turbine and nozzles.
You also look at the calculation and analyses of flows through compressor and turbine blading stages, and fundamentals of rocket propulsion, trajectory analysis, and performance of solid and liquid rocket engines.
You attend a series of keynote lectures as well as problem-solving tutorials and practical investigations.
Aircraft Performance and Stability
This module will provide you with the opportunity to work in teams in order to solve industrially relevant design problems.
In the course of this module, you will develop employability skills such as project management, presentation of work, research and commercial awareness in order to support problem solving in a technical context.
This module develops your ability to use theoretical principles to the practice of creating an engineered design item, through group working activities.
A problem based learning approach is adopted and where appropriate, supporting lectures/ seminars will be delivered to include technical knowledge or skills development.
You will be assessed through two in-course assignments.
Aircraft Structures
This module studies the relationships between the external loads applied to a deformable body and the intensity of internal forces acting within the body, and the characteristics of the materials often found in aerospace applications.
The subject also involves calculating the deformations and stability and stability of a body when the body is subject to external loadings.
The module will develop the essential theory and fundamental principles of structural mechanics and will provide an insight into different materials and their characteristics, thus developing student knowledge, skills and ability to apply this knowledge in aerospace structural analysis and design.
Lectures on basic principles and then applications through analysis and laboratory experiments.
There is an increasing emphasis on self learning and the use of computational simulation.
Assessment will be in the form of written laboratory reports and an examination.
Avionics and Aircraft Systems
Avionics and aerospace systems are major constituents of all modern aerospace vehicles on which their overall performance and safety is critically dependent.
This module considers the development of avionics, investigates the principles that underpin avionic systems operation and examines the current types and applications of avionic systems in use.
The module develops your understanding of the engineering issues related to the specification, design and operation of aerospace systems and their overall performance and safe operation by providing an introduction to the types of systems found on aerospace vehicles and their main functions.
The module introduces the fundamental principles and concepts for avionics design including radio and radar technology, navigation systems, flight management systems and automatic flight control systems and focuses on the design and operation of hydraulic and flight control systems using standard engineering tools.
We use a variety of learning and teaching methods to create and maintain your involvement including lectures, practical activity using a flight simulator, assignments, presentations, seminar exercises and tutorials.
The module is assessed via an assignment and end-of-course exam.
This is a 20-credit module.
Dynamic Analysis and Aeroelasticity
Engineers are responsible for the design, construction, and testing of the devices we use.
In doing so, they need a deep understanding of the physics that underpins these devices, and must be familiar with mathematical models that predict system behaviour.
You learn how to analyze and predict the behaviour of physical systems by studying mechanics.
Dynamics is a branch of elementary mechanics that studies the object in motion.
The results obtained from dynamics directly apply to many fields of engineering.
This module develops the essential theories and fundamental principles of dynamic and vibration analysis, and enhances your knowledge, skills, and ability to apply them to the analysis of dynamic and vibration problems.
Integral Transforms and Matrices
You deepen your mathematical knowledge in key areas to use in a number of techniques to solve problems that arise in engineering domains.
You develop competence in identifying the most appropriate method to solve a problem and its application.
You are introduced to the techniques and principles, and you are provided with problems that develop your competency in applying these techniques.
You are shown how to implement numerical methods using software techniques.
Aerospace Materials Analysis
In the aircraft industry, there will continue to be a need for competent engineers skilled in structural design and analysis.
Such an engineer will have a sound understanding of aerospace materials and experience in the use of computer based structural analysis.
You gain an understanding of the material science and engineering necessary to appreciate the structure-property relationships involved in the principal metals, alloys, polymers, ceramics and composite materials used in the construction of aircraft and space vehicles.
You are introduced to finite element analysis using industry standard software.
You consider how to select appropriate materials for the different parts of an aircraft structure and how to analyse the performance of that structure to the loads applied to it.]
Analysis of Aerodynamics
Aerodynamics is an applied science which finds practical application in many areas of engineering.
Irrespective of the complexity of a particular problem, the use of aerodynamics is typically aimed to provide insight into either the loadings on a body moving through air or determination of airflows moving through or around physical systems.
This module aims to give a broad introduction to aerodynamics, developing the fundamentals of the discipline and applying these to a number of examples and case studies involving both streamlined and bluff bodies.
A key aspect of the module is to provide practical experience of the use of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software to analyse a variety of flows.
Lectures will be used to introduce techniques and underlying principles.
Tutorials will provide the opportunity for you to deepen understanding and develop competence in the application of these.
Assessment is by an in-course written report and an end examination.
Electric Power Systems
This module aims to provide you with the capability to design and analyse electrical power circuits and systems.
You learn a broad range of topics related to generation and conversion of electrical power.
The module is delivered through a combination of lectures, guided reading, laboratory sessions and tutorials.
Extensive use of modern experimental facilities will give you the opportunity to explore electrical power systems and to gain a deep understanding of practical constraints.
Flight Dynamics and Control
This module aims to introduce the equations of motion for rigid symmetrical aircraft, to develop simplified models for characteristic motions and to enable students to understand the response of an aircraft to control inputs and disturbances.
It develops the concepts of classical control and applies these to controlling an aircraft.
The module also introduces the notion of computer programming as a tool to enable development and design in flight dynamics and control.
The module will be delivered via lectures, seminars and IT laboratories.
Assessment will be via an assignment of no more than 1500 words and a 3 hour time-constrained assessment.
Project
This module extends the development of independent learning skills by allowing you to investigate an area of engineering or technology for an extended period.
You receive training in writing technical reports for knowledgeable readers and you produce a report or dissertation of the work covered.
In addition, you give an oral presentation, a poster presentation or both.
You develop key skills in research, knowledge application and creation through keynote lectures where appropriate and self-managed independent study.
Support is provided through regular tutorial sessions.
You learn through lectures, seminars and hands-on lab sessions.
You are also expected to undertake self-guided study to review lecture notes, prepare coursework assignments, work on projects and revise for assessments.
You undertake occasional visits to the aerospace engineering workshops at Hartlepool College of Further Education.
Free transport is provided between the University and the college.
You are assessed through coursework assignments, project reports and formal exams.
96-112 UCAS points including maths, from any combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications including A-level, BTEC, Access to HE Diploma, Scottish and Irish Highers, T-Level, or the International Baccalaureate.
We accept the following T-Levels: Design and Development for Engineering and Manufacturing Design, Surveying and Planning for Construction (specialism Civil Engineering) Maintenance, Installation and Repair for Engineering and Manufacturing from City & Guilds.
See the full list of level 3 qualifications and how many points your qualifications are worth by using the UCAS tariff calculator .
Accredited prior learning You may be able to join onto year two or three if you’ve studied a HNC or HND.
If you don’t have a qualification but have gained relevant credits at Level 4 in a related subject, then credit transfer may be possible.
Alternative routes into this course are available if you have not met the entry requirements as listed.
International students who need a student visa to study in the UK should check our international web pages on acceptable international qualifications and UKVI-compliant English language requirements.
We prepare you for the world of work by giving you the opportunity to go on work placements, take part in industry events and to undertake industry-relevant project work.
You gain skills relevant to the aerospace industry and other sectors including automotive, process, oil and gas, electronics, electrical engineering, manufacturing and energy industries.
Our Student Futures careers and employability team can help you map out your future career.
Aerospace engineering graduate destinations include employers such as: BAE SYSTEMS, Cobham, Baker Hughes, Express Engineering Ltd, Ford Aerospace Ltd, and many others.
Working as an aerospace engineer .
Accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council for meeting the requirement for registration as an incorporated engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a chartered engineer.
This accredited BEng (Hons) fully meets the academic benchmark requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
It also meets part of the academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer and you must complete an approved format of further learning to carry out the requirements of UK-SPEC.
BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering (with Foundation Year)
Study this course with an integrated masters - you study three years at undergraduate level and one year at postgraduate level.
MEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering
Having always had a passion for flight, aerospace engineering has been a perfect choice for Godly.
Meet Godly
David is preparing for an exciting career in the aerospace industry.
Meet David
Dillon received the £5,000 Dr Ken Home scholarship to help with his studies.
Meet Dillon
Royal appointment for student start-up company A business founded by two Teesside University aerospace engineering students has won a prestigious entrepreneurial award.
Ambitious projects set students on a journey to success Students at Teesside University could be sky high with two unique projects which are putting their design skills to the test.
Space launch company wins prestigious award A business founded by two Teesside University aerospace engineering students which plans to launch the first civilian space mission in the UK has won a major start-up competition.
You have the opportunity to travel internationally through student mobility visits, or you could spend a semester studying abroad with one of our partners in countries such China, the Czech Republic, Spain and Malaysia.
Find out more about how studying a STEM subject opens up a range of career opportunities
Aerospace engineering student Chris Henry talks about his work placement at Baker Hughes a GE company

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/engineering_&_construction/meng_(hons)_aerospace_engineering.cfm:
Typical entry requirements: 112 points We consider each application individually.
This course includes an integrated masters - you study three years at undergraduate level and one year at postgraduate level.
Real-world experience: a flight test experience is included as part of your course at no extra cost.
You are taught at the University’s campus in Middlesbrough, but also have access to the extensive aerospace engineering workshops at Hartlepool College of Further Education.
This is a multi-disciplinary module on fixed-wing aircraft.
It covers fundamental concepts of the rigid-body aircraft and its degree of freedom.
The main purpose of the module is to introduce the student to the calculation and analysis of aircraft flight performance and stability, with focus on steady-state or quasi steady flight.
The flight conditions considered include ground manoeuvre, take-off and landing, cruise condition, and turning.
The module will be delivered in a combination of lectures/ tutorials and experimental flight programme.
The module will look to establish preparatory experimental design, implementation and analysis of flight data.
This module will be assessed by a combination of in-course assessments and an examination.
Integrated Masters Project
This module extends the development of independent learning skills by allowing the student to investigate an area of engineering for an extended period.
The student will work independently or in a small team, but will produce individual work.
Training will be given in writing technical reports for knowledgeable readers and the student will produce a report/dissertation of the work covered.
In addition, the student will give an oral presentation, poster presentation or both.
Key skills in research, knowledge application and creation will be developed through keynote lectures and self-managed independent study.
Advanced Engineering Group Project
You work as part of a group to develop a significant solution to an engineering design challenge.
This includes the development of a product through the stages of concept, preliminary design, detailed design, fabrication and critical evaluation.
Your develop team leadership attributes and the project will prepare you for professional practice by exploring workplace diversity and inclusion issues.
You reflect on security implications and mitigations, including commercial, ethical and social concerns.
This module covers incompressible and compressible aerodynamics applicable to flight of subsonic and supersonic aircraft, and introduces hypersonic flow applicable to re-entry vehicles.
The content of this module includes a revision of the fundamental fluid flow and thermodynamic governing equations, subsonic and supersonic around wings, flow through nozzles and diffusers, oblique shock waves and expansion waves, fundamentals of boundary layers, convective heat transfer, viscous high temperature flows, and experimental methods for hypersonic flows.
The module content will be delivered through the use of lectures, seminars, laboratory sessions, problem solving tutorials and IT laboratory sessions providing an opportunity to explore complex flows through the use of CFD codes.
Assessment will comprise of a laboratory report compiled from practical laboratory investigations and an end exam.
This module elaborates the fundamental concepts of space mission analysis, spaceflight orbital mechanics and introduces trajectory design for planet centred and interplanetary missions.
It starts with a short review of mission selection process and introduces the design and characterisation of planet-centred orbits and related orbit transfer manoeuvres.
The module investigates the mathematical modelling and analysis of orbital perturbation, Earth-bound and interplanetary trajectory design, and gravity assist manoeuvres.
An introduction to concepts of space system theory applied to missions around the Lagrange’s points will be covered.
A variety of teaching and learning methods will be used to create and maintain student involvement including lectures, practical activity using the industry standard software such as General Mission Analysis Tool (GMAT), an open source NASA software, seminars, problem solving exercises and tutorials.
Sustainability (MEng)
You investigate how the role of the engineer is becoming more focused on serving society as well as industry and to recognise the impact of engineers’ decisions on society and the environment.??
As engineers of the future, you need to have a sustainable worldview, acknowledging international, cultural, and diversity issues.
In addition, you solve complex problems with consideration for multi-perspective views, long-term effects, risk, and the impacts of decisions on society.
112-128 points including maths, from any combination of acceptable Level 3 qualifications.
Accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council for meeting the academic requirement for registration as a chartered engineer.
This accredited MEng fully meets the academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Final year £8,365
Student aerospace project reaches for the stars thanks to funding boost A start-up company founded by two aerospace engineering students has been given a boost thanks to funding from the University Alliance.
Students showcase their research at national conference Students involved in research at Teesside University have been invited to present their work at a national conference.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/postgraduate_courses/engineering_&_construction/msc_aerospace_engineering_(with_advanced_practice).cfm:
The system supports missions’ in-flight regimes ranging from low Earth orbit to lunar, libration point, and deep space missions.There are three routes you can select from to gain a postgraduate master’s award: MSc Aerospace Engineering – one year full time MSc Aerospace Engineering – two years part time MSc Aerospace Engineering (with Advanced Practice) – two years full time The one-year programme is a great option if you want to gain a traditional MSc qualification.
The two-year master’s degree with advanced practice enhances your qualification by adding a vocational or research-based internship to the one-year master’s programme.
A research internship provides you with the opportunity to develop your analytical, team-working, research and academic skills by working alongside a research team in an academic setting.
We guarantee a research internship, but cannot guarantee a vocational internship.
We will, however, provide you with practical support and advice on how to find and secure your own vocational internship position should you prefer this type of internship.
The one-year programme is a great option if you want to gain a traditional MSc qualification.
Advanced Practice is normally undertaken over a one semester period and has been developed to enable a student to gain real-world practical experience to enhance their employability and academic learning.
Students will receive preparatory sessions to enable them to apply to internship opportunities, which normally include: Vocational internships with external organisations based offsite Research or development internships based on campus Employer-led internships based on campus Students will undertake an appropriate advanced practice opportunity to meet their skill set and aspirations, related to their course.
All students will be assigned an academic supervisor to provide academic and pastoral support throughout their internship.
Students will be assessed through a reflective report on a pass/fail basis.
This module does not count towards the overall classification of the degree.
In addition to the taught sessions, you undertake a substantive MSc research project and the advanced practice module.
This module enables you to experience and develop employability or research attributes and experiential learning opportunities in either an external workplace, internal research environment or by studying abroad.
You also critically engage with either external stakeholders or internal academic staff, and reflect on your own personal development through your advanced practice experience.
It may include in-course assignments, design exercises, technical reports, presentations or formal examinations.
Your advanced practice module is assessed by an individual written reflective report, together with a study or workplace log, where appropriate, and through a poster presentation.
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to comply with full CEng registration requirements.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/engineering_&_construction/beng_(hons)_aerospace_engineering_(with_foundation_year).cfm:
Accredited Integrated masters Work placement
Engineering Design and Modelling
You are introduced to the importance of design, modelling, and simulation in engineering.
You explore the design process and how it is applied.
Explore design using techniques such as sketching, formal engineering drawing, design calculations, and written commentary.
Aspects of engineering design using mechanical and electrical engineering are introduced, including control, design, and simulation.
Technical aspects including manufacturing drawing, modelling, rapid prototyping are also explored.
You use mathematical modelling software to develop models of typical engineering problems and simulate their response under different conditions.
Foundation Engineering Principles
You are introduced to the physical, thermal, fluid, electrical and mechanical systems in engineering and the scientific laws and principles that govern them.
Foundation Mathematics
You are introduced to mathematical notation and techniques.
The emphasis is on developing the skills that enable you to analyse and solve engineering problems.
Topics studied include number, algebraic manipulation and equations, the solution of triangles, an introduction to vectors and an introduction to probability and descriptive statistics.
Professional Practice in Engineering
You are introduced to a variety of skills and techniques in engineering, teaching you a range of personal and professional skills essential to study, employability, and professional life.
An engineer is a problem-solver, and this module gives you an introduction to the lab equipment and skills needed to measure, analyse, and present a range of engineering topics.
You take part in practical engineering activities, providing you with the basic concepts of materials, structures, mechanics, and electronics.
Any combination of recognised Level 3 qualifications.
We look for evidence of your ability to learn and your commitment to succeed in your studies.
Maths requirement GCSE maths at grade 4+ or equivalent.
International students who need a student visa to study in the UK should check our web pages on UKVI-compliant English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/masterclass_ahp_practice_educator_training_update_day.cfm:
Our regulatory body, the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), require all health care practitioners involved in the supervision and assessment of Allied Health Profession (AHP) pre-registration learners to be trained, so this masterclass meets that need.
Funding: funded places may be available.
Please liaise with your organisation for funding opportunities.
Self-funded: to access this on a self-funding basis you must pay the fee before the start of the masterclass using the online shop.
Pay now on our online shop
The masterclass runs over one day.
In the morning session, you join other AHPs to consider: •	current drivers within practice-based learning placements •	supportive learning environments •	equality, diversity, inclusion and belonging.
In the afternoon session, you meet with your AHP academic course team to discuss practice education matters relevant to your specific profession.
No assessment.
For registered and non-registered healthcare workers involved in the supervision and/or assessment of Teesside University pre-registration AHP learners (students and apprentices).
You require access to an electronic device with internet access and sufficient screen (PC, laptop or tablet) to fully engage with online sessions.
Fee for applicants: £170

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/business_management_&_enterprise/cert_he_ai_and_digital_skills_for_business_impact.cfm:
Explore the world of business in our unique, dynamic region.
With landmark developments, ongoing regeneration, and opportunities for students and graduates, the Tees Valley is your gateway to a thriving career.
This apprenticeship provides the learner with the knowledge and skills necessary to deliver technology-enabled solutions for internal and external customers.
This apprenticeship has been carefully designed to provide a high-quality learning experience, with a strong focus on work-based learning and engagement.
Aligned with the Business Analyst Standard set by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IfATE), we support apprentices in acquiring valuable on-the-job experience while offering a structured pathway for future professional development.
Learners benefit from an integrated approach that combines academic study with practical workplace application.
Your business gains capable, reflective, and forward-thinking business analysts who are equipped with the core knowledge, practical skills, and professional behaviours to succeed in various business environments.
Top reasons your business needs an AI and Digital Skills for Business Impact apprentice: Learner-centred approach with a supportive framework of academic mentors, apprenticeship-quality coaches, and access to institutional support services.
Learners gain the skills, knowledge, and behaviours to enhance their business acumen.
Businesses gain an understanding of the current organisational situation, identifying future needs, and defining solutions to meet their digital technology needs.
Learners have the confidence to make recommendations for improvement in HR, processes and IT.
We have partnered with leading business and financial adviser Grant Thornton UK LLP to launch this apprenticeship.
The programme is rooted in real-world business experience and offers participants the opportunity to develop future-proof digital skills.
Teesside University International Business School is a proud signatory of the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative, aiming to raise the profile of sustainability and responsible leadership globally, and equip leaders with the skills to deliver positive change.
The apprenticeship is taught through blended study.
Data Essentials
Data is the lifeblood of modern business; leveraging it effectively can transform your organisation.
Learners explore techniques for managing data as a strategic business asset.
Through data modelling, learners define a business information system and look at how the system can interact with and leverage stored data to fuel business growth and operational effectiveness.
The development of successful, reliable, and user-friendly systems or applications starts with understanding stakeholder needs and creating a well-structured design.
They explore key principles and methods in systems analysis and design, to deconstruct and simplify complex systems.
They represent these systems visually using industry-standard modelling techniques – which play a crucial role in the industry, serving as a bridge between design and implementation by developers and stakeholders.
Learners gain professional practice and transferable skills and develop essential skills such as, communicating design ideas, mapping workflows with process models, and gathering user requirements—which are all highly valued skills in industry.
GenAI for Business Transformation
The learner explores the fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), and Generative AI (GenAI), focusing on their transformative potential in business contexts.
They learn key AI and ML principles, concepts, and algorithms, and explore how GenAI can automate and streamline business operations.
Learners combine theoretical understanding with practical application, to evaluate and implement GenAI solutions for real-world business problems.
Learners are assessed by an in-course assignment in the form of a portfolio of work that demonstrates the application of the typical application of GenAI in business case studies.
Managing Business Transformational Change
In today’s rapidly evolving business landscape, technology and the ability to harness its potential are reshaping industries and driving transformation.
Business analysts (BA) are central in accelerating change and encouraging innovation.
Learners gain a comprehensive understanding of organisational change and the BA’s role as a change agent.
They explore the competencies required to become a successful BA alongside understanding change models, strategic thinking, and the BA’s responsibilities in guiding transformational change.
Modelling Business Processes
In today’s competitive business environment, the ability to analyse and improve internal processes is crucial for organisational success.
Learners explore business process modelling (BPM) as a tool for visualising, analysing, and enhancing business operations.
They explore industry-standard techniques such as BPMN, UML Activity Diagrams, and EPCs, and examine how process modelling supports strategic alignment, efficiency, and innovation.
Learners also consider the influence of the microeconomic environment on process design and develops practical skills in identifying, mapping, and improving business processes using methodologies and tools such as Lean and Six Sigma.
Learners reflect on the competencies needed to become a successful business analyst (BA), including understanding business process modelling, strategic thinking, and the BA’s responsibilities in driving transformational change.
We deliver the apprenticeship through a blended delivery model combining on-campus sessions with online learning, including synchronous and asynchronous components.
This approach ensures learners benefit from structured, interactive teaching while also having the flexibility to engage with materials at their own pace, supporting a balance between work, study and personal commitments.
Apprentices complete four modules, each carefully sequenced to build core competencies in business analysis.
Each module runs over a ten-week period, delivered in the following order: 1.
Managing Business Transformational Change 2.
Data Essentials 3.
Modelling Business Processes 4.
Generative AI for Business Transformation We offer the course part-time, and teaching is delivered both online and in person at our Middlesbrough and London campuses.
There are three entry points throughout the academic year: September, January, and May.
This allows for flexible enrolment aligned with employer and learner needs.
Each module is worth 30 credits and is non-compensable.
Completing all four modules is required to progress and complete the apprenticeship.
Learners are assessed in a variety of ways to develop academic and professional skills, as well as enhance confidence in workplace communication.
Assessments may include: •	Individual presentations to develop communication and stakeholder engagement skills.
•	Reflective piece to encourage critical thinking, problem-solving and self-awareness.
•	Individual business process modelling report to demonstrate analytical and technical skills.
•	Business case modelling report focused on decision-making and solution design.
•	Design of a business information system, applying structured analysis.
•	Portfolio showcasing learners’ understanding and application of Generative AI (GenAI) in a business context.
To be accepted on to a degree apprenticeship course you must have support from your employer and meet the course entry requirements.
The apprentice must be employed in a relevant job role to undertake this apprenticeship and have agreement from you as the employer, including the commitment to a minimum of six hours per week off-the-job training.
You as the employer sets the general internal selection criteria but the apprentice is also required to meet the entry requirements specified by the University.
A typical learner would have 96 tariff points from at least two A levels (or equivalent).
For apprentices aged 16–18 (on the first day of their apprenticeship), achieving Level 2 English and maths (GCSE grade 4/C or Level?2 Functional Skills) remains mandatory before completion.
For apprentices aged 19 and over, the Level 2 English and maths requirement is now optional.
English & maths training can be included where agreed by the apprentice and employer.
However, the University would also welcome mature learners without conventional entry requirements, and can take into account alternative qualifications and experience.
Apprentices could go on to become business analysts.
Business analysts play a key role in multidisciplinary teams, collaborating with different groups of stakeholders to understand and communicate how digital solutions can support the organisation's needs.
Their responsibilities would include: investigating business situations, analysing problems and opportunities for improvement, investigating and analysing business processes, understanding data and business information needs, and documenting requirements for digital and business change solutions.
Employer Apprenticeship Levy investment £18,000

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/business_management_&_enterprise/non-accredited_cpd_ai_in_leadership_(cpd).cfm:
As with any powerful technology, there are challenges and risks associated with its use.
We are here to equip you with the skills, knowledge, and competencies you need to effectively leverage the power of Generative AI in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Our programme is designed to help you navigate the ethical, regulatory and sustainability challenges associated with Generative AI, while providing you with the tools and strategies needed to effectively use this technology to drive innovation, growth and competitiveness.
From increasing your awareness and understanding of Generative AI to developing effective strategies for implementing AI solutions in the SME context, our programme helps you harness the full potential of this powerful technology.
With no formal assessments, this unaccredited CPD course allows participants to focus on developing practical skills without the pressure of exams, encouraging the application of knowledge directly in the workplace.
Completing this course enhances your ability to integrate AI into your business, giving you a competitive edge.
Staying current with technological advancements is highly valued by employers and positions you as a forward-thinking leader.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/aviation_&_tourism/ba_(hons)_airline_and_airport_management_(top-up).cfm:
Our students had the opportunity to discuss space exploration, customer experience, marketing priorities, sustainable objectives and Net Zero with industry leaders.
From check-in, security, and consumer shopping, through to managing passengers, VIP lounges and boarding, this course allows you to walk in the passenger’s shoes to meet the demands of existing and future passengers in a very crowded market.
You examine future airline and airport trends, focusing on the need for airlines to differentiate in a competitive market, and create innovative business models to support global economic growth.
You explore the evolution of the industry, and the value of air travel in opening up the world to us, looking at the importance of connectivity and how ambitious aviation strategies can bring together people and places.
Develop your business acumen, vocational expertise and management insight by studying key theories and current practices, including crisis and safety management, consumer and marketing theories, dealing with difficult people, managing teams, counter terrorism, business resilience, and service levels.
This course includes a number of domestic and international trips.
They are optional and not included in your tuition fees.
Top reasons to study airline and airport management with us: Quality teaching – you are taught by industry professionals who have worked for global brands.
Industry input – leading collaborations with national and international sector organisations, which provide a wealth of guest lectures and field visits to facilitate your professional and research opportunities.
Work experience – take part in a range of work experience opportunities including placements and internships with regional, national and global businesses.
Skills for the future – 100% of tourism, transport and travel students agreed that their course has developed the knowledge and skills they think they will need for their future (National Student Survey 2024, tees.ac.uk/source).
Teesside Aviation Skills Academy Spend time in a purpose-built classroom at Teesside International Airport, learning from people who work in the industry.
Talentview Aviation An employment resource hub for our aviation students to access graduate roles, opportunities and visibility by employers across the UK aviation industry.
Airports Council International (ACI) Europe Airports Council International (ACI) Europe is committed to the pursuit of excellence in airport management through education and training.
Our membership provides the benefits of ACI information, data and sustainability forecasting to our students.
Institute for Travel and Tourism (ITT) We are a member of the Institute for Travel and Tourism (ITT), giving you access to a dedicated ITT Future You Talent Hub, helping to inspire the next generation of travel and tourism experts.
As an ITT member you can engage with national and international events and develop your professional network with organisations including British Airways, Advantage, ABTA, Business Travel Association and many more.
Global Aviation Challenges
Consider the aviation industry's increasingly complex infrastructure, examining the impact of emerging commercial opportunities and challenges from flexibility and sustainability imperatives.
You analyse and question theories of modernity and best practice in the consumption of aviation business within macro and regional variabilities.
Independent Project
Conduct a business project related to your subject area, allowing you to demonstrate your capability in undertaking an individual piece of research.
This may be an investigation of a practical business issue, a relevant issue of academic interest, or a live problem-solving project.
Safety Operations and Governance
Explore management issues and decision making connected to safety operations and governance.
You focus in-depth on safety management, workplace safety and best practice for civil aviation.
Exposure to complex real-world scenarios allows you to develop your problem-solving skills.
Service Driven Trends in Aviation
Passenger experience is critical to the aviation industry, with a competitive market meaning organisations must provide elevated services to succeed.
You explore how civil aviation providers adapt to meet the priorities of their customers.
Modules are taught through seminars, practical workshops and group work.
You have the opportunity to co-create resources and collaborate in our state-of-the-art Teesside University International Business School.
Senior teaching staff also adopt a range of web-based technologies to deliver module and programme content in order to assess, provide feedback and communicate with you.
You also have the opportunity to visit aviation organisations as part of the programme in order to develop your awareness of developments from within the sector.
The course focuses on providing you with the necessary underpinning in terms of broad airline and airport knowledge and skills.
It introduces key business and management concepts.
The programme is assessed through a variety of interactive and innovative methods including presentations, debates, peer reviews, co-creation of assets, and essays.
The methods used enable you to apply much needed skills at operational and managerial level in aviation.
You need a foundation degree or higher national diploma (or equivalent) in a business and/or tourism-related subject.
When applying through UCAS, make sure that you indicate your point of entry as Year 3.
For additional information please see our entry requirements International applicants can find out what qualifications they need by visiting Your Country
You learn to adapt to new and emerging circumstances, which is essential for a career in aviation.
Connect your classroom learning with practical experiences in a professional environment, through field trips and visits with key organisations, gaining the knowledge and employability skills you need to succeed in your chosen career.
Aviation is a truly global sector, offering many opportunities for dynamic and diverse career prospects.
These could be working for airports, airlines, or third-party work.
Some of these are: aeroplane manufacturing air crew air traffic control airfield operations airline operations airline training airport director airport manager airport operations airport security manager aviation regulation baggage handling border agency cargo management commercial aircraft worthiness freight companies IT services marketing meteorologist procurement.
Visit the UK Civil Aviation Authority to discover more careers in the industry.
Apply online (full-time) through UCAS
Senior Lecturer Beverley Boden takes her business and tourism management students on a trip to Newcastle Airport
Jordan's course helped land her a job as a Passenger Service Operative at Newcastle Airport.
Meet Jordan
This innovative and flexible online top up degree helps you develop the skills and knowledge valued by employers and give your CV a boost, enabling you to build on your previous qualifications (such a...
View a full list of courses in Aviation & Tourism.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/undergraduate_courses/aviation_&_tourism/ba_(hons)_airline_and_airport_management_(top-up)_(online).cfm:
We consider each application individually.
Examine future trends, focusing on the need for airlines to differentiate in a competitive market and create innovative business models to support global economic growth.
Explore the evolution of the industry and the value of air travel in opening up the world, looking at the importance of connectivity and how ambitious aviation strategies can bring people and places together.
Develop your business acumen, vocational expertise and management insight by studying key theories and current practices, including crisis and safety management, consumer and marketing theories, dealing with difficult people, team management, counter-terrorism, business resilience and service levels.
Top reasons to study airline and airport management with us: Learn from industry professionals who have worked for global brands.
Study 100% online – at your own pace, in your own space.
Gain excellent industry insight from within the sector, with a unique glimpse into the field through guest lectures.
You’re also invited to attend the annual Aviation and Tourism Conference in person or online.
Gain access to the online student community platform, with tutors who provide continuous feedback and guidance.
Access our Launchpad webinars and tap into a world of experience and expertise.
From improving your leadership and management skills, to top tips for becoming a freelancer, Launchpad can help you start a business.
You learn through lectures, seminars, guest speakers, tutorials and workshops.
Through online discussion and debates, you develop solutions to strategic challenges in aviation using real-world scenarios, creative dialogue, industry insights, and field visits where possible to grow as an emerging leader.
You are assessed through a variety of interactive and innovative ways, including presentations, debates, peer reviews, co-creation of assets and essays.
You apply much-needed skills at the operational and managerial level in aviation.
You must have a foundation degree or Higher National Diploma (or equivalent) in a business or tourism-related subject.
You learn to adapt to new and emerging circumstances, essential for a career in aviation.
You attend field trips and visits with key organisations, connecting your classroom learning with practical experiences in a professional environment, and gaining the knowledge and employability skills you need to succeed.
Aviation is a truly global sector, offering opportunities for a dynamic and diverse career.
Employers include airports, airlines or third-party work, with roles such as: aeroplane manufacturing air crew air traffic control airfield operations airline operations airline training airport director airport manager airport operations airport security manager aviation regulation baggage handling border agency cargo management commercial aircraft worthiness freight companies IT services marketing meteorologist procurement.
Software requirements
Fee for all applicants £9,510 a year
£1,585 for each 20 credits.
Fee for all applicants £4,635 (120 credits)
£772.50 for each 20 credits.
Email: onlinelearning@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/art_&_design/certificate_an_introduction_to_fashion_styling.cfm:
You also explore the process of styling for editorial, commercial, and personal circumstances through case studies and simulated clients, the influences of trends, mainstream media, and social platforms.
You develop a digital outcome using fashion imagery, industry-targeted mood-boards, simulation, and online resources.
Each week you develop skills to effectively execute your own styling portfolio.
Start date: Starts Tuesday 1 July, Tuesday and Thursdays for 4 weeks, 6.00pm-9.00pm
• trends • fashion styling • online interactive seminars and group discussion • fashion editorials • research • visual presentation of ideas • reflective practice • communication methods and techniques for fashion communication • the process of fashion shoots • fashion case studies • short creative research challenges and tasks.
You are assessed through your portfolio of work.
Ensure your laptop or PC can run Adobe Creative Suite.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/art_&_design/certificate_an_introduction_to_fine_art.cfm:
Start date: Starts Tuesday 3 June, Tuesday and Thursdays for 4 weeks, 6.00pm-9.00pm
- Contexts of contemporary fine art - Creative practice and the development of key skills - Painting - Drawing - Sculpture - New media - The creative process and concept development - Interactive group practice and group critiques - Project presentations and reflective summary
Portfolio ICA 100% There is one summative assessment point at the end of the module which assesses all learning outcomes.
You will submit a portfolio of project work to demonstrate that you have achieved the learning outcomes

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/art_&_design/certificate_an_introduction_to_graphic_design_and_illustration.cfm:
You explore these key principles and language of the subject and follow the process from interpreting the brief to communicating creative ideas.
No previous knowledge is assumed and you are encouraged to explore a range of ideas, processes and methods while completing a negotiated project.
- key principles and contexts of graphic design and illustration - create visual communications and communicate them using a variety of media processes and methods - originate and present imaginative designs in your own subject area - the creative process and concept development - creatively explore the use of text and image
You are assessed through a portfolio of creative work (100%).
Access to the following programs: - Adobe InDesign - Adobe Photoshop - Adobe Illustrator When you enrol on this course you can access Adobe Suite through your student account for the duration of your course.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/art_&_design/certificate_an_introduction_to_interior_design.cfm:
No previous knowledge is assumed and you are encouraged to explore a range of ideas, processes and methods while you complete a negotiated personal project.
- the stages of a professional interior design project - contexts of contemporary interior design - the creative process and concept development - using colour, lighting, scale and materials - exploring the using of space, planning and circulation - project presentations and reflective summary.
You are assessed through the development and presentation of your personal project (100%).
You should be competent in Microsoft Word and Microsoft PowerPoint.
Experience of Adobe Creative Suite (InDesign and Photoshop) is desirable but not essential.
You have access to Adobe Creative Suite for the duration of the course, but this course does not  teach how to use industry-standard software.
You produce digital mood boards and project work using any of the above software packages.
Access to a Pinterest account is desirable.
Required equipment -	tape measure -	paper/sketch book -	pencil -	standard ruler.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucce_an_introduction_to_supportive_care_for_people_with_cancer_and_other_long_term_conditions.cfm:
You are facilitated by a practice mentor based in your work environment.
You also use a workbook with learning resources, completing each section for evidence.
You have the opportunity to reason and reflect throughout the workbook with the support of your mentor - this gives you the confidence to support the patient or client in a way that is relevant to your role, enhancing your interaction with patients, clients and their relatives.
You attend an initial half-day induction followed by distance learning.
This method of open learning facilitates work-based learning in a non-threatening environment - this encourages and rewards effort and addresses a growing need for accredited education in The Northern Cancer Alliance (Northern England Clinical Network).
Through the support of a practice mentor, you identify your learning needs depending on your experience and the area in which you work.
You liaise with your manager to choose a work-based mentor to give you support and facilitation, whilst completing the workbook.
Each section of the workbook has three stages of learning: 1.
current knowledge and understanding 2.
study learning resources and applying to practice 3.
reflecting on your learning.
After reading or viewing evidence in the Study and Apply section, you have questions to complete as part of this workbook assessment to share with your mentor.
This enables your practice mentor to help you apply your understanding to your particular role with clients or patients in your work environment.
You and your practice mentor complete the reflection as evidence of learning outcomes.
The workbook is interactive, in that it contains many links to reliable and up-to-date resources.
This strategy empowers you to develop confidence in finding evidence and engage with future independent learning.
There are several links to evidence involve users, enabling you to engage with authentic learning and facilitate you to reflect on practice.
To help this process, the workbook is available through the virtual learning environment e-learning site: eat.tees.ac.uk site so you have convenient access to the interactive resource links.
The module leader is available to support both you and your mentor, offering tutorial support where appropriate.
You are guided in the workbook with academic writing, referencing, confidentiality and consent.
You are assessed through the workbook – this includes a 1,000-word reflection on your learning to be submitted in week 15 of the module.
Applicants should be working in a supportive role with patients who have cancer and other long-term conditions Applicants also need to identify a practice mentor who agrees to support them through the module.
This course is for professional and personal development for practice and for future career progression in health and social care

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/certificate_an_introduction_to_working_with_people_with_mental_health_and_learning_disabilities.cfm:
Students will increase their knowledge and understanding of both areas of mental health and learning disabilities, the different types of mental health and learning disability, how a diagnosis is made and the importance of a person centred approach to working with in this area.
The module aims to introduce the student to the working with people with mental health and learning disabilities.
Students will take part in seminars focusing on the following topics: - Current healthcare policy - What is a learning disability?
- Causes of a Learning Disability - Different Types of Learning Disabilities - What is meant by mental health?
- What causes mental health issues?
- Therapeutic communication - Emotional and psychological wellbeing - Impact on daily life - Working with service users - Service user experience - Key organisations and the support they offer - Families and carers - Development of a poster
You are assessed through individual poster presentations highlighting an aspect of mental health or learning disability in order to educate the general public.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/nursing_&_health/ucpd_an_overview_of_long-term_conditions_and_clinical_management.cfm:
Study the common long-term conditions that affect the respiratory, neurological cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and gastrointestinal systems, and other conditions such as frailty.
You also focus on advanced care planning and how to start difficult conversations, as well as discussing the clinical management of patients with a cancer diagnosis.
Explore additional information in relation to frailty and potential links with long covid.
Study the common long-term conditions that affect the respiratory, neurological cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and gastrointestinal systems.
You also look at the clinical presentation of frailty and long covid and discuss how to implement advanced care planning and start difficult conversations, as well as discuss the clinical management of patients with a cancer diagnosis.
You learn through face-to-face seminars over 10 weeks, and independent study to consolidate your learning.
Seminars are delivered by lecturers and visiting clinical experts, with discussions encouraged for peer-to-peer learning.
You are assessed on a 3,000-word case study, where you should: discuss a systematic clinical examination of a patient, identifying findings and underlying pathology appraise and evaluate the significance of patient history, including physical examination findings and current evidence demonstrate critical thinking, diagnostic reasoning and complex clinical decision-making skills incorporate evidence-based decisions in complex situations and accept accountability for the outcome and impact, appraising the effect of biopsychosocial factors on the person and their family demonstrate safe practice throughout the assessment.
Tutorial support is available through the module lead and through peer discussion in taught sessions.
You should be a registered healthcare practitioner with a recognised governing body.
Practitioners with advanced knowledge of LTC in all areas of healthcare are required in many fields.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/parttime_courses/computing_&_cyber_security/non-accredited_cpd_analysing_data_using_the_advanced_features_of_power_bi_including_data_analytics_expressions.cfm:
Gain proficiency in creating calculated columns, measures, and visualisations that enhance data-driven business insights.
Delivered face-to-face at our main campus, this course offers practical training on the DAX language for Power BI, including creating DAX calculations, utilising advanced functions, and optimising data handling.
The session combines theoretical concepts with hands-on exercises, fostering a comprehensive understanding of DAX for enhanced data analytics.
The course content includes: > An introduction to DAX language and its importance in Power BI > Basics of DAX syntax and creating calculated columns > Understanding measures and exploring aggregated functions > Developing time intelligence and advanced DAX functions for complex calculations > Integrating DAX calculations into Power BI reports and dashboards > Optimisation techniques for large datasets > Hands-on exercises and real-world case studies to reinforce learning.
Participants should have basic skills in Microsoft Power BI and a foundational understanding of data analytics.
No degree is required.
Ideal for professionals seeking to enhance their data analytics skills, this course enables participants to create impactful Power BI reports, perform advanced data calculations, and contribute to data-driven decision-making.
These skills open doors to career opportunities across data-centric roles in business intelligence, data analysis, and management.
Fee for applicants: £300
a person (no VAT)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/whats_on/inconversation/index.cfm:
Teesside University's In conversation events presents a series of speakers from the worlds of sport, culture, and business.
More about our series Upcoming speakers Previous speakers
Our 'In Conversation' series features renowned speakers from the world of sport, business and culture who share an exclusive insight into their remarkable careers.
It provides an opportunity for you to hear directly about what inspired them and how they achieved such incredible success in their chosen field.
Our audience will have the opportunity to engage directly with our special guest speakers and ask questions during what will surely be a memorable evening out.
Events will be held at both Teesside University and at an exclusive location in London.
Tickets will be on a first come, first served basis.
Speakers for 2023/24 include Marek Reichman,  Aston Martin's Chief Creative Officer, acclaimed film director, writer and producer Franc Roddam, and former Ferrari F1 Race Engineer and now CEO & Founder of Smedley Group, Rob Smedley.
Each event is open to staff, students and members of the public.
In this episode of Teesside University’s In Conversation show, host Dr Mansoor Soomro chats with Teesside Honorary graduate and acclaimed film director, businessman, screenwriter, television producer and publisher, Franc Roddam.
Franc is behind some of the most iconic pieces of British popular culture with his first feature film, Quadrophenia, which he directed and co-wrote in 1979, named by the New York Times as one of the 1000 best films ever made.
In this episode of Teesside University’s In Conversation show, host Dr Mansoor Soomro chats with Teesside Honorary graduate and motorsport engineering supremo, Rob Smedley.
Hear fascinating insights about F1 and carting, advanced technology entrepreneurship and striving for diversity in a typically male dominated world.
Born in North Yorkshire Adele’s first novel - Playing Away - was published in 2000 and since then she has published 22 bestselling novels in 22 years, including the number one bestsellers Lies Lies Lies and Just My Luck.
Over 4 million copies of Adele’s UK editions have been sold and she’s translated into 31 different languages.
In 2009 Adele was awarded an honorary doctorate of Letters from Teesside University and was awarded an MBE in the New Year Honours List 2022 for Services to Literature.
Dom Carter is Publisher of The Sun, the biggest popular news brand in the UK and the fastest growing digital news brand in the US.
He was also named Champion of the Year at the UK Social Mobility Awards last year, recognising his work encouraging action that will promote and increase social mobility.
The Sun is the #1 newsbrand in the UK, reaching more than 30 million readers each month across all its digital and print platforms.
The Sun is famous for its campaigning journalism, celebrating heroes across society and giving voice to the voiceless.
Working with editor-in-chief Victoria Newton, Dominic is focused on developing The Sun’s audience, products and revenues to their full potential as the brand embraces new social and video opportunities.
Dom doesn’t like to admit it but he has worked in the media for over 30 years in a variety of commercial and leadership roles and has been at the forefront of media transformation, as new technologies have impacted on where, when and how we all consume our news, information and entertainment.
Rory started his rugby career at Middlesbrough RUFC, played first class rugby at Leicester Tigers for 14 years and was awarded an MBE in 1992 for services to rugby.
In 2022 Rory was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science from Teesside University.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/whats_on/spotlight/index.cfm:
A series of events to ignite your curiosity, brought to you by Teesside University.
More about our series Upcoming events
What links television crime dramas, the murky world of the illegal wildlife trade, forensic investigations into unexplained deaths, and the darker side of the tourism trade?
These are the fascinating subjects which we're putting in the spotlight in our new series of talks to inspire, intrigue and entertain audiences in their own communities.
We're bringing our Spotlight talks to you, to provide an opportunity to gain a bit of thought-provoking insight from our experts, right on your own doorstep.
Spotlight takes our special guests out of the traditional lecture theatre, to venues close to home where you can relax, be entertained and find out more about a range of interesting topics.
Our Spotlight locations have been carefully chosen, taking place at venues across Teesside, including Stockton, Redcar, Middlesbrough and Saltburn.
Launching our Spotlight series are our guest speakers, Dr Rhys Williams, Dr Desire Dalton, Dr Ben Lamb and Beverley Boden, who will each share insight and expertise in their own fields of research and interest.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/professoriallectures/index.cfm:
Our series of professorial public lectures provide an opportunity to share the expertise of our professors and celebrate their outstanding research, innovation, teaching and professional practices with colleagues, friends and family.
It also allows us to mark their conferment of the title of Professorship.
Each lecture is free and open to staff, students and members of the public.
Professor Diana Feliciano
Professor Jacqueline Wheatcroft
Professor Linda Popplewell
Professor Xinzhong Li
Professor Nadia Wager
Professor Sarah Aiston
Professor The Anh Han
Professor Farzad Rahimian
Professor Samantha Harrison
Professor Sarah Perks
Professor Mikhail Karikis
Professor Marty Chamberlain
Professor Simon McKeown
Professor Matthew Cotton
Professor John S.
Young
Professor Amelia Lake
Professor Vikki Rand
Land use, and its change and management, are the main drivers of global environmental change, especially greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that contribute to climate change.
At the same time, climate change-related events are already impacting negatively on land uses such as agriculture and forestry, limiting their capacity to provide goods and services to society, and vulnerable communities whose livelihoods depend on these uses.
With the UK committed to achieving net zero emissions by 2050, great transformation has to take place in all sectors of the economy, particularly the land use sector which is expected to play a major role in achieving the net zero target.
This includes the reduction of direct GHG emissions mainly from agriculture and degraded peatlands, carbon sequestration to counteract emissions from other sectors that are hard to reduce, and the decarbonisation of other sectors of the economy - for example, wood products used in construction.
Farmers and forest owners are key stakeholders as they manage their land with the objective of producing private goods such as food and wood but depending on their management, they can also deliver carbon sequestration and storage.
In this seminar I will talk about the barriers and opportunities for the land use sector to contribute to net zero, alternative policy pathways, and the need to ensure that the required transformation is equitable for people in the UK and around the world.
Biography
More about Professor Diana Feliciano
Jacqueline joined Teesside University in 2022 and has research interests which broadly surround the enhancement of information, intelligence and evidence in forensic contexts.
Her particular focus is on the effects of process, procedure and questioning techniques on the information people give.
Jacqueline is a national and internationally recognised Chartered Psychologist and Registered Forensic Psychologist who has significant conference, journal and text publications.
She has also been invited to venues across the world to deliver keynote speeches about her research, a number of which have relevance to her talk.
Jacqueline has received funding for projects from a variety of sources, including UKRI, Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office, and the Ministry of Defence, amongst others.
She has pioneered the development of a witness interview protocol which has been used in investigations, post incident management, and by United Nations experts.
Her work has made an applied contribution to guiding the ways in which children and vulnerable witnesses are examined in the court process.
Jacqueline works across disciplines and her contributions have broken new ground in respect of cross-examination techniques.
In this respect, Jacqueline will introduce a potted history of the context in which persons, including those who are vulnerable, negotiate the courts.
The talk will emphasise progress in the examination of witnesses, particularly in respect of cross-examination, and draw upon how interdisciplinary research, including Jacqueline’s, has made a valuable contribution to change in legal procedure.
Jacqueline will draw on some of her own work to discuss the challenges courts face in obtaining best information as evidence and how the interface between research evidence and practice is important in helping us to think about future directions in the area.
Her vision is that all witnesses and interviewees can be supported to give of their best evidence, in investigations, interviews and judicial settings worldwide.
More about Professor Jacqueline Wheatcroft
Rare diseases are defined as those which affect less than one in 2,000 people.
Since there are more than 7,000 different rare diseases, statistically this means one in seventeen people will develop a rare disease.
Virtually all rare diseases are caused by gene mutations that are either inherited or arise spontaneously, are generally progressive in nature and become life-limiting and life-threatening.
Treatments, if available, focus on targeting the symptoms of the disease rather than the cause and are often associated with toxic side effects with prolonged repeat dosing.
The development of specific therapies directed to addressing the disease mutation itself would potentially improve clinical outcomes.
My research has focused on the application of three technologies, namely gene replacement, genome editing and RNA interference, to the development of gene therapies for various rare diseases.
In particular, we have exploited the process of antisense oligonucleotide (AO)-induced exon skipping for the muscle wasting condition Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), a disease that results in nerve tumours.
These two diseases are caused by a wide range of mutations that result in loss of dystrophin, a muscle stabiliser, in DMD, and the tumour suppressor neurofibromin in NF1.
Certain mutation subsets in both diseases cause disruption of the RNA reading frame so that, rather than being translated into protein, the mutated RNA undergoes degradation and disease ensues.
AOs can be designed to mask exons, the coding part of a gene, so that they are spliced out during the maturation of the RNA restoring the reading frame so that shortened but functional protein is expressed.
The preclinical work up of the AOs involves using in silico design tools to interrogate the sequences to be targeted, with experimental comparative analyses of exon skipping efficacy to restore protein expression and function in patient cells followed by confirmation of activity in other relevant models.
The development of AOs for NF1 are now at the model testing stage, while some of the AOs for DMD we have developed are now being clinically trialled.
One of these AOs, with applicability to 15% of DMD patients, is now a conditionally FDA approved medicine.
After three years of treatment, this AO gives a highly significant increase in dystrophin protein expression which protects muscle against turnover.
Treated patients, when compared to untreated age-matched patients, have improved walking ability, have a decreased loss in ambulation and a lower decline in respiratory function.
This highlights the power of AOs to make sense of unreadable RNA and provide hope to patients with particular rare disease mutations.
More about Professor Linda Popplewell
Genomics is playing an increasingly important role in biomedical research, especially in personalized medicine, where advances in biotechnology have made the generation of biological data easier and cheaper.
Massive biological data pose great challenges to bioinformatics and computational biologists in data analysis and interpretation
In this talk, we will discuss some of the challenges and state-of-the-art techniques including machine learning, applied to the study of human brain disorders
More about Professor Xinzhong Li
Following an extensive mapping exercise, exploring how all the current activities that are embarked upon to prevent child sexual abuse (CSA) fit with a public health approach to prevention, a new model of CSA prevention is proposed, and radical recommendations are made for a national strategic approach to CSA prevention.
Professorial lecture by Professor Nadia Wager Following an extensive mapping exercise, exploring how all the current activities that are embarked upon to prevent child sexual abuse (CSA) fit with a public health approach to prevention, a new model of CSA prevention is proposed, and radical recommendations are made for a national strategic approach to CSA prevention.
The mapping exercise entailed identifying all CSA prevention initiatives, policies and practices in England and Wales.
Then classifying each of these in terms of the level of prevention and which of the socioecological spheres they target, their empirical and/or theoretical basis and the evidence of their efficacy to prevent CSA.
This exercise identified that the most resource intensive, nationally developed and managed, and government-funded interventions focus on convicted CSA offenders at the tertiary level of prevention.
That is, they attempt to prevent recidivism in a very small minority of CSA offenders who are estimated to perpetrate just 5% of all CSA crimes annually.
Currently there is no primary universal intervention to prevent the onset of CSA offending, which is partly attributed to the paucity of empirical research on undetected offenders and children who have engaged in harmful sexual behaviour.
The schools-based, child-focused programmes, which until recently had not been policy mandated, offer the only primary universal solution to CSA.
Although, this approach can also be criticised on a number of grounds, including; inadvertently portraying children as agents who hold power to prevent perpetrators from offending, creating precarious contexts for disclosures of CSA and the lack of evidence of their effectiveness.
Indeed, my review of systematic reviews of evaluations conducted largely in the USA suggests that the efficacy of child-focused, schools-based interventions is largely confined to changes in children’s CSA-related knowledge and their anticipated use of self-protective behaviours in the short-term.
Consequently, a new model of CSA prevention is proped, referred to as the CSA Prevention Universe, that identifies who and what to target in preventative interventions, and offer suggestions for a robust CSA prevention strategy, highlights new avenues for research and ways of collaborating to conduct rigorous evaluations of existing interventions.
More about Professor Nadia Wager
Vice Chancellors, Presidents or Rectors occupy elite public positions in universities.
A cursory glance at the roll call of names across the top 100 universities reveals the dominance of men: only 25% of women hold this position (Times Higher Education World University Rankings, 2023).
This inaugural lecture aims to reflect upon who is included, and who is therefore excluded, from senior leadership roles in the 21st-century academy.
Drawing upon Puwar's (2004) analysis of how certain bodies are naturally entitled to certain spaces, whilst others are not, Professor Aiston will consider the profiles of our leaders, including those who lead the world's most elite institutions globally.
More about Professor Sarah Aiston
The mechanisms of emergence and evolution of collective behaviours in evolving systems of multiple interacting agents, be they robots, humans, or even human teams, have been undergoing mathematical study via evolutionary and behavioural modelling methods.
Their systematic study also resorts to agent-based modelling and simulation techniques, thus enabling the study of aforesaid mechanisms under a variety of conditions, parameters, and alternative virtual games.
Numerous important and challenging questions faced by several disciplines and societies have been addressed, such as: what are the mechanisms underlying the evolution of cooperative behaviour at various levels of organisation (from genes to human society)?
How to mitigate existential risks such as those posed by climate change or advanced Artificial Intelligence technologies?
What are the roles of cognition and emotions in behavioural evolution?
In this lecture, I will discuss these collective behaviour research issues, including results and prospects, which are accruing in importance for the modelling of minds with machines and the engineering of prosocial behaviours in both real-world and artificial life systems.
The lecture will cover a range of issues from the introduction of cognitive and emotional mechanisms into agents' implementation in an evolving population, to the design of cost-efficient incentives for promoting prosocial behaviours in complex networks, and to the regulation and governance of AI safety development ecology
More about Professor The Anh Han
This lecture provides results and case studies in innovation from actual work undertaken in collaboration with industry partners in Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC).
Scientific advances and innovative technologies in the sector are key to shaping the changes emerging as a result of Industry 4.0.
Mainstream Building Information Management (BIM) is seen as a vehicle for addressing issues such as industry fragmentation, value-driven solutions, decision-making, client engagement, and design/process flow; however, advanced simulation, computer vision, Internet of Things (IoT), blockchain, machine learning, deep learning, and linked data all provide immense opportunities for dealing with these challenges and can provide evidenced-based innovative solutions not seen before.
These technologies are perceived as the “true” enablers of future practice, but only recently has the AEC sector recognised terms such as “golden key” and “golden thread” as part of BIM processes and workflows.
This lecture builds on the success of a number of initiatives and projects by the authors, which include seminal findings from the literature, research and development, and practice-based solutions produced for industry.
It presents these findings through real projects and case studies developed by the authors and reports on how these technologies made a real-world impact.
The contents are developed around these overarching themes: • BIM and AEC Design and Optimisation: Application of Artificial Intelligence in Design • BIM and XR as Advanced Visualisation and Simulation Tools • Design Informatics and Advancements in BIM Authoring • Green Building Assessment: Emerging Design Support Tools • Computer Vision and Image Processing for Expediting Project Management and Operations • Blockchain, Big Data, and IoT for Facilitated Project Management • BIM Strategies and Leveraged Solutions This lecture is a timely and relevant synthesis of a number of cogent subjects underpinning the paradigm shift needed for the AEC industry and is essential reading for all involved in the sector.
More about Professor Farzad Rahimian
If we lived to be 200 years old we would all develop lung disease.
In people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) the natural process of aging is accelerated meaning lung function declines at a faster rate and symptoms of breathlessness become prominent.
Most of us can recall a time when we have felt out of breath, perhaps during a bad cold or after strenuous exercise.
People with COPD feel acutely breathless during everyday activities such as climbing the stairs and dressing.
Another consequence of getting older is that we become more prone to falls.
A third of healthy adults aged 65 years and older will fall at least once a year and this increases four-fold in people who have COPD because they have worse balance.
In this lecture I will explain why balance is worse in people with COPD, considering not only the physical reasons (e.g.
muscle weakness) but also the social and environmental factors that are particularly relevant when living in an area of the UK with high levels of social deprivation.
I will present evidence that balance-specific training, delivered alongside an existing health service, is beneficial at improving balance in people with COPD and reducing falls risk.
Finally, I will consider how balance training in the future might be aligned with functional activities that are socially and culturally relevant, such as dance and walking football.
Aging is inevitable, it just happens quicker in people with COPD, and we can all benefit from balance training.
You might recall a news article published in 2022 quoting a study that found people who could not stand on one leg for 10 seconds were twice as likely to die in the next 10 years.
By training balance, we are training our brain and other systems that means we stand a better chance at living longer, maybe not until we are 200 years old, but a longer and healthier life.
In this lecture Professor Samantha Harrison explains why balance is worse in people with COPD, considering not only the physical reasons (e.g.
Presenting evidence that balance-specific training, delivered alongside an existing health service, is beneficial at improving balance in people with COPD and reducing falls risk.
It considers how balance training in the future might be aligned with functional activities that are socially and culturally relevant, such as dance and walking football.
More about Professor Samantha Harrison
Our ever-complex world is following the pursuit of solutions at an ever-alarming rate, an apocalyptic countdown fuelled by media, technology and politics.
Curating is a burgeoning field of practice and theory that has been significantly expanding from a care of objects to a care for people, and beyond this, for all life on the planet.
Professor Sarah Perks discusses how curating is offering creativity, exploration and experimentation: different ways to approach our interdisciplinary futures.
Our ever-complex world is following the pursuit of solutions at an ever alarming rate, an apocalyptic countdown fuelled by media, technology and politics.
Professor Sarah Perks discussed how curating is offering creativity, exploration and experimentation: different ways to approach our interdisciplinary futures.
More about Professor Sarah Perks
In his lecture Prof Mikhail Karikis utilises field recordings, moving image and academic writing to reflect on climate change, protest, intergenerational justice and ‘unspeakable hope’, and proposes listening and the practice of attunement as forms of care, responsibility and activism.
In his lecture Prof Mikhail Karikis utilised field recordings, moving image and academic writing to reflect on climate change, protest, intergenerational justice and ‘unspeakable hope’, and proposes listening and the practice of attunement as forms of care, responsibility and activism.
More about Professor Mikhail Karikis
Professor Chamberlain is an internationally regarded social scientist whose research has focussed on professional regulatory tribunal hearings, particularly when these intersect with the formal justice system when members of elite occupations like medicine commit a criminal act.
In his professorial lecture, he discusses his work over the last twenty-five years exploring the role played by public criminology and medical sociology in critically interrogating the ‘social etiquette’ which surrounds the concept of professionalism when mistakes, errors of judgement and deliberate acts of malpractice occur.
More about Professor Marty Chamberlain
Professor Simon McKeown's research considers how disability interacts with mainstream culture.
It seeks to expose and invert negative tropes on impairment, to culturally position disabled people, including learning disabled adults centre stage through often large-scale collaboratively developed public art events.
Further, the research considers historical disability narratives centred around cultural and political developments which led to the design of often dangerous mobility vehicles for impaired users, as provided over seventy years by the UK Government, latterly through the NHS until 1975.
There is another element to my research, which covers technology and our digital futures.
This research considers how we may be able to interact in the future with technology, such as touchable holograms and big data, to digital extend lives and our ongoing connections with deceased family members.
There is another element to Professor McKeown’s research, which covers technology and digital futures.
More about Professor Simon McKeown
Teesside has become a hub for innovation in low carbon technology and industrial development, including offshore wind energy, hydrogen, and carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) projects.
These promise economic growth to the region whilst progressing the global 'net zero' greenhouse gas emissions agenda to aid the fight against climate change.
The revitalisation of Tees Valley industry through low carbon innovation is an example of a transition pathway, in which high-carbon intensity sectors (such as steel manufacture) are replaced with low-carbon intensity sectors.
As a social scientist, I am interested in the political and social dynamics of this change.
I discuss the concept of a just transition: how principles of fairness, equality and justice can be placed at the heart of this rapid transition planning.
In this lecture I blend research in philosophy, innovation studies and public policy to assess how the benefits and risks of a net zero transition can aid socio-economic and cultural growth within the Tees Valley region and beyond.
Matthew Cotton joined Teesside University as Professor of Public Policy in the School of Social Sciences, Humanities and Law in July 2020.
He joined Teesside from the Department of Environment and Geography at York University and held previous lecturing positions in Urban Studies and Planning at Sheffield, Sustainability Studies at Leeds, and postdoctoral fellowships at Exeter and Manchester.
He is a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and visiting fellow in the Centre of the American West at the University of Colorado Boulder.
Matthew’s research, teaching and public outreach work lies in the study of social and environmental justice - how environmental change affects community wellbeing now and into the future, and how citizens can become actively involved in political decisions about technology, biodiversity, and climate change.
He has published five books and more than fifty research papers on a diverse range of environmental issues including the development of electricity systems, burying nuclear waste, shale gas fracking and reducing the plastic in the oceans.
Today he will discuss how investment in the Northeast of England to meet Government targets on Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions can stimulate economic growth and provide a fair and just sustainable transition for the people of the Northeast of England.
More about Professor Matthew Cotton
As we age, we expect our hair to turn grey, and for us to lose some or all of our bladder function.
It’s a sobering thought that a loss of bladder function might ultimately limit what we do.
In this lecture, John will explain how a loss of bladder function impacts individuals, our healthcare system and wider society - and, crucially, what we can do about it.
Many people do not seek timely help at a point when symptoms can be treated, as symptoms are initially mild and there remains the incorrect belief that symptoms are simply part of growing old.
John will discuss education projects for patients and their carers that provide accessible information about conditions, treatments, and encourage conversations to break the taboo.
He’ll explain how modern medicine isn’t geared up to treat the older adult, living with many different diseases and conditions - and work to address this through national programmes for NHS employees and care home staff.
Finally, he’ll explain that we know very little about how the bladder changes as we age and how, bizarrely, diseases that cause urinary symptoms are difficult to diagnose.
In fact, current methods are inaccurate, invasive and expensive.
As poor diagnosis means treatment that is either inappropriate or comes too late, many people find themselves stuck with urinary symptoms for decades.
John will talk about new methods that are able to diagnose bladder disease earlier, more accurately and from a patient’s urine.
With early diagnosis and appropriate treatment, maybe all we’ll have to worry about are the grey hairs.
In this lecture, John explains how a loss of bladder function impacts individuals, our healthcare system and wider society - and, crucially, what we can do about it.
John discusses education projects for patients and their carers that provide accessible information about conditions, treatments, and encourage conversations to break the taboo.
He explains how modern medicine isn’t geared up to treat the older adult, living with many different diseases and conditions - and work to address this through national programmes for NHS employees and care home staff.
Finally, he explains that we know very little about how the bladder changes as we age and how, bizarrely, diseases that cause urinary symptoms are difficult to diagnose.
John talks about new methods that are able to diagnose bladder disease earlier, more accurately and from a patient’s urine.
More about Professor John S.
The UK food environment is almost unrecognisable compared with thirty years ago.
Alongside this change has been an exponential increase in the prevalence of overweight and obesity.
This has stimulated research across the world to explain the relationship between aspects of food retailing, diet and health.
Fifteen years ago, Professor Lake began working on a prestigious NIHR Post-doctoral Fellowship that explored the impact of the food environment on our eating behaviours and she continues working in that field today.
The relationship between food choice, dietary habits and the environment is complex.
Not least because there are so many factors at play including policy (food policy, planning policy), our human behaviours (likes and dislikes) and the complexities around inequalities and access to food.
Professor Lake continues to challenge and push disciplinary boundaries by working with colleagues from Planning, Public Health, Food Science, Sociology, Business Logistics and Supply Chain experts to explore what is used to help shape the environment into a healthier environment.
Her internationally recognised work has influenced policies.
In this lecture, Prof Lake explores the complexities of the food environment, as well as addressing the challenges and opportunities to make healthier diets accessible to all.
More about Professor Amelia Lake
The Human Genome Project was an international scientific research project involving 20 groups from across the globe with a combined goal of determining the base pairs that make up human DNA.
Importantly the sequence data was made available without restriction and access to this data has revolutionised our approaches to research – and has underpinned Prof Rand’s research career.
The sequence of the human genome is a powerful tool which has enabled us to understand human evolution and unravel complex diseases.
In this lecture, Prof Rand discusses how the Human Genome Project and the technical advances that developed from this ambitious project changed the research landscape.
She also shows how her own research has utilised this knowledge to understand different cancers and present how we can exploit weaknesses in cancer DNA to improve treatment and outcome for patients.
Professor Rand will describes some of the challenges we face through healthcare disparity in the UK and globally and how she is tackling this at Teesside University.
Professor Vikki Rand is Professor of Biosciences.
Prof Rand obtained her PhD in Genomic and Bioinformatics from the University of Cambridge.
Her PhD project was based at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and her research contributed to The Human Genome Project.
After her PhD, Vikki conducted two post-doctoral research positions at Johns Hopkins University, USA and the University of Nottingham working in collaboration with St Jude’s Children’s Hospital, USA.
Prior to moving to Teesside University she held a prestigious Senior Bennett Fellowship from Blood Cancer UK at Newcastle University where she led a group focussing on improving our knowledge of paediatric lymphoma in the UK and Malawi.
Prof Rand’s current research interests include early diagnostics of cancer and levelling up healthcare for children and adults across our region and beyond.
Her research uses cutting edge approaches to unravel the biology of aggressive cancers to identify prognostic biomarkers and new therapeutic targets.
Vikki has published research in high impact journals including Nature, Nature Genetics, PNAS, Blood, Molecular Cell and Leukemia.
More about Professor Vikki Rand

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/whats_on/fairs.cfm:
Below are the events we are attending so come and find out more about what we offer.
We look forward to meeting you.
We are not attending any events in this area at the moment.
Download our UCAS fair checklist and grill us with your many questions.
We're looking forward to seeing you!
UCAS fair checklist (pdf - 65kb)
More details are available on the UCAS website

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/advanced-manufacturing.cfm:
We are a leader in advanced manufacturing, offering a powerful blend of industry expertise and state-of-the-art resources.
Through strategic partnerships and specialised facilities like the Industrial Digitalisation Technology Centre (IDTC) and the Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre (NZIIC), we provide businesses with the tools to thrive in a rapidly evolving landscape.
Our extensive network with industry leaders and professional bodies ensures our approach is innovative and aligned with the needs of the global market.
We collaborate with renowned bodies such as IChemE, British Computer Society, Institution of Engineering and Technology and IMechE, ensuring our research and solutions remain at the forefront of industry needs, directly benefiting businesses seeking practical, real-world innovation.
Our IDTC and NZIIC provide businesses with the resources they need to advance digitalisation and energy engineering, enabling companies to tackle the challenges of modern manufacturing, and drive progress in sustainability and efficiency.
With a strong track record in securing Innovate UK and Horizon Europe funding, our academic team brings industry-specific expertise that accelerates research and development to meet global challenges.
From workforce training to financial support for digital transformation, we ensure businesses have the tools to embrace AI, robotics, 3D printing and energy systems, reducing costs and boosting efficiency.
Online learning
Professional apprenticeship
This degree apprenticeship is for learners who are in employment and you, as their employer is willing to support their professional development as an electrical and electronic technical support engineer.
This degree apprenticeship is suitable for learners who are in employment and as the employer, you should be willing to support their professional development as a manufacturing engineer.
This degree apprenticeship combines practical training with academic study, supporting aspiring chemical, process or plant engineers to develop key skills while earning a recognised university qualification.
With a focus on the design, manufacture and processing of chemical, biological and science-based products, it prepares apprentices for a strong and rewarding career in the industry.
Short course
Hydrogen is a key component of the nation’s energy transition.
By studying this course, you align your skills with the UK government's commitment to hydrogen infrastructure and investment.
Our research spans areas such as digitalisation, decarbonisation and new material development.
With expertise in AI, robotics and advanced 3D printing, we provide businesses with the innovations needed to stay competitive in a rapidly changing market.
Enhance your company's research capabilities through KTPs, gaining access to top researchers and tailored solutions to complex manufacturing challenges.
Find out more about KTPs
Saltburn-based Peel Jones Copper Products Ltd has provided high conductivity copper castings to the global iron and steel industry for 50 years.
Teesside University International Business School worked in collaboration with Saudi Arabian chemical company SABIC – one of the world’s leading petrochemical manufacturers – developing a new series of business masterclasses for the firms employees.
More about Core analysis lab
Get in touch

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/biosciences.cfm:
With our cutting-edge facilities and industry-centred approach, we empower businesses to push the boundaries of bioscience innovation.
Through the National Horizons Centre (NHC), we’re committed to advancing research, supporting product development, and nurturing talent across the biosciences sector.
Gain access to advanced lab equipment and state-of-the-art resources at the NHC, without the need for large capital expenditure.
Purpose-built for research with a commercial focus, our facilities offer a highly adaptable environment, designed to support research and development at every stage.
Located in the Darlington Science Park, the NHC is perfectly positioned to support the UK's biosciences network, with excellent transport and logistics for sample movement and seamless collaboration across the country and beyond.
Our academic team brings extensive experience in translational, industry-applied research.
This means our partners benefit from practical, real-world solutions that drive innovation and growth within the biosciences.
Whether you're a startup or an established corporation, our responsive leasing agreements at the NHC allow your team to embed seamlessly within our bioscience ecosystem, adapting to your specific research and development needs.
This course provides a comprehensive introduction to Antibody-Drug Conjugates (ADCs), exploring their development and role in targeted therapies.
You gain an understanding of ADC production, including upstream and downstream processes, regardless of your scientific background.
You are introduced to bioinformatics concepts around visualising and analysing DNA sequence data, as well as basic molecular data analysis.
This course introduces new staff and recent graduates to the foundational principles of bioprocessing.
Covering essential topics like cell structure, protein functionality and immune responses, you gain a comprehensive understanding of the basics needed to thrive in the biopharma industry.
This course introduces bioreactors, focusing on the essential elements of bioprocessing.
Aimed at new graduates and operatives, it covers everything from bioreactor architecture to scaling principles, equipping you with the knowledge you need to succeed in the biopharma industry.
This course introduces newcomers and graduates to the dynamic world of biotherapeutics.
Covering everything from biopharma modalities to various types of biotherapeutic products, this course provides essential knowledge for anyone entering the biopharmaceutical industry.
This course introduces newcomers and recent graduates to the core principles and practical applications of chromatography in the biopharmaceutical industry.
You develop a solid foundation in chromatography and how it’s used in separating and purifying biopharmaceutical compounds.
This course is designed for early-career process scientists, managers and technologists.
It provides comprehensive coverage of clarification methods in upstream bioprocessing, equipping learners with the skills needed for successful separation and purification.
This course is ideal for those new to biopharmaceutical quality control.
It covers the fundamentals of Critical Quality Attributes (CQAs), essential for ensuring product safety and efficacy in bioprocessing.
This course provides dives into Host Cell Protein (HCP) clearance, essential for ensuring product purity in biopharmaceuticals.
It is tailored for professionals in bioprocessing, process design and quality management.
This 100% online course introduces key principles of upstream bioprocessing, providing flexible learning with no formal assessments.
It is designed for professionals in the early stages of their careers, offering foundational knowledge on the cell line development and bioreactor operations that drive biopharmaceutical production.
This 100% online course introduces Tangential Flow Filtration (TFF) in biopharmaceutical processes, providing essential insights without formal assessments.
Tailored for early-career professionals, it covers the advantages and applications of TFF to enhance product stability and safety in bioprocessing.
This 100% online course provides an in-depth understanding of viral clearance in biopharmaceuticals, tailored for newcomers and recent graduates.
With no formal assessments, it equips you with essential knowledge to navigate this critical area of bioprocessing.
This 100% online learning bundle includes a comprehensive suite of ‘Bioprocess Essentials’ modules at a reduced cost.
It provides an extensive overview of biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes, combining foundational knowledge with advanced concepts relevant to the industry.
This 100% online learning bundle offers a comprehensive suite of modules focused on downstream biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes, providing an extensive technical overview at a reduced cost.
It is ideal for professionals seeking to deepen their understanding of downstream operations.
This 100% online e-learning bundle offers a suite of modules focused on upstream biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes, providing a thorough overview at a reduced cost.
It is designed for professionals looking to deepen their understanding of upstream operations.
You explore how knowledge of the biology of microorganisms, including bacteria and viruses, has informed the identification and control of infectious diseases.
Gain a comprehensive overview of the theoretical and practical aspects involved in the production of GMP biological products.
Develop a thorough understanding of modern bioprocessing by investigating active pharmaceutical manufacture in the context of vaccines, advanced therapies and biotherapeutics.
Learn the essential mathematical principles and statistical theories that equip you as a research student or industrial practitioner with the tools to make an instant impact in your respective field.
Delivered in partnership with our strategic partner Beckman Coulter, you are introduced to flow cytometry for the characterisation of advanced therapeutic products.
This 3-day course explores conventional downstream bioprocessing methods and operations used in modern biomanufacturing facilities.
This three-day course is aimed at manufacturing operatives and those early in their careers, providing an understanding of the theory and techniques used in biomanufacturing.
This course provides an essential overview of Biopharma processes and market trends, tailored for staff in commercial, strategic, and management roles.
This one-day course prioritises participation in hands-on practical sessions to introduce delegates to analytical techniques for host cell protein (HCP) analysis.
This 1-day workshop introduces you to the conventional concepts and theories underpinning upstream process intensification.
Our research spans biodiscovery, digital health, medicine manufacturing, sustainable futures and the bioeconomy.
With cutting-edge projects in fields such as next-generation sequencing, bioinformatics, and biomanufacturing scale-up in partnership with the NHS, biopharma, SMEs and government organisations, we provide the expertise and networks you need to accelerate your innovations and bring new products to market.
Find out more about research and innovation
Enhance your company's research capabilities and innovation potential through our KTPs, accessing support from top researchers and developing bespoke solutions to complex bioscience challenges.
More about Bioinformatics suite
More about Bioprocessing lab
More about Chemical analytical lab
More about Omics lab
More about Seminar room

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/construction.cfm:
With a strong foundation in the construction and engineering sectors, we’re transforming the built environment through partnerships that address today’s most pressing challenges.
From innovative research in sustainable materials to digitalisation and asset management, we’re supporting a more resilient and sustainable future for the industry.
Our partnerships are backed by deep industry connections and an impressive track record in securing major projects with high-impact results.
Through collaborations with professional bodies such as ICE, CIOB, and RICS, we bring credibility and industry alignment to every project.
Through groundbreaking initiatives like RECONSTRUCT and Mevocrete, we're at the cutting edge of research-driven solutions.
Our work focuses on digitalisation, decarbonisation, and enhancing asset lifecycles, all tailored to support your business unique needs.
Collaborate with key players such as Wates, Kier, Balfour Beatty, and Ryder Architects, accessing an extensive network of expertise in civil engineering, construction, and asset management.
These partnerships enable us to tackle challenges in workforce development, safety, sustainability, and digital innovation.
Teesside's specialised facilities include labs dedicated to digital twins, immersive technologies, cloud computing, smart energy systems, BIM technology, and alternative fuel research, providing the ideal environment for innovation and industry collaboration.
Equip your team with the skills to optimise asset performance across their lifecycle, minimising costs and driving business success.
This apprenticeship prepares asset managers to contribute strategically to organisations in sectors such as energy, transport, and manufacturing, ensuring assets are managed sustainably, efficiently, and in line with regulatory requirements.
This programme equips your team with the technical and commercial expertise needed to design and manage complex building systems.
From renewable technologies to energy management, this programme covers the critical systems found in modern buildings and infrastructure projects.
Your apprentice gains skills to lead projects, ensuring they meet client needs while adhering to financial and safety standards.
This degree apprenticeship is for those already in employment and you, as the employer are willing to support their professional development as a civil engineer.
This degree apprenticeship is for those already in employment and you, as the employer are willing to support their professional development as a construction site manager.
Our research and innovation in construction and the built environment are redefining industry standards, from sustainable building materials to advanced digitalisation techniques.
Our team works closely with businesses to tackle industry challenges and pioneer practical solutions that create tangible impact.
Our expertise includes:
Drive growth through expert collaboration.
Our Knowledge Transfer Partnerships connect your business with our academic expertise to tackle industry challenges and foster innovative solutions.
Their employees attend university part-time while applying their learning at work, resulting in a highly skilled workforce and accelerated employee development.
Bellway Homes North East partnered with Teesside University to deliver a Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship programme.
The collaboration addressed significant skills shortages in critical roles such as engineering and quantity surveying, enabling the company to develop its own talent pipeline and meet its long-term workforce needs.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/culture-creative.cfm:
Positioned at the heart of the UK's cultural landscape, we empower businesses to integrate creativity into their core.
With access to world-class facilities such as MIMA (Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art) and the Creative Academy, our partnerships drive design-led innovation, bridging art and business to support sustainable growth in a competitive market.
MIMA, a Tate Plus Gallery, offers a rich environment for creative thought leadership, connecting businesses to an extensive network of international artists, curators, and policymakers.
This link to high-level cultural expertise can redefine how businesses approach creativity.
Our Creative Academy , a unique model within our School of Arts & Creative Industries, is designed to support businesses through design-thinking workshops, consultancy, and our exclusive Innovation Membership.
This membership gives direct access to leaders in emerging fields such as AI and net zero, blending creativity with real-world business solutions.
Through collaborations with organisations such as the North East University Screen Network, Hullabaloo Theatre, and the Tees Valley Combined Authority, we offer access to a wide cultural network, enhancing funding opportunities and knowledge exchange for creative growth.
We provide bid writing and tendering assistance, enabling businesses to secure vital funding from sources such as Innovate UK.
Our support helps organisations achieve their growth potential while connecting with like-minded creative entities.
A curator plays a vital role in the world of museums, galleries, libraries, archives and other institutions and organisations that hold collections or have a primary focus on engaging people with the arts, culture, heritage or environments.
Whether for upskilling existing staff or recruiting new talent, this apprenticeship is accessible across all of England through an intensive, blended learning model.
Master the art of engaging with the media in high-pressure situations.
Whether you’re celebrating a success story or managing a corporate crisis, this course equips you with the confidence and skills to represent your organisation effectively across TV, radio and social media.
Challenge your team to create a short film in just one day, building collaboration, communication, and creative problem-solving skills.
This unique workshop immerses your team in the fast-paced world of filmmaking, culminating in their own red-carpet premiere.
Our research activities support a range of creative and cultural needs, from strategic design-thinking to sustainable business models.
Partnering with us means access to practical, high-impact solutions that strengthen your organisation's creative foundation.
The Evaluation and Impact team at Teesside University worked with the Arts Council on the Heritage Lottery funded Great Place Project.
This partnership fosters strategic growth and enhances staff capabilities.
More about Athena broadcast news studio
More about Audio studio
More about Aurora television studio
More about Digital fabric printing
More about Green screen sound stage
More about Video post-production suites
More about VR motion capture studio

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/digital.cfm:
Positioned at the heart of a thriving digital ecosystem, we are dedicated to supporting digital innovation and growth across industries.
Through our Digital Life building and extensive expertise, we’re accelerating digital transformation for businesses large and small, helping them stay competitive and lead in the digital era.
With a £41.4m investment in Digital Life, our facilities are purpose-built to drive digital transformation.
From industry-standard smart labs to digital art studios and multi-functional collaborative spaces, we provide the resources needed to push the boundaries of digital innovation.
Our academic team includes experts in digital optimisation and AI, ready to tackle complex industry challenges.
We also cultivate a steady pipeline of digital talent, with many of our graduates going on to become leaders in the field, bringing real-world experience and insights to our partnerships.
Whether you need a quick consultation with our academics or long-term, funded research support, we offer flexible, tailored solutions that address your unique digital challenges, supporting growth and transformation at every level.
This cyber security training programme provides you with the essential skills and knowledge needed to thrive in the rapidly growing field of cybersecurity.
Data analytics and data visualisation enable us to investigate large amounts of data to make business forecasts, make informed decisions, and present complex, multi-dimensional datasets in a form that is engaging and easy to understand.
This course is designed for trade professionals, logistics managers and business leaders engaged in international trade, who want to embrace advanced digital documentation practices aligned with the global standards established by the Centre for Digital Trade and Innovation (C4DTI).
In today’s fast-paced global economy, digital trade offers immense opportunities alongside complex challenges for businesses of all sizes.
This one-day course equips participants with essential skills in Data Analytics Expressions (DAX) for business intelligence using Power BI, fostering effective data leveraging for reporting and decision-making.
This course equips policymakers, researchers and business leaders with a clear understanding of global digital trade regulations.
We all hear about the potential of generative AI and prompt engineering to make a difference to our day-to-day work, saving us time and money.
Our research supports a range of digital needs, from data-driven strategies to AI implementation.
We help businesses advance their digital infrastructure, providing the insights and technology needed to transform ideas into actionable, high-impact solutions.
Benefit from deep digital expertise and collaborative problem-solving through our KTPs.
We work closely with partners to develop tailored digital solutions, drive growth, and support your digital journey.
Find out more abput KTPs
SeerBI creates actional solutions by providing machine learning, big data development, and artificial intelligence (AI) services to make the industry more efficient with an award-winning team in logistics, industry and maritime.
More about Digitalisation lab

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/financial.cfm:
We connect businesses in the financial and professional services sector with regional insight and cutting-edge academic expertise.
Our approach combines practical learning with real-world industry involvement, featuring guest lectures and live case studies from business leaders across various sectors, including finance.
Through initiatives like Launchpad and Microbiz, we provide tailored solutions that enable businesses to innovate, grow, and stay competitive in today’s dynamic market.
With a deep understanding of the Tees Valley and strong ties to both local and national businesses, we offer targeted solutions to meet the unique challenges faced by firms across the financial and professional services sectors.
By incorporating guest lectures and live case studies from finance professionals and business leaders, we equip businesses with actionable knowledge that can be immediately applied to enhance operations, drive growth, and improve financial strategies.
Our bespoke management programmes, such as Help to Grow Management , support businesses in closing skills gaps, developing leadership capabilities, and sustaining growth in both financial and operational areas.
Our pipeline of skilled interns and graduates from across various fields enable businesses to address immediate skills gaps while building a strong foundation for future leadership in finance and beyond.
In an evolving and uncertain world, there has never been a more important time for learning and development in the accounting and finance profession.
Help to Grow: Management is a 12-week programme designed to support senior leaders in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to enhance productivity, drive innovation, and accelerate business growth.
Our research focuses on business strategy, digital transformation and strategic growth planning, equipping businesses with the insights and tools needed to stay competitive and achieve long-term success.
Boost your company's capabilities through KTPs, gaining access to our leading researchers and tailored solutions that address complex business challenges in finance, law and professional services.
Our 12-week programme supports senior leaders in small and medium-sized businesses to boost business performance, productivity, resilience and long-term growth.
Find out more Help to grow
Teesside Marketing Clinic is a free student-led consultancy support and advice service, covering areas such as branding, digital marketing, market research, strategic planning and much more.
Find out more Teesside Makerting Clinic
Yellow Box Marketing is a marketing agency in the North East set up by director, Bradley Johnson.
More about Mock courtroom

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/government.cfm:
As an anchor institution, we’re dedicated to fostering growth and transformative change across the region.
With a profound understanding of local challenges, we work closely with government, public sector bodies, and educational institutions to support socio-economic progress and deliver impactful solutions.
Our commitment to the Tees Valley region is unmatched.
With deep roots in the community, we understand the unique needs and challenges faced by local authorities, charities, and public sector organisations, enabling us to deliver tailored, effective solutions.
Our public sector partners often operate within tight budget constraints.
We bring innovative approaches,- like digital optimisation and artificial -intelligence applications,- that allow organisations to work smarter, increase impact, and improve efficiencies, ensuring valuable resources are maximised.
Many of our public sector partners are exploring digital solutions to enhance service delivery and data management.
Our expertise in digital transformation enables partners to leverage technology and data to meet evolving demands while enhancing efficiency and reach.
Our KTPs bring advanced research and management expertise to public sector organisations.
Through Management KTPs, public entities gain access to specialised skills that drive operational improvements and help meet strategic goals.
Charities benefit from subsidised KTPs, with only 25% contribution required, making innovative research and knowledge more accessible.
The academic professional route studied is designed for those appointed as police officers to Cleveland Police.
Apprentices develop their understanding of the policing role, knowledge of legislation and procedures, and the needs of those living and working within the Cleveland Police area.
Our LLB (Hons) Law and Legal Practice apprenticeship is tailored to meet the Solicitor Apprenticeship Standard, offering valuable benefits for both businesses and apprentices.
Our research addresses critical public sector priorities, from data-driven decision-making to improving resource management.
By collaborating with us, your organisation can harness practical, real-world solutions to maximise community impact and operational efficiency.
Through our Management KTPs, we help government and public sector organisations drive efficiency and sustainable change, bringing cutting-edge expertise to tackle today's challenges
Teesside University Law Clinic, an award-winning initiative, partners with law firms to offer free legal advice to the community while providing students with invaluable hands-on experience.
By collaborating with us, your firm can support access to justice, mentor emerging talent, and contribute to shaping the skilled legal professionals of tomorrow.
Find out more Teesside Law Clinic
Enhance your organisation with fresh perspectives and expertise from our undergraduate, master's, and doctoral students, supervised by experienced academic staff.
Find out more Impact Lab
Cat O’Neill and colleagues carried out an evaluation of Sunderland City Councils Time to Care Project.
Mentoring and Executive Coaching programme.
Teesside University Business School and Cumbria Constabulary have worked together for four years.
The programme has enhanced recruitment preparation, improved staff retention, and created a more competent police workforce.
Ambitious plans to secure a medical school in the Tees Valley have taken a step forward.
Students at Teesside University have gained first-hand experience into how major policy decisions are developed and implemented as part of a partnership with the Darlington Economic Campus (DEC).
Leading figures from across the education sector have gathered at Teesside University to discuss the future of 21st century learning and teaching.
At last night’s (Thursday 27 June) Northern Law Awards, Teesside University Law Clinic took home the prestigious Pro Bono / Community Initiative accolade.
Teesside University’s expertise in research and innovation is to play a key role in a £160m investment zone established to unleash the strengths of the creative and digital companies in the Tees Valley.
A new digital inclusion project has launched after a recent successful award by the Tees Valley Mayor and Combined Authority to Teesside University and local partners.
Entrepreneurial students are being challenged to come up with business ideas to encourage sustainability through a partnership with a housing provider.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/health.cfm:
We work in partnership with businesses, service users and practice partners to address industry challenges, anticipate future needs and drive advancements in health education and research.
With access to a wide range of courses, apprenticeships and cutting-edge research techniques, we empower organisations to innovate and adapt within a dynamic healthcare landscape.
We offer a diverse portfolio of courses, apprenticeships and qualifications designed to meet the evolving needs of healthcare professionals and organisations, ensuring a skilled and adaptable workforce.
Our research spans individual and community health, with over 120 experts across four research centres focused on creating interventions that influence both policy and daily life.
We collaborate with organisations like the NHS, local authorities and industry partners to develop and implement new technologies, from digital and assistive innovations to intervention and service evaluations.
Our approach emphasises extensive Patient and Public Involvement (PPI), ensuring that healthcare innovations are developed with direct input from those who will benefit most, fostering meaningful and sustainable solutions.
Our research focuses on public health, social justice, radiography and the integration of digital health technologies, providing organisations with the tools to implement effective, evidence-based solutions.
Enhance your organisation's capacity for innovation through KTPs, collaborating with our expert researchers to develop bespoke solutions that meet complex healthcare challenges.
In 2017, North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust and Teesside University signed an agreement to form a powerful strategic partnership that is designed to enhance innovation in healthcare and education in the Tees Valley.
The programme has fostered continuous improvement, enhanced operational practices, and supported a progressive workplace culture.
More about Health simulation labs
More about Hydrotherapy pool

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/leadership-management.cfm:
We believe people are your greatest asset, and we understand that future-proofing your organisation and your people is as essential as evolving your product or service portfolio.
That’s why we are dedicated to equipping your team with the skills, knowledge, and confidence to drive meaningful change.
We specialise in tailored leadership and management training, offering a range of expertise in sustainability leadership, artificial intelligence, and core management skills to meet the specific needs of your business.
Our curriculum incorporates the latest leadership and management strategies, including managing Gen Z, hybrid work models, four-day workweeks, artificial intelligence (AI), and sustainability, ensuring that businesses remain competitive and forward-thinking.
We work closely with consultancy firms such as Grant Thornton, enabling us to align our offerings with industry best practices and real-world applications.
Our delivery team combine academic expertise with practical experience, featuring leaders who have held executive-level positions and understand the challenges faced by today's business leaders.
Equip your leadership team with the skills needed to navigate today’s complex business landscape.
Our Bespoke CPD for Leaders and Management programme is tailored to your organisation’s specific needs, fostering visionary leaders who can tackle both current challenges and future opportunities.
Our Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA) is designed to empower your business today while building the leaders of tomorrow.
This programme fuses academic excellence with practical application, ensuring your apprentice is equipped to drive immediate impact and sustain future growth.
With a rich legacy of innovation, we help businesses turn bold visions into tangible results.
This apprenticeship focuses on developing the global mindset – a leadership and management concept applicable across global health systems.
Aligned with the World Health Organization’s emphasis on ‘using a global mindset for local issues,’ the course equips apprentices with skills in adaptability, critical thinking, creativity and confidence to work within complex, interconnected and global influenced healthcare environments.
The programme empowers the next generation of leaders to excel in a complex, global environment.
By embedding an MBA into the programme, we offer your business a unique opportunity to develop senior managers who are equipped to lead with confidence, innovation, and strategic insight.
Our research team leads in investigating the latest trends and strategies in leadership and management, including:
Maximise organisational growth with our Management KTPs, designed to integrate research-led insights directly into your business, fostering sustainable leadership practices and driving long-term success.
Bondgate IT has developed from an IT build and service computer shop in Darlington town centre to an IT solutions business in modern offices on the edge of town.
They have long standing clients in the private health care, manufacturing and charities sectors who have supported its evolution and growth.
Wilton-based DuPont Teijin Films (DTF) has been a leading global producer of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polyethylene naphthalate films (PEN) for over 50 years.
Suzanne Hauge
Suzanne Hauge, Principal Lecturer at Teesside University Business School, helps businesses unlock growth through enterprise and knowledge exchange.
She offers strategic insights to drive innovation, improve operations, and strengthen industry-academic collaborations for real business impact.
Nicola Selby
Nicola Selby, Lecturer in Leadership at Teesside University, empowers businesses to strengthen leadership and team performance.
She supports organisations in developing effective leaders, improving team dynamics, and driving positive change that boosts productivity and growth.
Simon Clayton
Simon Clayton, Strategic Marketing and Leadership Coach and University Lecturer, helps businesses grow through tailored marketing strategies and leadership development.
With expertise across diverse sectors, he equips organisations with the tools to enhance brand visibility and achieve long-term success.
Femi Waters-Ajisafe
Dr.
Femi Waters-Ajisafe, Principal Lecturer and Marketing Lead at Teesside University Business School, drives strategic marketing initiatives that connect businesses with talent and growth opportunities.
She helps organisations enhance brand presence, improve engagement, and leverage innovative marketing strategies for business success.
Sina Joneidy
Sina Joneidy, Senior Lecturer in Digital Enterprise, specialises in Responsible AI, Digital Culture, and Change Management.
He partners with businesses to navigate digital transformation, using cutting-edge insights from industry and Innovate UK projects to create responsible, future-ready solutions.
Jonny Munby
Jonny Munby, Principal Lecturer at Teesside University Business School, supports businesses through expertise in management accounting, business strategy, and economics.
He advises on financial planning, performance improvement, and international business practices to help organisations scale and grow globally.
Mansoor Soomro
Mansoor Soomro, Senior Lecturer in Sustainability and International Business, helps businesses integrate sustainable practices and prepare for the future of work.
With extensive corporate experience, he guides organisations in aligning technology and human-centred approaches for long-term success.
Gbemi Ogbolu
Gbemisola Ogbolu, Senior Lecturer in Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Strategy, supports SMEs and startups in boosting performance and sustainable growth.
With over 12 years of industry experience, she helps businesses thrive within entrepreneurial ecosystems and develop innovative strategies.
Adebukola Oyewunmi
Adebukola Oyewunmi, Senior Lecturer in Leadership, Organisational Psychology, and HRM, helps businesses improve leadership practices and workplace culture.
Through her international research and insights, she offers practical solutions that enhance team performance, employee engagement, and organisational success.
More about Executive meeting room
More about Fusion Hive training room
More about Meeting rooms
More about The Gateway

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/partnership/netzero.cfm:
Embracing our rich industrial heritage, we are decarbonising industries and working towards a net zero future, through collaborative industry partnerships for our region, the UK, and beyond.
Located at the epicentre of the UK's clean energy transformation, we are perfectly positioned to lead the way in decarbonisation planning, bringing together world-class talent and critical infrastructure to pioneer net zero innovation.
As part of a global community of innovators, we are driving international collaboration on net zero.
From the Transatlantic Net Zero Centre of Excellence to strategic alliances worldwide, we're helping shape the future of sustainable industry on a global scale.
From bespoke CPD solutions and 12-week modules to apprenticeships and executive masterclasses, our initiatives help businesses tackle sustainability challenges, embrace environmental, social and governance (ESG), and seize emerging opportunities.
Our £13.1m Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre is home to state-of-the-art facilities specialising in hydrogen, smart energy, circular economy, and carbon capture, utilisation and storage.
We offer tailored strategies to help businesses navigate sustainability challenges and seize emerging opportunities, with customised programmes ranging from seven days to 12 months.
These 12-week modules allow businesses to study one of five in-depth sustainability topics.
Each module is designed to equip learners with the knowledge and tools to address real-world sustainability challenges, providing valuable insights that can drive positive change in their organisation.
This apprenticeship empowers the next generation of leaders to embed sustainable practices across business operations.
With a digital-first approach, the programme combines practical experience with expertise in environmental stewardship, social responsibility and economic sustainability.
Apprentices learn how to tackle challenge like climate change and resource efficiency while driving impactful ESG strategies, stakeholder engagement and regulatory compliance.
This half-day masterclass helps leaders integrate sustainability into strategy by understanding regulatory trends, exploring environmental, social, and governance (ESG) value creation, and crafting actionable next steps for embedding sustainability across organisational processes.
This two-day programme equips executives with the ability to navigate regulatory landscapes and drive environmental social governance (ESG)-focussed change.
Guided by experts, participants develop actionable plans, explore human resources' role in fostering change, and learn to measure performance using proven frameworks.
Our net zero research and consultancy focus spans diverse areas including artificial intelligence, carbon capture, hydrogen innovation, circular economy and much more.
Our research in decarbonisation and emerging technologies is used by industry, equipping you with the expertise needed to develop new technology and accelerate the transition from concept to commercially available products.
Accelerate your journey to net zero by accessing cutting-edge research and innovation.
Our KTPs help you develop sustainable technologies, reduce emissions, and lead the transition to a greener future.
Sofia Offshore Wind Farm has a Memorandum of Understanding with Teesside University, which is an agreement to cooperate on building capabilities to equip students for careers in the rapidly growing offshore wind sector.
Stuff4Life is a circular economy company who aims to tackle the key challenges in recycling plastic polymers, and in particular the recycling of polyester workwear.
More about Carbon capture, utilisation and storage lab
More about Circular economy lab
More about Hydrogen lab
More about Smart energy lab
More about Waters BioAnalytical lab

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/short-courses.cfm:
Develop expertise, drive innovation, and stay ahead in a rapidly evolving world.
From half-day masterclasses to eight-week accredited programmes, our professional short courses provide cutting-edge knowledge and practical skills across diverse industries, including advanced manufacturing, sustainability, digitalisation, and leadership.
Our short courses cater to professionals looking to upskill, businesses seeking to develop their workforce, and individuals aspiring to gain new expertise in high-demand areas.
Our programmes are designed with leading industry experts to ensure practical, applicable training that delivers immediate business impact.
We offer bespoke solutions to address your specific business needs, ensuring relevant skills development for your team.
Our dedicated support team is available to guide your business through every step of the training process.
Whether a local government partner looking to measure the economic impact of a funded initiative, a charity looking to improve its marketing strategy, a large corporate partner looking to improve productivity, or a small business looking to digitise its operations, our consultancy services can support you.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/research/ktp.cfm:
Our Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) provide businesses with access to cutting-edge academic research and practical expertise, to bring your innovative ideas to life.
KTPs develop new products and services or improve operations by embedding essential new capabilities exactly where they're needed most.
KTPs embed university expertise within your organisation to drive strategic projects that deliver commercial impact.
From tackling skills gaps to transforming operations, KTPs empower businesses to disrupt the status quo and shape the future.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships A guide to KTPs – driving innovation through bespoke collaborations between universities, businesses and new graduates.
A guide to KTPs – driving innovation through bespoke collaborations between universities, businesses and new graduates.
Boost your manufacturing capabilities by partnering with our academic experts to integrate cutting-edge technologies, optimise production processes, and enhance efficiency.
Our KTPs are a great way to stay competitive in an evolving industry.
Advance research and innovation in biosciences with our KTPs, enabling your business to access the latest academic knowledge and apply breakthrough technologies in biotech, healthcare, and pharmaceuticals.
Revolutionise your construction projects by incorporating sustainable practices, smart building technologies, and innovative materials.
Our KTPs connect you with specialists to drive impactful advancements in the built environment.
Elevate your creative business by collaborating with our academic experts in digital media, design, and the arts.
Our KTPs offer new ways to fuse creativity with technology, expanding your reach and enhancing your impact.
Stay ahead in the digital revolution by collaborating with our experts through KTPs.
Whether you're exploring AI, data analytics, cyber security, or digital transformation, we help you embed cutting-edge digital technologies that streamline operations, enhance customer experience, and boost competitiveness.
Strengthen your business’ technological and analytical capabilities with KTPs that bring fresh thinking and innovative strategies.
Gain access to expertise in data analysis, financial technologies, and digital transformation.
Transform public sector and educational services through KTPs that drive digital transformation, policy innovation, and operational improvements.
Collaborate with our experts to deliver better, more efficient services to your communities.
Improve patient outcomes and operational efficiencies by partnering with our research teams.
KTPs in health and social care allow you to integrate the latest health innovations and deliver better care solutions for today’s challenges.
Empower your leaders to drive transformation within your organisation.
Our KTPs offer access to cutting-edge leadership strategies, innovative management techniques, and expert mentorship, helping your team foster growth, resilience, and long-term success.
Our KTPs help businesses develop sustainable technologies, reduce emissions, and lead the transition to a greener future.
Let's transform your business challenges into opportunities.
Get in touch to explore how our expertise and Innovate UK funding can drive innovation and growth in your organisation.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/research/innovate_uk_business_growth.cfm:
We believe progress happens when businesses dare to think differently.
Through Innovate UK funding, we help businesses unlock untapped potential, develop cutting-edge solutions, and achieve sustainable growth.
Innovate UK Business Growth is a key part of the UK innovation agency's deep investment in pioneering businesses that drive economic growth.
It is a publicly funded service available to all high-potential small to medium-sized innovation-driven companies, including Innovate UK grant winners.
We work closely with leadership teams to create the conditions for each business to succeed and bring the benefits of their innovation to national and international audiences.
Since 2015 we have been empowering clients to grow and scale their businesses through actionable advice, access to vital resources and opportunities to enhance their abilities.
Our innovation and growth specialists are at the centre of our service.
Each client engagement results in a bespoke strategy where common priorities include:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/research/ipc.cfm:
Collaborating closely with businesses, we facilitate the transformation of innovative concepts into tangible assets and help businesses unlock this intellectual property (IP) through licensing and access to our expertise.
Our IP team can support the commercialisation process by helping to find partners or funding to develop technologies further, and by managing the intellectual property arising from research in accordance with the University's Intellectual Property Policy (Staff & Students) .
More about our IP and commercialisation support
If you are a student or researcher and have a project you would like to discuss with the IP team, please email ip@tees.ac.uk
Teesside University has recently updated our Intellectual Property (Staff and Students) Policy following the UK Government's publication of the independent review of university spin-out companies in late 2023.
The University supports the review and has updated our policy to fully adopt the recommendations (specifically section 4.2.4).
Read our full statement on the UK independent review of university spin-out companies
We are committed to continue to develop our IP and commercialisation processes to best support university research through the creation of spin-out companies and licensing opportunities in line with the USIT Guide .
Our IP portfolio includes patents in health, net zero and engineering, and we can facilitate access to academic expertise across a range of disciplines.
Contact us at ip@tees.ac.uk to discuss with a member of our team.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/research/consultancy.cfm:
From lighting the world's first friction match to powering the industries that built the modern world, our region has always been a leader in innovation, today we carry that tradition forward by delivering industry-leading solutions that are designed to inspire originality and spark meaningful change.
We provide research-backed consultancy tailored to your business's specific challenges and goals.
Our experts have real-life industry experience and academic knowledge and are therefore best placed to support your business.
Whatever your needs, we deliver bespoke support designed to meet your unique business needs.
Our solutions are built to deliver fast, tangible outcomes that drive real business growth.
We work hand-in-hand with your team to ensure the solutions we provide are sustainable and scalable.
Collaborating closely with businesses, we facilitate the transformation of innovative concepts into tangible assets and help businesses unlock this intellectual property through licensing and access to our expertise.
Our team can assist with:
We can support you with evaluating innovations, securing rights, and advising on patents or alternative protections
Explore routes such as licensing or spin-out companies to maximise your IP value
Ensure fair distribution of IP-related income

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/research/collaborative-research.cfm:
Teesside University has a track record of working in partnership with businesses and organisations to develop innovative solutions that unlock potential and drive growth.
Our people work on collaborative research projects providing mutual benefit that can be co-funded between your organisation, the university and/or research funding bodies such as Innovate UK, research councils or Horizon Europe.
We have professional teams who can advise you on collaborative funding opportunities and support the development of bids.
The University is also home to the region's Innovate UK Business Growth hub to support innovative businesses to grow, scale and go international.
The team is part of a national network of government-funded innovation and growth specialists available to all high potential small to medium sized innovation-driven companies, including Innovate UK grant winners.
If you're an existing client or interested in any of our existing research projects, people, or themes we're happy to hear from you.
If your organisation has a novel idea that you want to explore but don't have the means or knowledge in-house to achieve it, Teesside University researchers and facilities might be able to help.
Contract research commissioned directly by your organisation and focuses on finding a bespoke solution to benefit your business with any intellectual property created which is available to be owned and exploited by you.
You can explore the expertise of our researchers through our research portal using a keyword search or through exploring the relevant sector.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/wd_talent.cfm:
Home › Business › Access our Talent
Could your business use a talented graduate or student?
We help you find the right people with the right combination of skills, talent and enthusiasm.
With 18,000 students and thousands of alumni, Teesside University represents an incredible pool of talent for employers.
Students and graduates contribute to local, national and international organisations of all shapes and sizes, bringing enthusiasm, creativity, innovation, and problem solving to help your organisation thrive.
We can provide a customised approach to your recruitment to
When employing a student or graduate for a placement opportunity, you'll have all the support and guidance you need from our team of friendly and experienced advisers.
We will help you select the right placement scheme for your business, offer a recruitment and matching service and help you through any paperwork you may need to complete.
Part of Teesside University, Unitemps Teesside is a recruitment agency that works with clients to help you find the best talent Teesside has to offer.
Whether you are recruiting for full-time or part-time roles on a permanent or temporary basis, Unitemps Teesside have a dedicated team that can help you find candidates for a wide range of roles.
Hundreds of candidates have signed up with Unitemps Teesside and are actively searching for their next roles.
We provide a customised approach to help you find a student or graduate to suit your needs.
There are a number of work experience schemes available depending on your requirements.
*eligibility criteria apply.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/talent/placements_internships.cfm:
Teesside University's placement and internship programmes connect your business with talented students eager to apply their skills and knowledge to real-world challenges.
With flexible options ranging from 12-week master's placements to year-in-industry opportunities, you can:
Once we receive your application form, we'll advertise the role to suitable students and share their CVs and cover letters with you.
You'll then have the opportunity to shortlist candidates and arrange interviews.
While we strive to match students with the right opportunities, we cannot guarantee a suitable candidate for every role or project.
Placements are not funded by the University, but they can be voluntary.
If any travel costs are incurred, we expect these to be covered by the company.
Interns or placement students can work on-site at your premises or remotely, depending on the needs of your business and the nature of the role.
A placement, internship, or project should provide students with practical experience relevant to their course of study.
The opportunity should align with their developing skills, helping them gain valuable industry insights and hands-on expertise.
Teesside University sponsors student visas throughout the placement period.
As part of this process, we conduct regular attendance and engagement checks through fortnightly email confirmations.
We assist with recruitment and shortlisting and can offer guidance on structuring a meaningful placement experience that benefits both your business and the student.
There are several work experience schemes available depending on your requirements.
We offer bespoke solutions to help connect your business with talented students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/talent/unitemps.cfm:
Unitemps is Teesside University's full-service recruitment agency, offering businesses a reliable source of high-quality students and graduates for part-time, full-time, or temporary roles.
By partnering with Unitemps, you tap into a pool of bright, motivated individuals ready to bring fresh perspectives and energy to your team.
Working with Unitemps provides a seamless hiring process, allowing you to gain talented staff without the typical hassle.
Whether you need to fill temporary gaps or identify long-term talent, we offer flexible recruitment solutions tailored to your needs.
We recruit across sectors, including:
Our dedicated team works closely with you to understand your business needs, ensuring you find the right candidate for any role, whether temporary, permanent, part-time, or full-time.
Unitemps provided fast, efficient support during a particularly busy period.
Their team delivered exactly what we needed, often at short notice.
Unitemps client, Warwick
We've used Unitemps for both temporary and permanent roles, and the candidates have always exceeded expectations.
The process was refreshingly smooth, without the pushy sales approach.
Unitemps client, Managing Director, Cyber Security company
Complete our employer enquiry form to get started.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/talent/student-led.cfm:
Our student-led initiatives empower businesses and communities by providing forward-thinking solutions across a range of disciplines.
From innovative marketing strategies and practical legal advice to impactful social science projects, our schemes connect talented students with organisations to deliver real-world benefits.
Whether youâ€™re a business, charity, or community group, we invite you to collaborate with us and discover how our students can help you achieve your goals.
Teesside Marketing Clinic offers free consultancy services to organisations across various sectors.
Students from Teesside University International Business School provide cost-effective expertise in branding, digital marketing, market research, and more.
Teesside Law Clinic provides free legal advice and representation in areas such as employment, family law, and civil disputes.
Law students gain practical experience while supporting the community.
The Impact Lab connects organisations with students for impactful projects spanning social sciences.
Projects include service evaluation, data analysis, and stakeholder engagement, supervised by academic staff.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/talent/volunteering.cfm:
Teesside University actively encourages all its students to engage in work experience opportunities that will provide them with insight into careers of interest and which will develop the skills that they will need for their future.
These include: Insight days, micro-internships, work shadowing (1-5 days) and professional/consultancy projects - live projects set by organisations for students to work on individually or in groups.
We also offer a student volunteer brokerage service for third sector and related organisations through our Volun-tees team.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/talent/careers_fair.cfm:
Engage with Teesside University's students and graduates, and connect with motivated individuals who are actively exploring graduate and undergraduate opportunities.
It's an excellent platform for networking with prospective employees and promoting your organisation to our talent pool.
We welcome employers from a range of sectors, who can offer opportunities for 25-26 onwards.
Hosting a stand enables you to:
Submit your expression of interest

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/charter.cfm:
Teesside University provides professional services including apprenticeships, consultancy, knowledge transfer, professional development, help to access funding, graduate placements and recruitment for companies of all sizes, as well as specialist facilities and highspecification meeting and conference venues.
This Charter sets out our commitment to a professional business service for all customers of Teesside University.
Clients of Teesside University can expect:
Your feedback helps us to evaluate and improve our services.
We will always ask for formal feedback, but also welcome your unsolicited comments.
If you have any comments about the quality of our service, please get in touch:
Formal complaints will be managed by Student Casework Office, Legal & Governance Services, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, TS1 3BX, or via email to sco@tees.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/business/talent/procurement_frameworks.cfm:
Teesside University is a trusted delivery partner on a range of UK-wide and regional procurement frameworks and dynamic purchasing systems (DPS).
This makes it simpler for public sector organisations and private enterprises to compliantly procure high-quality education and training services from us.
Frameworks we're part of
These routes enable fast, compliant access to our apprenticeship training and continuous professional development (CPD) to support workforce development services – whether you are commissioning for one learner or rolling out a large-scale workforce strategy.
Looking for a procurement route not listed above?
We’re always expanding our framework coverage and can work with you to identify the best route.
Contact us to discuss your options.
Frameworks and DPS are structured procurement tools used by public sector organisations.
They provide pre-approved supplier lists, simplifying procurement and ensuring compliance with public sector regulations.
As a listed provider, Teesside University has already passed rigorous quality, compliance and value assessments.
We offer multiple flexible procurement routes, including direct award routes.
Our team can advise on the best method for your needs.
Most of our apprenticeship and professional development programmes are available through the listed frameworks.
If you're interested in a specific programme, contact us to confirm availability through your preferred route.
Frameworks save time, reduce legal risk, ensure value for money, and help organisations meet procurement regulations and internal governance standards.
Absolutely.
We align training provision with wider objectives – like sustainability, local employment and community impact – to support the Public Services (Social Value) Act and other ESG-driven strategies.
Our partnership team is here to help.
Whether you’re an NHS Trust, local authority or private business, we’ll connect you with a key account manager who understands your sector and procurement route.
Contact apprenticeships@tees.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/about.cfm:
Where knowledge meets experience
The 2022-2025 professional apprenticeships strategy is central to the University’s 2027 strategy to deliver education, enriched by research, innovation and engagement with industry as we work to transform lives and economies.
We are committed to be a flagship apprenticeship provider, delivering clear career pathways and supporting organisations and businesses to maximise the use of the apprenticeship levy.
The degree and master’s level apprenticeship offer has proved a significant success story for Teesside University.
Our provision is a critical and significant service to the businesses and organisations we work with.
We now have over 2,000 apprentices and offer over 23 programmes to over 200 employers.
Apprentices go on to progress in successful careers and in some cases, win national recognition for their achievements.
In 2019, the University’s level 5 apprenticeship provision was rated as outstanding by Ofsted, from leadership and management to learner outcomes.
Our new strategy sets out our continued commitment to putting quality, governance, leadership and resilience at the heart, providing the strong foundations to grow and expand our offer.
Partners and stakeholders are critical to delivering our strategic ambitions and have clear responsibilities and accountabilities to operationalise this strategy to achieve shared objectives.
As a key driver of the University’s enterprise and knowledge exchange engine, we will convene internal stakeholders, Teesside University College Partnership, industry representative bodies and regional and national government eco-system as partners in our mission.
To celebrate and acknowledge the significant high levels of education, training and dedication required to complete and achieve full occupational competency, we have taken the decision to use the term Professional Apprenticeships to describe Teesside University provision.
We believe this is a fitting description which exemplifies the professional nature of each programme and the achievements of every apprentice who graduates.
The benefits of apprenticeships are great for industry and businesses of all sizes and for the opportunities they offer for people to progress and achieve in their careers.
This strategy will help us connect to the opportunity and the growing demand in the UK.
1
We will rebrand and launch Teesside University Professional Apprenticeships.
2
We will focus on opportunities to build our reputation and expand our market share.
3
We will champion the role of Research and Innovation in creating Industry leading and future focused apprenticeship provision.
4
We will support businesses to access skills for the future economy.
5
We will make it easier for businesses to enhance the capability of their people.
6
We will help businesses to attract and recruit sustainable diverse talent.
7
We will support under-represented groups to access apprenticeship opportunities.
8
We will develop programmes which take account of growth in the green economy and wider societal impacts.
9
We will be seen as a key partner in delivering the government’s Degree Apprenticeship aspirations.
10
We will help build local and national strengths in critical skills development.
Download Professional Apprenticeships Strategy

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/employers.cfm:
Empower your workforce with Professional Apprenticeships
We believe in transforming challenges into opportunities by developing partnerships that shape the workforce of tomorrow.
Our apprenticeship programmes are designed to bridge critical skills gaps and empower businesses to thrive in a competitive world.
From identifying skills gaps to creating customised learning pathways, we ensure our programs deliver measurable impact for your organisation and the wider economy.
Apprentices gain real-world experience while pursuing academic qualifications, combining theory and practice to create a seamless learning journey.
Explore more
Professional apprenticeships integrate workplace learning with academic study, leading to a university degree.
They are tailored to meet the specific needs of your industry.
We offer comprehensive support throughout the apprenticeship process:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/employer_plus.cfm:
Teesside University's Employer Plus is a comprehensive support initiative that offers:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/safeguarding.cfm:
Keeping our apprentices safe.
At Teesside University we take our responsibility to ensure the safety of our students very seriously.
We treat everyone with respect, will not tolerate sexual misconduct, violence, or abuse and we will take all reasonable steps to keep our campus and community safe.
This also extends to our students who have chosen to study at the University as part of an apprenticeship programme.
We are committed to working together to create a fantastic learning experience for our apprentices, and to ensure the highest levels of safety and wellbeing.
The University has a clear commitment to safeguarding, which is overseen by the Lead Safeguarding Officer (LSO).
Their role is to promote and implement the Safeguarding Policy, ensuring that it is reviewed regularly and acted upon.
Additionally, all members of University staff undertake mandatory Safeguarding and Prevent training and have access to additional information, advice and training when appropriate.
Each School and Department has at least one nominated Designated Safeguarding Officer (DSO), who undertakes enhanced mandatory training.
The University includes information on safeguarding in apprentice inductions to ensure learners have the knowledge and advice on how to deal with Safeguarding and Prevent concerns, including details of our policy and procedures.
Employers have a duty to comply with all current and future UK legislation and statutory responsibilities.
There is a particular expectation that an employer should take responsibility for an apprentice's welfare in the workplace and to also seek appropriate advice when they feel an apprentice may be at risk in their personal lives.
We appreciate that for many organisations, this can be a confusing and complex area.
Please refer to the following pages, which explains the University support provided and some of the ways you may wish to incorporate information into your current internal procedures.
Safeguarding is the overarching term used to describe the protection of the health, wellbeing, and human rights of individuals.
Under legislation, all parties involved in an apprenticeship must take reasonable action to minimise risks to apprentices.
This includes aspects of the apprentice's experience, both in and outside of the workplace, as well as during any attendance at university.
Many areas are considered to fall under the definition of safeguarding, including:
As part of the Counterterrorism and Security Act (CTSA) 2015, universities are required to pay 'due regard to the need to prevent individuals from being drawn into terrorism'.
There is no single way of identifying a person who may be vulnerable to extremist ideology, and it is often the culmination of a number of influences.
These can include family, friends, or relationships they have made online.
Extremism can also include non-violent action.
The University is committed to engaging with its students in relation to the Prevent Duty requirements and works with Teesside University Students' Union in this regard.
This engagement includes collaboration and consultation on Prevent Duty policy requirements, as developed and delivered by the University, representation of Student Union Officers and Management on the Prevent & Safeguarding Executive and Working Groups, and ongoing dialogue to ensure that the arrangements between both parties are joined up and effective.
If you find that you need help managing a particular set of circumstances with an apprentice, please don't hesitate to get in touch.
We are here to support you.
An apprentice may feel comfortable talking to some people about an issue and not others.
The University will endeavour to be as transparent as possible with employers, while respecting the apprentice's trust.
Although a lot of safeguarding activity is reactive, we encourage you to have regular meetings and supervisory sessions with your apprentice so that you can act on any concerns that arise.
An apprentice may not seek help, but there are common signs which can help you to recognise when things are wrong:
If the apprentice or someone else is at immediate risk of harm please do not hesitate, call the emergency services.
All new apprentices will complete, or will have completed, a one hour Safeguarding Essentials Training Package session as part of their induction activities as a pilot group.
Apprentices already enrolled, attending the University, and actively completing modules between now and September 2023 will be advised during progress review meetings with their Apprentice Quality Coach as to when and how this training will need to be completed.
Apprentices already enrolled and returning to their programme in the new academic year will receive a specific one-hour briefing and complete the Safeguarding Essentials Training Package.
Apprentices who have entered gateway are not required to complete this learning.
Completions will be monitored monthly and managed with apprentices and line managers through progress review meetings.
We have a duty of care in respect of children, young people and adults at risk - and this training has been introduced to ensure we deliver on our aim to adopt high standards to ensure their safety.
In the first instance initial referrals to Apprenticeship Safeguarding Contact Nadine Baister Senior Quality and Compliance Manager n.baister@tees.ac.uk
Teesside University International Business School Carl Thom School Apprenticeship Manager c.thom@tees.ac.uk
School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law Jo Irving-Walton Principal Lecturer j.irving-walton@tees.ac.uk
School of Health & Life Sciences Trevor Gorringe Deputy School Registrar t.gorringe@tees.ac.uk
School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies Caroline Laverick School Registrar c.laverick@tees.ac.uk
School of Arts & Creative Industries Jill Grimwood School Registrar j.grimwood@tees.ac.uk
Lead Safeguarding Officer Helen Cutting University Secretary and Executive Director of Legal and Governance Services h.cutting@tees.ac.uk
Safeguarding Co-ordinator Victoria Dixon Deputy Director of Legal and Governance Services v.dixon@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/leadership.cfm:
We believe ambition shouldn't wait for tomorrow.
That's why we're encouraging businesses to take advantage of a critical opportunity to invest in future leadership development now.
The government is consulting on potential changes to the apprenticeship levy funding, which could impact access to some Level 7 apprenticeships soon.
If implemented, these changes may restrict funding for advanced programmes, potentially limiting opportunities for top-tier leadership and strategic development.
The government is currently consulting on proposed changes to levy funding, which could lead to the removal of some Level 7 apprenticeships.
Currently, businesses can use their levy to access high-value programmes, such as the Senior Leader Apprenticeship (with Integrated MBA from Teesside University) , but this funding window may narrow.
Should the proposed changes go into effect, accessing levy funds for these premium programmes could become more challenging.
Being proactive now means you can make the most of your apprenticeship levy, helping you to upskill your senior leaders with qualifications that deliver real, measurable benefits.
Our Level 7 apprenticeships empower leadership teams to:
We offer a range of Level 7 apprenticeships tailored to develop the next generation of leaders, including:
Fully mapped to the apprenticeship standard, our Senior Leader MBA equips leaders with advanced, practical skills to navigate complex global challenges.
This programme is ideal for reflective, entrepreneurial, and responsible leaders who aim to drive their organisations forward in a competitive environment.
Designed for those who work within museums, galleries, libraries, archives, and cultural institutions, the Curator MA is accessible across England through an intensive, blended learning model.
This programme provides the expertise needed for professionals to effectively engage audiences with arts, culture, heritage, and environmental initiatives.
Our Sustainability Business Specialist MSc is crafted for leaders committed to embedding sustainable practices within their organisations.
Combining theoretical knowledge with practical experience, this programme enables professionals to make a tangible impact in sustainable business, positioning their organisations for long-term growth and resilience.
This is a unique MBA course for creative leaders, blending intensive study weeks and online learning so it is accessible regardless of the apprentice's location.
The time to act is now.
Leverage your apprenticeship levy before these changes take effect and secure the leadership development your business needs to thrive.
Get in touch today to find out how we can tailor our Level 7 programmes to meet your specific business needs.
Don't wait.
Ensure your leadership team is prepared for tomorrow's challenges.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/apprentices.cfm:
Unlock your future with a Professional Apprenticeship
We believe in bold ideas and innovative thinking.
That's why our professional apprenticeships are designed to give you the skills, knowledge, and real-world experience you need to shape your future and redefine what's possible in your career.
A professional apprenticeship offers a unique opportunity to combine academic learning with practical, hands-on experience.
You'll work towards a university degree while applying your knowledge in real-time, gaining valuable insights that set you apart in a competitive job market.
This is a unique MBA course for creative leaders, blending intensive study weeks and online learning so it is accessible regardless of the apprenticeâ€™s location.
Get paid to develop in-demand skills while earning a degree, with no tuition feeds to worry about.
Our programmes are developed with top employers to ensure your learning is relevant, practical and future-proof.
From your first day on campus to your final project at work, you'll have a dedicated team of mentors, tutors, and advisors guiding your journey.
Gain skills that put you at the forefront of your field, with access to cutting-edge facilities, research, and technologies.
Your work will matter.
From solving real business challenges to contributing to transformative projects, you'll be making a difference from the start.
With your employer's support, explore our wide range of programmes tailored to industries like healthcare, engineering, digital technology, and more.
Balance on-the-job training with academic coursework, supported by flexible delivery options to suit your needs.
Graduate with a degree, professional experience, and the confidence to take your career to the next level.
Explore our case studies of successful apprenticeships.
'I wanted to deepen and accelerate my on-the-job learning, and improve prospects in my new job.
'
Read more
'It has allowed me to have access to an array of resources that were previously unavailable to me.
'The course has helped me identify growth opportunities and manage projects to improve healthcare services.
It also prepares me for leadership roles where I can drive innovation and growth commercially in the healthcare sector.
'It's been game-changing in influencing my approach to leadership, sustainability and creating a high performing working culture.'
'Combining academic study and practical application with support from the University, my workplace and my mentor significantly boosted my skills and confidence.
'I like the variety that comes with it – dipping my toes into all four fields of nursing and the experiences that comes with them.'
'The Sustainable Business Specialist Apprenticeship is invaluable at bridging the gap between academic theory and real-world application.
As a Sustainability Programme Manager at ITV, driving meaningful change is central to my role, and the opportunity to gain technical expertise while connecting with sustainability professionals across various industries allows me to grow both personally and professionally.'
'Putting practical real-life context to the theory really helps to cement concepts in my mind.
The structured approach of an apprenticeship embodying this way of learning was a no-brainer for me.'
'I have found it really rewarding to take the time to review academic research on topics that are very relevant to my day job and have enjoyed debating complex topics with the rest of the cohort.'

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/courses.cfm:
Here at Teesside University we work closely with employers to provide educational and training solutions that meet their needs.
We offer a range of both higher apprenticeships (levels 4 and 5) and degree apprenticeships (levels 6 and 7) based on approved national standards.
We are continually adding more opportunities to the list as new national standards become available.
To be accepted on to a degree apprenticeship course you must have support from your employer, and also meet the course entry requirements - you can find these on the course pages below.
Art psychotherapy is a rapidly expanding intervention within sectors including health, education, and social care.
Sustainability is now essential for futureproofing any organisation.
As climate change, ethical responsibility and corporate accountability increasingly shape the way businesses operate, companies must adapt to remain resilient and competitive.
This apprenticeship equips learners with the practical skills and technical knowledge to support the financial and contractual management of building projects from start to finish.
Dietitians work with individuals, groups and communities, enabling them to improve their health and wellbeing by managing nutrition and food-related issues.
As a higher apprentice you will be in employment in a health-related role while studying part time for a work-based foundation degree in health and social care.
The higher apprenticeship offers you the opportunity to extend your clinical skills and also identify and develop your understanding of the theory underpinning practice.
This apprenticeship develops skilled diagnostic radiographers through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical experience.
Students gain expertise in anatomy, radiographic techniques, and patient care, supported by hands-on clinical placements.
The apprentice develops a global mind-set with the application of theoretical approaches to professional management issues for effective health care, particularly in relation to the apprentice’s own context.
Developed in consultation with senior managers and employers to meet the education and training needs of care support workers, this course can lead to employment as a nursing associate, and eligibility to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
This course provides the springboard for the apprentice to achieve their personal career aspirations to become a registered nurse specialising in adult nursing.
This course provides the springboard for the apprentice to achieve personal career aspirations to become a registered nurse specialising in child nursing.
This course provides the springboard for the apprentice to achieve personal career aspirations to become a registered nurse specialising in learning disabilities nursing.
This course provides the springboard for apprentices to achieve personal career aspirations to become a registered nurse specialising in mental health nursing.
This degree apprenticeship is ideal for learners who are employed as a healthcare worker and you as the employer are willing to support their professional development.
This operating department practice (ODP) degree apprenticeship is for learners who are employed as healthcare workers and you as the employer is willing to support their professional development.
This professional apprenticeship ensures the apprentice has the depth of knowledge, skills and experiences to be a highly skilled autonomous practitioner.
They will confidently assess, prioritise, transfer, manage, treat, refer and discharge service users in the community.
This physiotherapy degree apprenticeship is ideal for learners who are employed as a healthcare worker and you as the employer is willing to support their professional development.
The apprentice is equipped to be a skilled public health practitioner, who can lead on the implementation and delivery of public health services, programmes and interventions, and translate public health vision, strategy and policy into operational deliverables.
For registered nurses or midwives looking for a practice-based programme to become a health visitor.
Apprentices learn to contribute positively to the new public health agenda, tackling health inequalities on an individual and community basis.
For registered nurses or midwives looking for a practice-based programme to become a school nurse.
The apprentice learns the skills and knowledge to be a proficient, confident and innovative district nurse or non-medical prescriber, who can deliver evidence-based care while leading a team and managing a caseload of patients with complex needs.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/degree_apprenticeships/contact.cfm:
Please choose the relevant option below.
Complete our form if you are an employer.
Employer enquiry
Complete our form to see if you are eligable.
Employee Enquiry
business@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/research_ref.cfm:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) assesses the quality of research in UK Higher Education Institutions, with the aim of providing accountability for public research funding, making available benchmarking information, and driving the allocation of quality-related funding to support UK research.
REF assesses the quality of research outputs, from journal papers to art exhibitions and everything in between; the economic, social and cultural impact of research, and each university's research environment.
The University submitted to five UoAs in REF 2021:
At Teesside we transform lives and economies.
We pride ourselves on delivering research that addresses the challenges of today and makes a real difference to individuals, organisations and society.
In the REF 2021, the majority of our research was judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent in terms of the social, economic and cultural impact it delivers.
In the seven years since the previous REF, the University has significantly invested in research, making many excellent staff appointments, growing the number of active researchers, constructing state-of-the-art research facilities and enabling a supportive research culture.
The work of 251 research active staff was submitted to REF 2021; a significant increase since the previous REF 2014.
Whilst growing our research community considerably we also maintained, and in many areas enhanced, the quality of our research.
The quality of our research environment was also found to have increased.
REF 2021 TU Research is combatting organised crime Research carried out at Teesside University has informed the development of key national security strategies to counter criminal activity and illicit financing, helping to make communities safer and reducing social harm.
Research carried out at Teesside University has informed the development of key national security strategies to counter criminal activity and illicit financing, helping to make communities safer and reducing social harm.
REF 2021 TU Research is addressing childhood obesity Research from Teesside University resulted in new rules banning the advertising and selling of these products to children, including energy drinks, in children’s media and on supermarket shelves, improving the health and wellbeing of the nation’s young people.
Research from Teesside University resulted in new rules banning the advertising and selling of these products to children, including energy drinks, in children’s media and on supermarket shelves, improving the health and wellbeing of the nation’s young people.
REF 2021 TU Research is improving the representation of disability in public and cultural spaces By preserving hidden histories of disability, researchers at Teesside University have ensured the creativity of those with disabilities is centre stage in the arts and mainstream media.
This work has improved the representation of disability in public and cultural spaces, driving positive social change and inclusivity.
By preserving hidden histories of disability, researchers at Teesside University have ensured the creativity of those with disabilities is centre stage in the arts and mainstream media.
REF 2021 TU Research is creating smarter, greener energy solutions Researchers at Teesside University have developed smart tools that automatically adapt to changing energy demand and production.
Researchers at Teesside University have developed smart tools that automatically adapt to changing energy demand and production.
Our Code of Practice outlines the processes we used to prepare our submission, specifically: how staff with significant responsibility for research were identified; how research independence was determined; and how outputs were selected for submission.
The final Code of Practice was submitted to Research England in November 2020.
Code of Practice .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/net_zero.cfm:
Our pioneering research operates at the intersection of diverse disciplines, bringing together the brightest minds in engineering solutions, digital technologies, the creative industries, social policy, and business research.
We are collaborating with industry partners on research and innovation that will deliver significant global impact across hydrogen production and storage, carbon capture, circular economy, intelligent energy, and industrial systems, as well as AI prediction and digital modelling.
Successful industry partnerships and strong community engagement is delivering projects dedicated to catalysing change, fostering sustainable progress, and empowering industry and society to achieve their net zero ambition.
Spearheading this transformative journey is our flagship £13.1m Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre (NZIIC) , which is already playing a vital role in the delivery of net zero ambitions.
A hub for industrial collaboration and innovation and a national centre of excellence for net zero technologies, the centre is providing a focus for major investment, generating global interest and creating hundreds more clean energy jobs.
More about Net Zero
OptiWare leverages non-intrusive artificial intelligence (AI) and sensor fusion to streamline port warehouse operations, enhancing efficiency, compliance, and security.
By automating consignment tracking, it reduces manual workload and accelerates investigations.
Teesside University’s research is advancing net-zero goals by integrating additive manufacturing, advanced materials, and AI-driven optimisation to enhance sustainability in engineering and manufacturing.
Multidisciplinary research and innovation at the Centre for Digital Innovation sees academics, researchers and students work collaboratively across areas including health and wellbeing, biosciences, social science, engineering, business and education.
More about Centre for Digital Innovation
The Centre for Sustainable Engineering focuses on the design, development, and enhancement of engineering systems, processes, and products that are efficient and sustainable without compromising the natural environment.
More about Centre for Sustainable Engineering

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/health_wellbeing.cfm:
Our health-focussed research convenes expertise from digital, engineering, physiological, medical and social policy disciplines to improve the health of the nation and prepare for the challenges of the future.
We have established a professional network of health practitioners, industry, and academia to co-create solutions, improving detection, discovery and diagnosis of disease and enhancing patient care and medical efficiency.
We work with people and communities to ensure that the research priorities and innovations we support are developed in collaboration with people with health conditions or with lived experience of accessing health service support.
Through our Health Innovation Centre, we have developed novel devices with industry and European partners to support the recovery and rehabilitation of patients.
Powering our specialist expertise in disease-specific research is our National Horizons Centre , a £22.3m centre of excellence for the biosciences and healthcare that works with industry partners to discover diseases earlier, develop novel treatments and deliver life-saving medicines quicker, safer and more affordably.
The NHC houses a world class research community, working with the latest cutting-edge technologies and partners to generate real impact.
More about NHC
Teesside University researchers are using artificial intelligence (AI) to enhance cancer diagnostics, training deep learning models to improve accuracy and revolutionise treatment.
Teesside University’s MenopauseXR uses AI-powered VR to enhance menopause awareness, creating empathy, educating employers and healthcare professionals, and promoting inclusive support for menopausal women in workplaces and healthcare settings.
The Centre for Public Health enables, facilitates, identifies and disseminates public health research in co-production across the University and externally with commissioners and communities - on a local, national and international scale.
More about Centre for Public Health
The core philosophy of personal best - optimising and maintaining function and performance - sits at the heart of the Centre for Rehabilitation.
More about Centre for Rehabilitation
The National Horizons Centre (NHC) is a £22.3m centre of excellence for the bioscience industries.
With research, partnerships and training at its core, the NHC brings together industry, academia, talent and world-class facilities to create real-world impact.
More about National Horizons Centre (Biosciences)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/people_place.cfm:
Drawing on our cross-disciplinary research strengths in arts, humanities, social sciences, and business, we work alongside community partners and industry to foster democratic, creative and vibrant visions for the future.
By focusing on civic pride and utilising community-led initiatives, we address regional disparities and drive social impact for regions across the world.
We align creativity with new technology, increasing community cohesion and democratic engagement and enhancing wellbeing, happiness and quality of life.
Our collaborative research creates place-based policies that reflect the relationship between people, place, politics and socio-economics.
Through our place-based research, we are connecting communities, industry and education, driving engagement with environmental sustainability and regional green energy goals.
Through our local health networks, we are reducing health inequalities and driving improved community wellbeing through the co-creation of impactful research.
The UK2070 Commission established a programme of locally based taskforces in support of the ambition for all cities, regions and nations to be at the heart of the UK's drive for a future greener, more inclusive economy.
These collaborative partnerships enable enhanced capacity for strategic action on those matters that need a wider geographical perspective, for example, economic development and connectivity.
More about Teesside Taskforce
Teesside University research highlights how project-based learning bridges the gap between theory and industry, equipping students with future-ready skills.
The Institute for Collective Place Leadership undertakes place-based research to support regional growth, development and regeneration through creative and collaborative approaches that brings together policymakers, communities, businesses and academics.
Our research equips place-based leaders with the tools, skills and knowledge to operate in complex and changing environments, to develop responsible and sustainable practices, and to imagine alternative and inclusive futures.
More about The Institute for Collective Place Leadership

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/events.cfm:
There are 2 events

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/portal.cfm:
The University's Research Portal showcases our research and related activities.
Details of our academic expertise, from across our Schools, research groups and centres, can be found on the Portal.
If you are interested in working with us or studying at the University, you can search the Portal for named researchers, centres or groups, or use keywords to find the expertise which is most relevant to you.
If you are a member of staff or a student at the University, please find below our guidance notes and privacy notice related to the Research Portal.
If you have any queries, please contact researchportal@tees.ac.uk
Research portal
Pure is the University's Research Information System, and addresses two main aims:
Pure gives us:
Pure is managed by Research & Enterprise Office, and the outputs repository is managed by Student and Library Services.
All members of academic and research staff, research students and professional doctorate students, can set up a profile within Pure.
Pure is a web-based system and can be accessed from any location.
Pure allows users to create and maintain an online profile, manage output records including to comply with Open Access requirements, and promote projects and other activities.
A guiding principle of Pure is that users control their own data, and have the ability to directly maintain profile and other information within Pure.
The main benefits of Pure are:
The University is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), and will use Pure to inform research assessment in accordance with the principles of DORA.
Further information is available here .
All Pure users are responsible for checking, amending and updating their information, including data which will be made publicly visible on the Research Portal.
When adding information to Pure, please take care to select the correct level of visibility (please see the section below on 'Who has access to the data within Pure?').
Many items of data added to Pure have the potential to be sensitive in some way; please ensure that you take care when adding data.
All Pure users must comply with the IT Acceptable Use Policy .
The following are imported from other University systems into Pure:
Members of staff and students with access to Pure are able to create, develop and maintain the following information:
Some of the information within Pure is only visible on the admin site.
Only information in the following categories is currently visible on the Research Portal:
The visibility of the records can be controlled on the admin site using the following options:
'Public - no restriction' is set as the default access level for all Staff Profiles, outputs and project records.
The visibility of outputs must be maintained to ensure compliance with Open Access requirements, including for REF.
Staff in Research & Enterprise Office and Student & Library Services access Pure to maintain content and generate reports.
Student and Library Services checks and validates outputs before they are published on the Research Portal.
Some staff in Schools also have access to Pure, for example to support research impact work or to access CVs for programme approval and review.
If you are a doctoral or research degree student and are on campus, you will need to log into your PC with your student number and password, rather than your staff ID if you have one.
If you log on whilst off-campus, please log in using your student number and password
By default, the records of all PhD, Professional Doctorate and MPhil students are not visible on the public Research Portal.
This is to allow you, as a student, to choose whether to make your profile visible.
If you are a student and would like to make your profile visible on the Portal, log into Pure and follow the link from your Personal page to edit your profile.
This will open a new window.
You can change the visibility of your profile at the bottom of this page, under Visibility.
Change to 'Public - No Restriction' and click the save button to make your profile visible on the Portal.
If you make your profile visible on Pure and subsequently request 'No Publicity' within the University's student records system, you will need to change the visibility of your Pure profile separately by selecting 'Backend - restricted to Pure users' under the Visibility section.
Your profile will not be hidden automatically when you select 'No Publicity' if you have previously made your profile publicly available.
Data can be added to Pure by selecting the green Add Content button, which will open a new window, and selecting the relevant content type.
Please select the content type you wish to create, and work through the fields in the template provided (e.g.
for a journal article).
Mandatory fields are marked with a red asterisk, but please add as much information as possible.
Adding other Pure users to a record (using the 'Add person' option) will allow them to view and edit the record, which will also become part of their profile.
Select the 'edit profile' button to make changes to your profile in the admin site (these changes will then be visible on the public Research Portal).
Photographs can be added, along with links to other websites (including LinkedIn, Twitter, Research Gate, Facebook and other sites).
If you add a link to your LinkedIn profile, for example, the relevant icon will display underneath your photograph on your profile page on the Research Portal.
Select 'Add profile information' under Curriculum and Research Description to add details of your academic biography, research interests, etc.
Your HR data and details of the PhD and MPhil students who you supervise will be shown on your profile page on the admin site, but only limited information is displayed publicly on the Portal.
For members of staff, your email address is added automatically to your profile on the Research Portal.
If you would like to add a telephone number, select 'edit profile' from your Personal page and scroll down to the Organisational Affiliations section.
Click 'edit' next to your current staff affiliation, and a new window will open; you can add your telephone number to the electronic addresses section.
ORCID is an identifier which helps you to link your activities such as publishing and applying for project funding, and brings together your information regardless of factors such as name changes and spelling variations.
You can either link your existing ORCID to Pure, or create an ORCID in Pure.
Your outputs will then export from Pure to your ORCID record, so that you only have to enter new outputs once in Pure.
To link or create your ORCID:
A link to your Portal profile will show on your ORCID page, and a link to your ORCID page will be added to your Portal profile.
Pure updates ORCID on a nightly basis with research outputs with the status 'e-pub ahead of print' or 'published', and which have been validated.
Please see Student and Library Services' LibGuide to depositing your outputs.
You can create a Project record from scratch or by using the details of a funding award (these are imported from the University's Finance system).
To create a Project record based on a funding award, go the Award Management tab at the top of the screen.
This will bring up a list of your awards.
Select the award you want to use to create a Project record and click the small pencil icon in the left-hand corner to allow you to edit the record.
Scroll down to 'related project' and click 'save and create project'.
This will open a new window allowing you to choose which content to carry over from the award to the project record.
Click 'create' to open a new window for the Project, which you can populate with an abstract, team members, partner organisations and other details.
Please remember to hit the 'save' button at the bottom of the window before closing it.
A Project Board was established to oversee the implementation of Pure, and agreed the following principles for Project records:
When adding a Project to Pure:
Records can be linked to show the connection, or relations, between them.
This helps to illustrate the links between, for example, projects and outputs or media coverage.
Creating relations is one of the main ways to create a rich dataset and reflect a body of work within Pure.
Relations can be created towards the end of each record.
All related content will be show on the same page on the Research Portal (for example, linked research outputs will be listed on a Project page, and vice versa).
All users can create a CV in Pure, selecting from either:
In both cases, you can select which information to include as part of your CV, choosing from your populated sections of Pure.
To create a CV, click to Add Content from your Personal page.
Select the Curriculum Vitae option and choose which type of CV you would like to create.
Select which categories you would like to include and click on each header to control the content.
For example, you can choose which types of output to include, or set a date range for the content.
New content such as outputs will be automatically included in your CV, unless you choose to make a content type static using the 'Dynamic / static list' option within each content type.
Your CV can be edited on the screen and exported as Word document or a PDF.
You can customise Pure by selecting 'edit profile' and 'Portal profile'.
This gives the option to:
You can also select 'Highlighted content' to pin content to the top of your list of outputs, projects, press and media records, and student theses.
By default, the most recent content appears at the top of the list, so highlighting content will allow you to showcase your most significant work or activities.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/nhc:
Biodiscovery

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/statement_spinout_companies.cfm:
Teesside University's mission is to transform lives and economies and we see the commercialisation of research as a vital contributor to this aim.
We have a small portfolio of spin-outs which we have an ambition to grow and welcome the recommendations of the Independent Review of University Spin-Out Companies which encourages innovation and the growth of academic research into commercial prospects.
Our recent recently reviewed Intellectual Property (Staff and Students) Policy supports the findings of the review.
However, as part of our ongoing commitment to adopt the Review findings we will:
As our portfolio of spin-outs grows, we will commit to keep under review our approach within the framework of the recommendations of the Review to ensure our approach is consistent with the spirit of the Recommendations and the USIT Guide.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/governance.cfm:
Teesside University is committed to maintaining high ethical standards of research integrity and conduct.
For more information contact Dr Andrew Rawnsley Research Governance & Training Manager T: 01642 738046 E: a.rawnsley@tees.ac.uk
Teesside University subscribes to an ethic of personal responsibility by which individual researchers and, in the case of students, their supervisors, should have some degree of autonomy and take personal responsibility for their research.
However, we also have a set of principles for the ethical conduct of research which must be adhered to by all researchers at the University.
More about research ethics
Teesside University has guidelines that address the institutional requirement for an agreed set of principles for the conduct of research and outline a formal system for investigating allegations of research misconduct.
We also subscribe to national and international guidelines on research integrity.
More about research integrity and conduct
The University uses personally-identifiable information obtained from research participants to conduct research.
The Universityï¿½s privacy notice for research, policy and principles for use of personal data in research and other information for research participants are available here.
More about research and personal data
We offer extensive training opportunities for all staff and students in both ethics and integrity of research.
The one-day programme 'research ethics in-depth' is offered three times a year and gives a broad introduction to research ethics and topics such as consent, risk, and confidentiality.
We also offer workshops on aspects of conduct and integrity, and publication ethics.
The University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee meets four times a year.
Chair: Professor Tim Thompson; Secretary: Dr Andrew Rawnsley.
Each of our five academic schools has a School Research Ethics Committee.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_impact_framework.cfm:
The Teesside University Impact Framework outlines the values and behaviours, capabilities and competencies, and mechanisms for advancing research impact at Teesside University.
The framework seeks to ensure that our approach to impact is:
Our overarching approach to research impact centres on six core values and behaviours:
Our responsible approach to research impact is delivered through four key mechanisms:
Although there is inevitably overlap and intersections between these pathways, these pathways or mechanism for research impact are used to direct and focus our support structures and offer, which are broadly aligned two 'types' of researcher: the engaged researcher and the enterprising researcher.
The compentencies and capabiltiies aligned to each of these 'types' and the aligned impact pathways are detailed below.
Our researcher development programme combined with the TU learning and development offer provides training and support in these areas.
Intellectual abilities
Personal effectiveness
Research governance and organisation
Engagement, influence and impact
Knowledge and intellectual abilities

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/evaluation_and_impact.cfm:
The Evaluation and Impact Team was formed in April 2019 to meet the demand by external agencies for research that informs and benefits the local and regional economy.
The Team is made up of three permanent researchers dedicated to responding to external requests for research informed evaluation and interventions.
We work with organisations to tackle major challenges in a holistic way by:
The Evaluation and Impact Team are highly skilled in real-world research using a variety of techniques and methods and work alongside Teesside University staff to provide access and support for new research opportunities.
Support is provided to academics to bid for, and successfully complete contract research opportunities.
The team uses its networks to bring together University experts with businesses, third sector organisations and other universities to facilitate partnership opportunities.
Email us directly with your query and we will get in touch to arrange a discussion about how we, or our colleagues can help.
Research centres
Helen leads the day-to-day work of the Evaluation and Impact Team.
Helen studied at Durham University, where she obtained a BSc (Hons) in Cell Biology.
She followed that up with an MSc in Information Technology, and a PhD in Nutrition and Obesity both from Teesside University.
Her PhD consisted of two Cochrane systematic reviews and an analysis of data from a large cohort of patients with Type 2 Diabetes.
Helen has worked as a Research Associate on a large educational value added assessment project, as a Post-Doctoral Research Associate on many different trials and evaluation projects, as a Lecturer in Research Methods, as a Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Manager at Teesside University and, most recently, as the EPSRC Knowledge Exchange Manager at Durham University.
Helen's research focuses on public health, children and education, and is supported by a two-pronged approach: a) synthesising the currently available primary evidence into a review format (rapid reviews to systematic reviews) and b) the development and evaluation of community based interventions to prevent and treat obesity in children.
Helen's skills are varied, but she particularly enjoys helping people design their evaluation work to generate the most useful results with the resource available.
Helen is a member of the Association of the Study of Obesity, Fuse, SPHR, and the Cochrane Collaboration.
Helen is well published, and her work is highly cited; all citations: 6500, h-index: 33, i10-index: 47.
She regularly publishes in high-ranking and impactful journals including, Journal of Sports Science, Trials, Systematic Reviews, Obesity Reviews, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, The BMJ, BMJ Open, and Journal of Physical Activity and Health.
Helen has an excellent track record of attracting research grant funding.
Helen has previously supervised a number of PhD and MPhil candidates to completion.
See Helen's full biography
Nick joined the Evaluation and Impact Team from Northumbria University where he completed a PhD focusing on regional governance and economies in England, and the notion of place based or "place sensitive" development.
Prior to this Nick worked for several years as policy advisor in Local Government, leading or to multiple policy areas including economic analysis, devolution and regional governance, welfare reform, migration and asylum, and social inclusion.
In this role, Nick's successful projects included, A living wage for Newcastle, The Newcastle Fairness Commission, and the Newcastle Future Needs Assessment â€“ a collaborative and evidence-based approach to bringing partners together to determine priorities for the city.
Nick's research interests include in urban and regional governance and development (particularly UK regional economic inequality), labour markets, and social security policy.
He is an experienced qualitative researcher, including interviewing and content analysis and he also expert in the use of quantitative data to develop and evaluate public policy.
Nick's academic projects include the political economy of place-based development, a detailed empirical and critical investigation into current subnational policy, focussing on its geographies, political relationships, decentralised institutions, and emergent policy rhetoric and planning for growth, an exploration of the potential role of local enterprise partnerships in spatial planning.
See Nick's full biography
Hannah graduated in 2012 from Leeds University with first class honours in Psychological Science and is finalising her MSc in Health Psychology and Clinical Skills at Teesside University.
Hannah also has a University Advanced Certificate in Cognitive Behavioural Studies and Skills from the University of Derby.
Hannah has worked in a variety of roles in the housing sector, most recently as Research Analyst on the Policy and Research team at Thirteen.
In this role she delivered a range of qualitative and quantitative research projects on issues subjects affecting Thirteen and their customers, such as debt and income.
Prior to this she worked in business development, where she supported on a number of high-level strategic projects in the employability and training sector, including the development of grants and bids.
One of these projects being DWP's and ESF's Youth Employment Initiative (YEI) programme which brought over of 1.5million pounds into the Tees Valley, and so far, has supported over 1200 people with employment education or training support.
Her career began as a support worker and she has worked in settings for young parents, mental health, families within the social care system and individuals suffering drug and alcohol addiction.
Hannah is interested in research which focuses on reducing health inequalities and increases psychological, physical and social wellbeing for vulnerable groups.
Her current research looks at the relationship between in-work poverty and health behaviours.
Hannah is interested in drug and alcohol research and support interventions, with previous work looking at legal highs.
Future interests include suicidality prevention and the link between health and housing including e-health innovations such as telecare.
Hannah particularly enjoys implementing new contracts and taking projects from inception to routine operation.
See Hannah's full biography
Andrea graduated with a first-class honours degree in Sociology and was awarded a distinction in her MPH in Public Health (both from Teesside University).
Prior to re-entering education in 2012, Andrea had worked for a strategic outsourcing company, where she was responsible for performance management, tradespeople and customer liaison, marketing and customer satisfaction.
Andrea joined Teesside University in 2015 working on projects looking at the impact of loneliness and social isolation, and the challenges faced by those at risk of extreme hardship.
Andrea's research interests focus on reducing health inequalities and the impacts of poverty, such as food insecurity.
Andrea works on various research and evaluation projects with the most recent being the evaluation of a blood-borne virus test prompt in local GP surgeries to help tackle rates of late diagnosis of HIV, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C.
See Andrea's full biography
Professor Paul Crawshaw is Dean of the School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law, responsible for strategic leadership of the School, and is an internationally recognised medical sociologist with particular interests in public health, risk and health governance.
See Paul's full biography
Professor Natasha Vall is the Associate Dean for Research and Innovation in the School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law, and a Professor of urban and cultural history.
See Natasha's full biography
Dr Helen Dudiak is the Associate Dean for Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange in the School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law.
The team has expertise in the following areas:
The team has significant experience in using applied quantitative and qualitative data analysis methods using various computer programs including:
The team has worked on a wide variety of research projects and evaluations and have particular strengths in the following methods:
The Evaluation and Impact Team has collectively over 20 years of project management experience, providing support to the development of bids, grants and tenders.
We can support you with various elements of project management including:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/impact_acceleration_account.cfm:
The IAA is designed to support the development and implementation of impact and will be managed by the Centre for Culture and Creativity.
The funding will be transformational for our research and the communities we serve, actively supporting the levelling up agenda of the Tees Valley and the cultural renewal of post-industrial towns and cities in the UK and internationally.
It aims to:
Resources will be used to support work to develop impact within three themes:
IAA funding will support training, events, activities, residencies, and secondments where the proposed outcome aligns with the IAA's themes.
Applicants can be full or part-time academic staff who are part of the Centre for Culture and Creativity.
The IAA Support Board also welcomes applications from collaborations between Centre members and academics from Teesside University.
Download an application form Download the application guidelines
As Research Fellow for the IAA Sally Blackburn-Daniels will be your first point of contact for IAA related questions and queries.
Email Sally on s.blackburn-daniels@tees.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/impact_public_engagement.cfm:
As a signatory to the Manifesto for Public Engagement we adopt NCCPE's broad definition of public engagement which recognises how our work informs and is informed by stakeholders including the public, communities, government, and business.
Public engagement describes the myriad of ways in which the activity and benefits of higher education and research can be shared with the public.
Engagement is by definition a two-way process, involving interaction and listening, with the goal of generating mutual benefit.
Public and community engagement (P&CE) activities at Teesside University embody the university's stated mission to 'transform lives and economies', ensuring its work meets community needs, is shaped by society, and drives local economic growth and productivity.
Our community and public engagement strategy has four goals, which are to:
P&CE priorities are embedded in our Research and Innovation (R&I) , Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange (E&KE), and Community and Social Impact (CI&SI) strategies.
We have committed to:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/students_current.cfm:
The FAQs below give information for current postgraduate research students.
Please see our intranet site for further resources to support you during your research degree.
You may also be interested in details of our  our researcher development programme, training and events and key research policies.
You can also get in touch with the relevant contact detailed in the sections below.
The formatting requirements for a thesis are given in the Framework and Regulations for the Award of Higher Degrees by Research Section B4.3vi.
A separate pdf document covering format requirements is also available from Research & Enterprise Office.
You will submit according to your own progress and timetable for submission.
Full-time students should aim to submit their thesis in around three to four years.
Part-time students should aim to submit their thesis in around six to seven years.
The maximum time for full-time students is four years, and seven years for part-time students.
If you do not submit within this period, you will need to apply for an extension of registration or your submission will be invalidated.
All theses should be submitted to Research & Enterprise Office.
Contact Dr Andrew Rawnsley at a.rawnsley@tees.ac.uk for further information.
Viva examinations are arranged by Research & Enterprise Office and not by Schools.
The first thing to do to resolve a problem is to discuss it with your supervisors.
If the issue is not resolved, then the postgraduate tutor should be able to help, or you may be referred to the Associate Dean (Research & Innovation) â€“ or equivalent â€“ or the Dean of School.
If all avenues have been tried with no result, then please discuss the issue with staff in Research & Enterprise Office.
You MUST re-enrol annually.
This applies to everyone studying for a research degree, regardless of stage or status.
You will need to re-enrol on the anniversary of your original start date.
If you do not re-enrol annually you are no longer formally a student and are likely to be withdrawn.
You cannot submit your thesis if you are not enrolled.
If you think you'll have problems paying your fees you should still re-enrol as it may be possible to make alternative arrangements with Finance.
If you encounter problems with re-enrolling, contact Research & Enterprise Office immediately.
English language courses are available through our School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law.
Two types of courses are available: generic English language courses for basic English, taught in classes along with undergraduate and other taught degree students, and some specialised English language courses for research students.
Please contact Research & Enterprise Office for further details.
All research degree admissions are handled by Research & Enterprise Office, so if you have a problem with enrolment you should inform us first.
Enrolment is completed online (using e-Vision) and Finance can advise if you have any issues.
The administration of your degree is managed by Schools and by Research & Enterprise Office.
If you have a question about routine matters of administration then the first person to approach is the postgraduate tutor or the secretary/administrator for the School.
If you are still unsure about an aspect of your degree administration, then talk to staff in Research & Enterprise Office.
Visa extensions are issued on the basis of evidence that you are still a student and require more time to complete your programme.
The best place to go for advice on visas and extensions is Student Life.
Immigration is complex and it is always best to get expert advice.
Please note that there are fees for visas and extensions.
If you are funded by a Research Councils UK studentship, extra funding to attend training events is provided.
For other students, please enquire within your School.
Each School has a small fund to support each research student to attend at least one conference or event over the course of their research degree.
Annual Review is an important element of your degree where the University determines whether your work has progressed sufficiently for you to be allowed to continue your programme of research.
It takes place at the end of each year for all students, both full and part time, and is aligned with the anniversary of your first date of enrolment.
The date of enrolment and subsequent annual review dates is given to you in your offer letter.
Each year, you will be sent a reminder to submit for annual review and invited to attend a meeting where you will be asked questions about your report and your research.
Annual review assessors make a recommendation to the School and then to the Postgraduate Research Assessment Board.
Students who successfully pass the annual review progress further on the degree of registration, with two further review stages if required.
Students who have not met the standard required after three unsuccessful review stages may be recommended to progress further on a lower degree (MPhil rather than PhD) or recommended for withdrawal.
Awards ceremonies take place annually.
Your degree must have been ratified in sufficient time for you to attend the following ceremony.
You will be invited to attend by Finance, who are responsible for arrangements at awards ceremonies.
Research & Enterprise Office do not organise awards ceremonies and cannot issue invitations or issue you with tickets for guests.
Research & Enterprise Office - REO School of Computing & Digital Technologies - SCEDT School of Health & Life Sciences - SoH School of Arts & Creative Industries - SACI School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law - SSSHL Teesside University International Business School - TUBS University Research Degrees Committeee - URDC University Research Ethics Committee - UREC University Research Degrees Board - URDB

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_information.cfm:
The University has several systems to support you to manage your research, from identifying funding opportunities to sharing your research outputs, datasets and profile.
The research portal provides public access to staff and student profiles, outputs, datasets and projects.
The portal is populated by Pure, our research information system.
Guidance notes on using Pure and building your profile on the research portal are available.
The University's Research Data Management Policy sets the requirement that a data management plan should be developed for all new research projects.
The goal is to support the effective management of research data.
DMP Online provides templates and guidance for the development of data management plans, and can be accessed here .
Choose the option to sign in with your institutional credentials and search for Teesside University to access the site.
Our Research Data Management Policy sets out the University's commitment to the FAIR principles of ensuring the findability, accessibility, interoperability and reuse of research data.
Our research data repository allows research datasets to be openly shared.
Each published dataset is assigned a DOI as a persistent identifier.
Any datasets added to the repository are also included in your profile on the research portal.
Find further details in our LibGuide .
We subscribe to Research Professional, a database of research funding opportunities which can be used to set up tailored searches and email alerts
You can find out more about our support for research funding and access Research Professional .
Applications for research ethics review must be made on our online system .
Please refer to the system guidance .
If you are involved in reviewing applications as part of a School Research Ethics Committee, you can also access the review system .
All members of academic staff at the University have an allocation within their workload for research and scholarly activity (RSA).
You can book RSA and keep track of your remaining hours.
The University subscribes to Jisc Online Surveys, which supports the creation of online surveys including as part of research projects.
You can create surveys ranging from simple to complex, export responses and create reports.
For access or further information, please contact onlinesurveyaccess@tees.ac.uk
Please note: Student to provide Project ID number of an approved ethics application OR alternatively access request to be submitted by academic supervisor on student's behalf.
e-Vision brings information from the University's student system, SITS, into a single screen.
Guidance is available once you log into the system.
If you are supervising research degree students, you will be given access to e-Vision to record your supervisory meetings.
We use e-Vision to ensure compliance with Tier 4 visa requirements and the University's policies on student supervision.
Contact us for further information

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_funding.cfm:
Oliver has held positions as a senior research fellow at Northumbria and Newcastle universities, and was a senior research, training and development manager at the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) where he oversaw the operations of numerous large funding programmes, including the Rural Economy and Land Use programme, the Sustainable Technologies Programme, the Science in Society programme, and the landmark DfID-ESRC Joint Scheme.
An experienced mixed methods researcher (PhD Human Geography) and evaluator, Oliver has attracted numerous funding awards in his own right, including from the ESRC and British Academy.
He is currently leading a British Academy-funded research project on the research funding ecosystem and researches and writes in diverse areas, from architectural history to renewable energy siting.
more...
With a background in Materials Science, Imtiyaz has a BSc in Chemistry, MSc in Textile Chemistry and PhD in Textile and Polymer Science from the University of Leeds.
He has held several research positions at Russell Group Universities and at the North Carolina State University, USA.
He moved into research management and has held positions at University of Bedfordshire, Kingston University London and lately Coventry University managing EU and RCUK (UKRI) portfolio.
He has been supporting researchers secure research funding from the Research Councils (UKRI), Innovate UK including KTPs, EU and Charity funders under various flagship schemes such as Newton, GCRF, ISCF and MSCA.
We provide tailored support in all aspects of research funding, including:
We help you to maximise your research funding, particularly with respect to the UK Research Councils but also other funders such as the Royal Society, Medical Charities, and The Leverhulme Trust.
We work with funders, schools, institutes, research centres and individuals:
The UK Dual Support System has two streams of research funding:
QR funding from Research England.
Research England awards quality related (QR) block grants to universities to support the development of their research environment.
QR funding is allocated based on the outcomes of the Research Excellence Framework (REF), a periodic UK-wide assessment of the quality of research in universities.
Research project funding from all other funders.
Funding for specific research projects can come from numerous funders, ranging from the Research Councils and other government bodies to charities and industry.
Research project funding must be applied for through research proposals in a competitive process.
Research assistant/associate salaries are awarded as part of a specific project requested from a funder.
Examples of where you might look for funding for your research idea:
There are a wide variety of funders that might be willing to fund your research idea.
Teesside subscribes to Research Professional, which is a large database that covers all research disciplines and funders from the UK and abroad.
You can set up tailored funding searches and opt into the email alerts that summarise main opportunities.
RIS has also developed a funding calendar , which summarises calls that run routinely every year.
Research Professional can be accessed here , but get in touch with RIS if you have any questions.
Speak with your research funding manager and research director about your plans before you start writing for assurance that you are on the right track and for early support.
Before looking at funding opportunities, it is important to think about your research career and what you want to achieve with your research.
Ask yourself:
At different stages of your career, you will probably answer these questions differently.
It is important to keep in mind that there are different types of funding to accommodate your needs.
Apply to calls that fit what you want to do and that fit in with where you are in your research career.
Be realistic with your plan - start with smaller grants to build a track record and ability to demonstrate success in delivering projects.
Most funders ringfence funding for early career researchers.
It is important that you take advantage of your early career status and these schemes.
You compete against other academics in the same career stage, whereas you would be competing against professors and more established academics in the standard routes.
Each funder defines early career slightly differently, so check the funders that are relevant to your discipline.
It might be, for example, that you have eight years from receiving your PhD to submit a fellowship proposal.
This could give you time to build your research profile, establish a track record of publications, and establish a network of partners.
All these factors will help you submit a strong and competitive application.
Responsive: These are open ended calls, or calls with routine deadlines, where the funder has a broad remit and invites quality proposals in their area.
The topic and approach are largely down to you to determine, as long as they fit within the  funders broad remit.
Directed: These calls have a more defined remit, more specific objectives set by the funder and a fixed deadline.
You must make sure that your project fits the call guidance.
If it does not fit the call guidance, the funder will likely reject the proposal outright, regardless of the quality.
Main points to consider if the route is appropriate:
When planning or considering an application for research funding, we encourage you to contact your research centre director and local research funding manager.
Your research centre director will be happy to advise you on everything from relevant opportunities to how to pitch your application in the most effective way.
They will also be able to identify - and potentially confirm - various forms of support, such as institutional studentships in the case of high-profile fellowship applications or financial contributions in the case of equipment purchases.
Your research funding manager will also be happy to advise you on relevant opportunities.
But in addition, they will be able to guide you through the submission process, provide feedback and comments on drafts, and, in some cases, assist you in the preparation of content.
Meanwhile, RIS's team of research funding officers (pre-award) will be happy to assist you in the design, preparation and fine-tuning of your budget.
Members of this team will also be able to assist you in the negotiation of any online system or portal through which your application must pass.
Often, you will be unable to submit your application without the express assistance of these individuals.
The timelines for this work often vary.
For large collaborative research grant applications involving multiple academic partners and other stakeholders, the timelines may (and arguably should) stretch for many months - sometimes even up to a year.
Small research grant applications on the other hand can often be dealt with more quickly.
However, the financial value of an application is not always the best indicator of the timeline.
Sometimes, for example, a funding application of only modest value will entail compliance with a set of terms and conditions that are non-standard or complex.
In all cases contact your research centre director and/or research funding manager at the first possible opportunity.
Fellowship: the main purpose is to buy the researcher out of other duties so they can focus on delivering a research project, largely on their own, for a period of time (often at least 12 months).
Many fellowship schemes encourage reflection on and the further analysis and interpretation of past research.
Project grant: brings together a team of academic researchers, often across disciplines and institutions, to tackle a problem.
Often post-doctoral researchers are employed directly from the grant and investigators dedicate a proportion of time to the project.
Small grants, travel/workshop grants: brings together a team of academic researchers, often across disciplines and institutions, to tackle a problem.
When preparing your application for research funding you may be required to demonstrate your awareness of, or the University's approach to, specific policy issues; for instance, equality, diversity and inclusion; early-career researcher development; research governance and ethics; data protection and management; and intellectual property rights.
Your research funding manager will guide you in these matters, drawing upon the University's own resources and the following sources of information.
UKRI Good research resource hub Good research resource hub - UKRI
University and collaboration agreements University and business collaboration agreements: Lambert Toolkit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
Trusted Research Guidance for Academia Trusted Research Guidance for Academia | CPNI
Trusted Research Guidance for Industry Trusted Research Guidance for Industry | CPNI
UK PACT Guidance on Gender Equality and Social Inclusion Mainstreaming gender and inclusion into climate action (ukpact.co.uk)
Congratulations, you have heard from the funder that your proposal has been successful!
Notify the research funding officer (post-award) in RIS and your Head of Department immediately so that they can help you set up the project.
Every project will have terms and conditions that the University will have to accept as part of the award.
The research funding officer (post-award) will liaise with Legal and Governance Services (LGS) to review these terms.
You, with support from RIS and LGS should make yourself aware of any reporting requirements, publication restrictions (if any), or any other terms that may affect the delivery of the project.
The contract for the project will be signed by the legal signatory after receiving appropriate advice from LGS.
If there are partners involved with the project, RIS and LGS will put a collaboration agreement in place with them to facilitate payments, reporting requirements, and agree arrangements regarding intellectual property.
This agreement has to be in place before the project starts.
With support from RIS, identify any other areas that will need attention before the project starts:
The research funding officer (post-award) can assist with any queries you may have about setting up your project, and any issues you may encounter whilst delivering the work.
Most funders will require you to submit reports on the progress and outcomes of your project, including future plans to develop your work.
There will be fixed deadlines associated with this.
Please familiarise yourself with reporting requirements and timescales at the outset of your project, and consult your head of department, School manager or the research funding officer (post-award) If you have any queries or concerns.
Some funders, including the research councils, require ongoing reporting so that outcomes can be captured for several years after an award ends.
You will be notified by your funder if you are required to provide reporting of this kind.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_careers.cfm:
Career management, developmental needs analysis, and leadership are essential in pursuing a research career.
By clearly being able to identify, articulate and evidence the broad range of behaviours, skills and attributes that underpin excellent, effective and inclusive research, you will be able to take control of your own professional development, as well as support the development of your doctoral researchers, peers, colleagues, and teams.
To support your career progression and the development of research leadership skills, we offer a range of training and development activities and fora, as well as a suite of online tools, resources, and guidance.
The researcher development framework was developed by researchers for researchers and maps out the skills, attributes and behaviours required of an effective researcher.
Everyone's research career is different, so one career pathway might require you to focus and develop one area more than another.
While ethics is essential for all, policy engagement might be particular to your area of work.
It is important to remember that people rarely have identical career paths.
To learn more about the framework and to support you in identifying your developmental needs, Vitae has developed an online tool to get you started.
Intellectual and research leadership isn't just for senior research managers and Professors.
Leadership is important at every stage of a research career and is a skill best developed and honed over time.
Research leadership training and development is embedded across the RIS training and development programme .
At Teesside University we define mentoring as a relationship facilitated and developed through a series of one-to-one meetings to support a mentee's professional development.
Researchers at Teesside can receive mentoring on any element of Vitae's researcher development framework.
Research mentors and mentees receive training and development as well as ongoing support during the mentoring relationship.
If you would like to be matched with a mentor or if you are interested in becoming a mentor yourself, please complete the application on the Learning and Development Portal .
Sometimes it may be more appropriate to find a mentor outside of the University.
This might be because you are looking to develop a particular skill or gain some technical insight into a specialist area.
It may also be because you have identified a role model who you would like to learn from, or because you need an outsider perspective on your development.
External mentoring relationships rely on networking and building trust.
Before you contact your prospective mentor, there are some things you may need to consider first:
Early career researchers (ECRs) are an essential part of Teesside University's research environment.
The Early career researcher forum provides a platform for ECRs to share best practice and feed into discussions on research development at Teesside.
It is open to all ECRs, who are defined broadly as:
The forum is open to all researchers, and reports directly to the Research and Innovation Committee.
The terms of reference can be located here .
The forum seeks to:
The forum takes place four times each year; the dates are listed on our events calendar.
If you are interested in developing your own community of practice, some of the resources listed may be of interest:
Teesside University provides a suite of developmental programmes for researchers at all stages of their career.
All our activities support the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and are aligned to Vitae's Researcher Development Framework .
Visit our Research and Innovation Training page to find out more and to book.
Research and Innovation Training

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_culture.cfm:
Research culture is broadly defined by the Royal Society as the behaviours, values, expectations, attitudes and norms of our research communities.
It influences researchers' career paths and determines the way that research is conducted and communicated.
Teesside University is committed to fostering a research culture and environment in which you can thrive as a researcher.
To create a positive research culture that values the contributions of all those working within the research ecosystem, we participate in and adhere to a range of national programmes, charters, concordats, and awards.
The Research Culture and People Sub-Committee (RCPSC) leads our work to plan, pilot, and implement initiatives in support of a positive research culture, as captured in our research culture action plan.
Through our action plan, we will:
Research concordats, agreements, and other initiatives are part of the UK and international landscape of practices that influence research cultures and environments.
These initiatives have grown organically, in response to challenges and opportunities, and cover a range of issues to support researchers and their activities.
Together, these initiatives create obligations for researchers and their institutions, and other stakeholders, such as research funders.
The University adheres to and implements these initiatives through our policies, processes, action plans and commitments.
The list of concordats and agreements grows in response to new challenges and ambitions of the research sector, and includes the following:
The University participates in the European Commission's HR in Excellence in Research Award, which is assessed every three years through self-assessment.
The award is given to organisations which can demonstrate a robust and public implementation strategy of improving the career development of researchers, as described by the Researcher Development Concordat .
The University was first awarded HR Excellence in Research in 2013.
Our award is led by the Research Culture and People Sub-Committee working closely with the ECR Forum .
Both groups report directly to Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee .
Our 2023-2026 action plan has been developed from our five research culture aims.
The UK process for achieving the HR Excellence in Research Award is managed by Vitae.
More information about the award
The University is a signatory to the Researcher Development Concordat .
The annual report below outlines our progress and plans mapped to the Concordat obligations.
The University fulfils these obligations through our research culture action plan .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_impact.cfm:
Communication, engagement, exchange, and enterprise skills underpin many research endeavours, whether this be public engagement, negotiating with businesses, engaging local communities, or working with policymakers and charities.
At Teesside University, as a researcher you have access to a range of tools, resources and support to help you communicate effectively to non-specialists, network with business and industry, collaborators, and identify opportunities for research engagement and enterprise.
With significant expertise in knowledge brokerage and research engagement, Teesside University offers you the encouragement and support to engage stakeholders and develop deep and meaningful partnerships.
Our comprehensive training programme provides support across the impact lifecycle, from research design to impact evaluation and legacy planning.
Research impact is defined by Research England as a demonstrable 'effect on, change or benefit to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment or quality of life, beyond academia' (REF2021).
Research impact arises from a combination of sound research and a collaborative and engaged approach.
Impact is best realised when research and research data are made open and accessible, when partnerships are equitable and sustainable, and when research questions and methods are adapted and modified to incorporate the views and expertise of stakeholders and beneficiaries.
While engagement isn't a prerequisite for research, it helps situate your research within the bigger picture.
Being able to communicate clearly and concisely to specialists and non-specialists audiences is an important research skill.
Given the significant rise in the number of research publications over the last few decades, it is increasingly important to ensure that your research is discoverable and that the originality, rigour, and significance of your work is evident to the reader from the outset.
The growth in interdisciplinary research (and research audiences) also means that as a researcher you need to be able to communicate to researchers both within and outside your discipline.
Communicating the originality, significance and rigour of your research is important no matter what type of research communication you are undertaking.
For the purposes of the Research Excellence Framework, the definitions below are used:
For more information on these definitions and more nuanced disciplinary perspectives, go to paragraph 287 onwards of the REF2021 Panel Criteria and Working Methods .
The National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) describes public engagement as: The myriad of ways in which the activity and benefits of higher education and research can be shared with the public.
At Teesside University, engaging the public with research forms part of our institutional mission and is embedded with our Engagement Strategy and Charter for Social Impact.
Public engagement and citizen science are seen as core components of Responsible Research and Innovation.
They encourage a democratic approach to research design and practice and ensure public trust and investment in research and development.
Civic engagement with research focuses specifically on how to engage regional communities, organisations, and policymakers.
Teesside University works with organisations across the organisation to ensure our research tackles region specific issues and inclusive regional development.
Informing policy and practice involves engaging with a range of stakeholders and can be undertaken at local, national or international levels.
It could involve actors from parliament, schools, charities, or international organisations.
The focus could be on culture, energy, or social housing, to name just a few.
Achieving impact in this space can be difficult and the process challenging, often dependent on the political climate, available resource, and institutional and regional capabilities.
As such, a thoughtful and strategic approach is required that involves, directly or indirectly, key influences, decision makers, and beneficiaries.
Whether through consultancy, contract research, research commercialisation, or start up initiatives, business creation and business engagement offers fruitful and exciting pathways to research impact.
Enterprise and business engagement require an innovative and entrepreneurial mind-set and a good understanding of business practices, relationship management, and opportunity recognition.
The Department for Academic Enterprise offers bespoke and tailored support to researchers looking to engage business with research and innovation.
In addition, our resource base provides you with a comprehensive introduction to business essentials, intellectual property, and knowledge exchange for researchers.
Evaluating and measuring the effect of engagement and enterprise activities and interventions throughout the research project lifecycle is crucial to delivering research impact.
For both the UK Research Excellence Framework and the Knowledge Exchange Framework, quantitative and qualitative evidence is needed to demonstrate the change that has resulted from the research.
There is no single approach or tool for conducting impact evaluations, though a case study approach has been adopted for the Research Excellence Framework.
The approach taken, though, depends on what you want to achieve and the type of evidence you think you might need.
It is recommended you consider the best approach at the outset of the project.
We offer sessions as part of the ENRICH programme on impact and engagement.
More about our training offer .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_ethics.cfm:
Research ethics and research integrity activity is co-ordinated by Research & Enterprise Office and the University Research Ethics and Integrity sub-Committee (UREISC).
Research governance functions within RIS are overseen by the secretary to UREISC and, who in tandem with Chair of UREISC, is responsible for leading the University's work in research ethics and integrity assurance.
The University upholds an ethos of personal and professional responsibility by which individual researchers and, in the case of students, their supervisors, maintain autonomy for the research undertaken.
However, the University has a set of principles for the ethical conduct of research which must be adhered to by all researchers at the University and that form the basis for ethics review by research ethics committees, as well as a Framework and Code of Practice for Ensuring Research Integrity .
All documents are available from these webpages.
We offer expert-led training opportunities for all staff and students in both ethics and integrity of research.
The Basics of Research Ethics and Advanced Research Ethics courses offer researchers an introductory and more in-depth exploration of the issues set out in the University's Principles for Research Ethics.
Research Standards and Values covers the main areas of research integrity, based on international standards for good research practice.
Supervisors must meet the University's requirements for appropriate supervision training.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_research.cfm:
The expectation for supervisors of research degree students is that a research degree candidate shall have at least two, and normally not more than three, supervisors.
One supervisor is named the Director of Studies (the first supervisor) with responsibility to supervise the candidate on a regular and frequent basis in accordance with the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research.
Normally a Director of Studies should not be responsible for supervising more than six students as Director of Studies at any one time, and be internal to the University.
The Director of Studies must have specific expertise in the student's field of study and/or the theoretical approaches to be applied.
The second/third supervisor(s) may be internal or external to the University and may be appointed on the basis of specific expertise to the field of study or to provide expertise for the successful completion of the study
A supervision team shall normally have had a combined experience of supervising not fewer than two candidates to successful completion.
Responsibilities include:
The responsibilities of the second supervisor(s) and any advisers are to be worked out in consultation with the Director of Studies and the student.
The detailed arrangements of supervision will differ from discipline to discipline, and even within disciplines, but in general it is considered good practice to keep a written record of expectations and of supervisory session outcomes.
Research supervisors must undertake some basic training for the supervision of research degree students that familiarise staff with contextual and practical issues related to supervision at this level.
Training also focuses on Teesside University specific information, so is relevant for staff who have supervised at other institutions taking up a post at Teesside.
The course provides basic training in the knowledge and skills needed by new supervisors of postgraduate research.
It aims to meet the demands of the QAA Quality Code and the policy of the Teesside University with an emphasis on understanding of the programme on which research students are registered at Teesside, and practical supervisor skills.
The course is be divided into a number sessions based on the role and responsibilities of the supervisor of doctoral candidates; good doctoral project management; and practical supervision skills.
The aim of this course is to provide University staff and postdoctoral researchers with the opportunity to begin to reflect upon and evaluate the policy, practice, and support entailed in the supervision of candidates for higher degrees.
On successful completion of this course, the supervisor will be able to:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_ref_kef.cfm:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is a periodic assessment of research quality in the UK.
REF gives accountability for public investment in research, provides benchmarking information and informs the annual allocation of quality-related (QR) funding to higher education institutions (HEIs).
The outcomes of REF 2021 (the most recent assessment) were published in April 2022.
REF assesses:
In line with our institutional strategy to support our research environment and develop our research centres , the number of staff submitted by the University to REF has increased almost threefold, from 94 (87.4 FTE) in REF 2014 to 251 (240.1 FTE) in REF 2021.
We submitted to five units of assessment (UoAs) in REF 2021:
Our Code of Practice sets out the processes we used to prepare our submission to REF 2021, specifically: how staff with significant responsibility for research were identified; how research independence was determined; and how outputs were selected for submission.
For REF 2021, every member of staff was, as standard, submitted with between one and five outputs.
The University recognises that there are many reasons why research outputs are produced at different rates.
These can include disciplinary norms, a staff member’s career stage, and the balance of their commitments across the institution’s portfolio of learning and teaching, engagement and research activities.
The University’s academic careers framework and policy makes clear that applicants cannot identify which of their outputs were submitted to REF 2021.
Similarly, the selection of outputs for submission to REF 2021 is not considered as part of research evaluation processes within the University.
We are a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment , which promotes responsible research evaluation.
This is reflected in our policy on the responsible Policy on the use of Quantitative Indicators in Research .
For further information, please email ref@tees.ac.uk or consult the REF website .
More about our REF 2021 outcomes
The Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) is a national indicator of the work carried out by Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) with external partners to support the economy and society.
KEF is based on a range of metrics and narrative statements on institutional strategies, activities and their impact.
The results of the latest KEF were released in October 2024.
Find out more about KEF, including dashboards to compare the outcomes of the fourth exercise for all participating institutions .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_training.cfm:
ENRICH is a hub of support for staff and postgraduate researchers, bringing together learning and development opportunities across enterprise, networking, research, innovation, and culture.
ENRICH transforms our approach to researcher development at Teesside, aiming to harmonise and amplify the varied range of staff and student development provided by the Research and Enterprise Office (REO) in collaboration with academics and other specialists from within and beyond the University.
Within ENRICH, our diverse learning and development programme will allow you to expand your knowledge and understanding in a wide range of topics, from funding strategies to media training and project management.
The programme takes a blended approach to learning, including e-learning, webinars, workshops, and seminars.
You will be provided with a lively and supportive learning environment that encourages you to reflect on your experiences and to develop new approaches, skills, and behaviours.
Whether you are just thinking about becoming research active, you are a research leader, or somewhere in between, we encourage you to browse the development opportunities using the links below.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/research/support_sabbaticals.cfm:
The University supports an annual programme of research sabbaticals.
These are an opportunity for academic staff to:
The sabbaticals programme for 2025 is now closed.
Details of next year's scheme will be announced in due course.
How to apply, funding information, and application tips.
It all starts here.
Read about transformative sabbaticals and be inspired to apply.
Ready for the opportunity for your sabbatical journey?
Complete your application now.
Missed our Sabbatical Panel Event?
Watch the recorded session for valuable and inspiring insights from experienced assessors and successful applicants.
Discover best practices, tips, and real stories to guide your own sabbatical journey.
Whether you're considering a research sabbatical or just want a recap, this recording is your go-to resource for valuable advice and inspiration.
The recording is restricted to Teesside University staff.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/international/isb2023.cfm:
The International Student Barometer Survey is an annual survey conducted by i-graduate.
The International Student Barometer Survey specifically provides universities with an understanding of the motivations, expectations and experience of international students studying at participating institutions all over the world.
At Teesside University, we use the Survey to gain insights into the experience we offer to our international students, to identify the things we are doing well and to understand where we need to make improvements.
In the recent autumn 2023 autumn wave, a total of 1,682 responses were received for Teesside University, resulting in a 28% response rate.
A total of 122,975 students took part globally, giving feedback on their respective institutions.
Below is a selection of the results received about Teesside University based on feedback from our students.
*Not all students answer all questions.
Percentage reflects number of students who responded with either satisfied or very satisfied to the specific question in the survey.
In total, 1,820 Teesside University international students participated in the ISB.
More info at https://etioglobal.org/performance-benchmarking/international-student-barometer
*Based on the views of 37,803 students within a global survey response of 128,975 students.
More info at: https://etioglobal.org/performance-benchmarking/international-student-barometer

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/schools/mima:
Industry connected and employment focused for the creative industries.
Gain an exceptional experience working with our local, national and international networks developing skills, knowledge and resilience, building foundations for careers in art, design, journalism, film and TV production, music, performing arts and media.
Our School of Arts & Creative Industries is uniquely placed to support the journey of creatives at all stages in their careers.
More about us
See what it's like to study at our School of Arts & Creative Industries.
We're lucky to have our very own art gallery, MIMA (Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art).
Using the gallery as a platform, cultural hub and creative resource, our programmes develop and support you to become a unique, industry-ready talent.
We offer an exciting and distinctive range of hands-on media and communications courses designed to help you expand your critical thinking and creativity.
Studying this subject opens up a number of career pathways, from professional sound to acoustics and audio software development.
Undergraduate courses
Today's production industries demand highly trained, professional practitioners who can demonstrate a clear understanding of contemporary creative performance and production techniques.
Our creative professional apprenticeships are unique to Teesside University.
Developed and delivered in partnership with key stakeholders from the creative industries, our programmes offer dynamic, exciting, and rewarding careers, while contributing to the growth, as well as the social and cultural success of our local and national economies.
Arts Therapist (Degree Apprenticeship) Curator (Degree Apprenticeship)
We support students who are working on a wide range of topics from community engagement through to performance art, drawing or printmaking.
More about Phds
View this year's degree showcase brochure featuring the work of our undergraduate and postgraduate students graduating in 2024.
Find out more about the event View the brochure
Our quarterly magazine - get the latest on all things happening at our School of Arts & Creative Industries
Download issue 4 Download issue 3 Download issue 2 Download issue 1
Undergraduate showcase 2020
You learn through doing, in creative thinking spaces that simulate studio practice - from newsrooms, radio and TV stations to wood, metal and 3D printing workshops, paper, fabric and sewing rooms.
Our team of creative practitioners support, coach and challenge you to find and grow your creative voice, your interests and ways of working.
You focus on your specialist area and graduate with a professional portfolio articulating your distinctive voice.
Collaborate with your peers to gain new perspectives on developing your voice and practice.
Build your toolkit and personal resilience to thrive in the creative industries, from testing ideas and creative directions to understanding pitching etiquette and developing large-scale projects.
You develop a creative drawing and writing journal, capturing your challenges, milestones and reflections to see patterns in your thinking and linking reoccurring ideas.
Access our network of alumni and practicing creatives at Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art (MIMA).
Benefit from supportive voices, specialist expertise, shared wisdom, new ideas, a helping hand or a friendly catch-up, establishing critical relationships that propel you into your creative career.
Take part in monthly creative gatherings or individual personal reflection - we're a unique community working together to make a place for everyone.
Our career-focused modules help you understand your chosen field - how it works, how to access it, who shapes it and how to grow within in it.
From industry leaders' professional wisdom and insight, to accessing professional opportunities and creative coaching, you become an industry insider and leave with a working understanding of the professional community.
Our courses and campus are powered by Adobe and Apple - we're Europe's first Adobe Creative Campus and the only Apple accredited university, equipping you with the digital tools and resources to transform the creative world.
Even if it's the handmade, craft-based aspects of creative production that you love, you gain strong digital capabilities to fly through MIMA Creative Week once a term.
Become a creative international citizen by understanding wider global contexts, sustainability and the changing shape of equality and diversity.
You draw on your classmates' and colleagues' diversity though professional collaborations, field trips, learning materials, fellowships and residencies, to generate distinctive perspectives in a respectful manner.
Workshop, studio, gallery and classroom-based learning allows you to explore and experiment in your chosen creative subjects.
You work with skilled technicians to help you create and innovate, and have open access to all workshops to develop your personally defined project themes.
More about our facilities
Our academic team has a wealth of teaching experience and specialist knowledge, are active internationally across research and industry, and all contribute to our collaborative and interdisciplinary ethos.
You develop the skills, knowledge, resilience and networks to sustain a life of creative practice.
Our students go on to work in a range of fields - they are digitally able, financially savvy and know how to make things happen in the world.
More about your career
Creative Academy uses art and design to innovate businesses, support individuals to be more creative, and develop young minds through our summer schools.
More about Creative Academy
All staff profiles
Matthew joined Teesside University in 2018 as Head of Department for Psychology.
He is a cognitive psychologist with a background researching spatial and linguistic representations in dialogue.
Jonathon joined Teesside University as a principal lecturer for psychology and is currently Associate Dean (International).
He has published a number of journal articles covering research into the cognitive and physiological effects of food supplements and recreational drugs, and barriers to cancer screening.
Clare is responsible for overseeing all aspects of learning and teaching within the School, including ensuring delivery of a high-quality student experience, curriculum development and quality assurance.
Jane is responsible for undergraduate and postgraduate student recruitment, marketing and communications, as well as portfolio development.
She is a chartered marketeer with over 20 years’ experience in the education sector, winning numerous awards for campaigns, creative direction, brand and student recruitment.
Jane spent ten years in marketing, PR and communications working in professional sport, and running her own businesses.
She is an active board member of the Association of Colleges, Hartlepool FE College and the Power of Women as well as being on several marketing advisory boards.
Victoria's academic background is in rural issues, with her PhD focusing on experiences of living, working and visiting Hadrian's Wall World Heritage Site.
Her research interests are varied, including qualitative and visual research methods, volunteering, the sociology of tourism, heritage, and space and place.
Emma is responsible for supporting the Dean in the leadership and management of the school with particular emphasis on strategy, resource management and performance.
Jill is responsible for supporting the Dean in the management of academic and student activities through the student journey, and supporting the academic quality assurance of the student learning experience.
Mon
Know Your Numbers!
12.00am - 12.00am
Occupational Health Office, Foster Building
World Suicide Prevention Day
Student Life Building
Talking Therapy and Mental Health recruitment event
9.30am - 12.00pm
Centuria Building On campus

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/schools/scedt:
Through education enriched by research, innovation, and engagement with business and the professions, we develop the next generation of problem solvers, innovators and leaders that employers and society need.
We have a long-established track-record of delivering high-quality education, research and consultancy in the fields of computing, engineering and digital technologies.
Our School enjoys an excellent reputation for innovation and our teaching staff combine academic excellence, world class research and industrial experience.
Many of our staff are leading experts and practitioners in their fields.
We offer a broad range of innovative and industry-relevant courses from pre-degree through to PhD level study.
Please explore our website to learn more and get in touch if you have any questions.
Professor Chrisina Jayne Dean, School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies
Teesside University enjoys a long-standing reputation in the fields of animation and visual effects.
Our courses cover all aspects of games development, ranging from the highly creative area of concept art to the technical discipline of games programming.
Our computing courses prepare you for a career in a range of industries - from heavy industry to business.
The North East of England hosts major international automotive, aerospace, engineering design, manufacturing and civil engineering industries, as well as a growing number of companies involved in renewable energy.
(Top 50 International Animation Colleges - formal degree.
195 colleges considered.
Find out more at tees.ac.uk/source )
We work closely with employers from a wide range of sectors, with many involved in designing and delivering our curriculum to ensure our courses are relevant to industry and meet the needs of employers.
Benefit from our high-quality, industry-standard software, equipment and facilities.
Engineering laboratories include designated areas for aerospace engineering, civil engineering and the built environment, computer-aided design and manufacture, power plants, control systems and automation, electrical engineering and telecommunications.
We also have specialist pilot plant facilities for chemical and mechanical engineering.
For computing and digital technologies we have more than 30 networked computing studios across many platforms (Windows, Linux, iOS and Android), equipped to industry standard for hardware and software.
Dedicated facilities are provided for animation, computer science, creative games and games programming, digital media and web, mobile development, networks, video editing and digital pre/post-production.
Animex - our International Festival of Animation and Computer Games - is your chance to meet industry experts, discuss the state-of-the-art, see behind the scenes of the biggest hits, and to have a great time at one of the premier games and animation events anywhere in the world.
ExpoTees is our annual exposition of final year student work celebrating the next generation of expertise in animation, games, computing, journalism, film and the arts.
Attendees include leading industry figures seeking to recruit bright new talent to their organisations.
Our teaching staff combine academic excellence, world class research and industrial experience.
Providing industry input into the course, live industry briefs, guest speakers, student placements and graduate internships.
More about our strategic partnerships
Professor Chrisina Jayne is Dean of the School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies.
Chrisina's recent research relates to developing and applying novel methods for artificial neural networks, machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Dr Dimitri Nicolaou is responsible for undergraduate and postgraduate student recruitment, including degree apprentices, portfolio development and academic partnerships.
Michael is responsible for the school’s student experience, quality assurance and curriculum development.
He is an electrical engineer by background and is a senior fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a chartered engineer.
David is a professor of low carbon materials and associate dean for research and innovation.
David is the chair of the national IOM3 Polymer Group and coordinates the University Circular Economy and Recycling Innovation Centre (CERIC).
As School Registrar, Caroline's responsibilities include: monitoring and reporting on academic quality matters; the implementation and evaluation of management information associated with the student lifecycle.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/schools/shls:
Through a range of professionally-accredited, research-informed courses, we develop graduates who are knowledgeable, innovative, and highly skilled.
We have a long established record of delivering high quality learning and teaching, research, and enterprise activity in health, sport and the sciences, from our Middlesbrough and Darlington campuses, and the world-leading National Horizons Centre.
We are an important engine for change, challenge and creativity, with an excellent reputation for collaboration.
Partners include the NHS, voluntary and private businesses.
Our portfolio ranges from certificate to PhD level study with many programmes accredited by professional and statutory bodies, and we support our partners to develop their staff throughout their career journeys.
Our high-quality clinical, sport and scientific learning spaces, combined with our adventurous approach to digital tools and simulation, prepare you for clinical practice experience or graduate employment.
Dr Ann French Dean, School of Health & Life Sciences
Service user and carer involvement
Undergraduate courses Postgraduate courses Short courses Service user and carer involvement
Undergraduate courses Postgraduate courses Short courses
Our courses incorporate academic and practical elements, that can be within our clinical laboratories, clinical simulation classrooms which help you prepare for your practice experience either as part of the course you have applied for or in preparation for employment.
Teaching staff incorporate both the practical elements of the course and the research underpinning the specific subjects.
Our specialist clinical skills classroom  include operating theatre; ambulance; nursing/midwifery simulating classroom; dental clinic with patient referrals; optometry clinic with patient referrals; physiotherapy classrooms; diagnostic radiography centre with anonymised patient images; occupational therapy; sports therapy clinic; science laboratories, and a crime scene house.
We have a track record of student employability with 98% of our health students gaining employment within the first six months of qualification, and strong links with Middlesbrough Football club and other sporting clubs within the region, pharmaceutical, biotechnological, chemical and food processing companies.
Professional and statutory accreditation for all relevant courses means you are well placed to seek employment in the relevant public service or private business.
We have long  established links with all our local/regional NHS providers which means as a graduate you meet the workforce requirements.
Our courses have been developed and delivered by industry professionals and practitioners.
Dr Ann French is responsible for the School's overall strategic development.
She was previously the Associate Dean for Marketing and Recruitment.
Ann is a Registered General Nurse with a background in palliative and end of life care.
She completed a PhD in Palliative Care at the International Observatory on End of Life Care at Lancaster University.
Ruth oversees Continuing Professional Development within the School, including commissioned courses, apprenticeships, accredited and non-accredited short courses, and masterclasses.
Ruth works closely with partners, including NHS and private healthcare organisations, to address and meet their workforce development needs.
Ruth is a Registered Nurse and has held roles including Senior Lecturer, Principal Lecturer in Leadership and Quality Improvement, and Head of Department for the Allied Health Professions.
Scott leads the School’s marketing and student recruitment efforts.
As a Registered Nurse and experienced academic, he’s held various roles, including Senior Lecturer, Principal Lecturer in Marketing and Student Recruitment, and Head of Department for Nursing & Midwifery.
Committed to lifelong learning, he’s currently pursuing a Professional Doctorate.
Kevin is responsible for the development of international education opportunities for the School's health, social care, and science-related programmes.
By profession, he is a chartered building surveyor who worked in both public and private practice prior to entering academia in 1992.
Carlie is a registered mental health nurse with a background in forensics, acute and primary and secondary services.
She has held many senior management roles within the NHS and has extensive knowledge and experience in commissioning.
Carlie gained an MSc in Transformational Leadership at Teesside University, and has led on a range of regional and national large-scale change and transformation projects.
Professor Jeff Breckon is responsible for research and innovation across the School and its networks internally and externally.
Jeff is a British Psychological Society and Health and Care Professions Council chartered psychologist with experience in the design and delivery of behaviour change interventions across a range of health, community and workplace settings.
Vikki leads the NHC's development as a centre of excellence for the biosciences and healthcare sectors, working with industry, the NHS and other stakeholders to ensure provision is driven by current/planned needs for research, innovation, skills and talent.
An internationally recognised researcher, she has developed a programme of research across genomics, bioinformatics and digital health with national and international networks.
Ptolemy oversees the delivery and development of our nursing and midwifery provision within the School.
He has a clinical background in acute and emergency care and is an experienced academic, previously holding roles including Senior Lecturer and Principal Lecturer for Staffing and Resources.
He is dedicated to advancing academic excellence and healthcare education and is currently undertaking a PhD exploring how healthcare students cope with stress.
Jill is a qualified physiotherapist with extensive experience in various healthcare settings, including the NHS and private practice.
She has a diverse clinical and academic background, and significant expertise in practice-based learning, having led local and national initiatives to expand placement opportunities across the allied health professions.
Jill is deeply committed to fostering inclusive, contemporary curricula, ensuring the development of future-ready healthcare professionals.
Jibin leads the life science provision within the School.
As a Chartered Scientist in Food Science, Jibin is dedicated to leading the department to deliver world-class education and research in diverse subjects including bioscience, food and nutrition, sport science, forensic science, environmental science, and health and medicine-related sciences.
A specific focus is working with industries and communities to apply our knowledge and skills in practice, and deliver impactful solutions to society.
As School Registrar, Helen's responsibilities include monitoring and reporting on academic quality matters, and the implementation/evaluation of management information linked with the student lifecycle.
As School Manager, Linda is responsible for supporting the Dean in the leadership and management of the school with particular emphasis on strategy, resource management and performance.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/schools/ssshl:
The School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law provides excellence in teaching and research in a diverse range of areas including criminology, education, law, policing and investigation, psychology, social work and sociology.
We have a long-established record of delivering high-quality learning and teaching, research, consultancy and enterprise activity across the social sciences, humanities and law.
Our teaching staff combine academic excellence, innovation, world-class research and professional practitioner experience.
Our academic programmes deliver a clear pathway between the social sciences and the public professions across all portfolios.
Our graduates are the next generation of frontline workers.
Through our teaching, enterprise and research, we are developing innovations that improve local services and enhance lives.
We are researching for the real world through funded and partnership work that improves society.
Dr Matt Watson Dean, School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law
Undergraduate Postgraduate
At Teesside University Law School we have over 30 years' experience of delivering high-quality education in the field of law and criminal justice.
Offering free legal advice, guidance and representation to the public.
Our law students provide this service as part of their Law LLB (Hons) degree.
Providing the Tees Valley with informed and resilient trainees, equipped with the knowledge and skills to forge successful teaching careers within the early career framework.
The Impact Lab connects your organisation with our skilled students to collaborate on impactful projects.
Lee has worked at Teesside since 2018 following a career in educational research and testing.
He joined the department as a senior lecturer in research methods and statistics, and became Head of Department in 2022.
His PhD is in evolutionary psychology, but his research interests still include work focused on education, assessment and social mobility.
Sam joined Teesside in 2022, initially concentrating on the teacher training provision that runs across our college partners.
From 2023, she has overseen the establishment of a new suite of teacher training courses in primary and secondary education leading to Qualified Teacher Status.
Angela has been lecturing in law at Teesside since 2003.
Her research interests have been influenced by teaching criminal evidence and human rights, developing a particular passion for the right to a fair trial and the exercise of police powers.
Doctorate in Clinical Psychology open event
1.00pm - 3.00pm
The Curve

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/schools/tubs:
Teesside University Business School
An industry-facing Business School producing the brightest talent and ideas to drive innovation, delivering economic and social impact on a local to global scale.
We design our courses with the help of both students and employers to blend theory with practice.
We aim to accelerate the world's transition to a sustainable, responsible and globally connected community by producing leaders and equipping organisations with the core knowledge, skills, innovation and values to achieve positive commercial, environmental, economic and societal impact.
Whether turning promises on climate change into action, connecting the world to opportunities in the digital revolution or understanding the changing nature of work, the workforce and workplace, the Business School brings together public, private and voluntary organisations to provide creative solutions to tackling key global challenges.
Our students are supported by subject experts to deliver high quality consultancy projects to your organisation.
Teesside Marketing Clinic offers tailored consultancy services to small businesses, social enterprises, sole traders and start-ups in the Tees Valley - free of charge.
We have built an impressive reputation working with leading employers such as Middlesbrough Football Club, PD Ports, Greggs, Iceland, Nifco and amec.
Our alumni have gone on to achieve high level positions at organisations such as The Bank of New York, Goldman Sachs and Delta Airlines.
Andrew is responsible for the overall strategic development of the School.
He was previously Associate Dean (Learning & Teaching) in the School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies.
Andrew is also a Higher Education Academy Senior Teaching Fellow and University Associate Teaching Fellow.
He has a keen interest in supporting student learning through digital technology and artificial intelligence using data driven approaches.
Dominic is responsible for leading the Business School’s international portfolio, contributing to its strategic direction and mission, and developing international partnerships and collaborations.
His professional experience includes many years as a digital producer across the creative media industry, specialising in film, television and broadcast radio.
Recently, Dominic’s research areas include digital transformation and exploring the impact of new technology on global industries.
During Bev’s time at the Business School, she has held the positions of senior lecturer, principal lecturer and head of department.
In her current role, Bev oversees the School's marketing and student recruitment strategy.
She is particularly passionate about aviation and tourism, and how the sector constantly evolves to accommodate the needs of customers and countries.
Jackie oversees the development of high-quality academic programmes in the Business School, drawing on extensive experience in management, leadership and curriculum design across education and the private sector.
Passionate about inclusive, dynamic learning, she collaborates with faculty to drive student success and academic excellence.
Jackie advocates for research-led teaching and innovative technology integration to enhance student experience.
Charlotte is responsible for developing partnerships and collaborative projects.
She has worked in a variety of strategic roles, including organisations such as Middlesbrough Council and Manchester International Festival, and is passionate about entrepreneurship, culture and the creative industries.
She has successfully developed collaborative bids in partnership with industry, most recently leading a £5million bid to the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport with a number of organisations.
Richard joined Teesside University International Business School in 2018, bringing to the role a wealth of experience from previous roles in the education sector.
As a member of the senior executive team he is responsible for monitoring the budget for income and expenditure, as well as managing resources such as staffing and facilities.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/bcip:
The Business Change, Improvement and Projects (BCIP) Department delivers a step change in University activities and performance, resulting in changes to one or more of the University's structure,  infrastructure, systems, culture and processes.
BCIP coordinates key projects through a structured Project Management Framework (PMF), partnering with University departments to enhance project delivery, and user support for achieving strategic objectives.
With the integration of Central Systems Development into BCIP, the department will drive major system developments and continuous improvement initiatives to support the University's corporate strategy.
Key responsibilities include:
The team work closely with Project Sponsors, Leads, Managers and Key Stakeholders through each stage of the University's Project Management Framework, from initial concept, to detailed design, delivery, reporting and evaluation.
The programme is directly linked to delivering the University's five Corporate Aims and covers five key themes:

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/campusservices:
Campus Services provide a range of essential services, which contribute to university life for students, staff and visitors.
We are responsible for providing a safe, secure and comfortable environment, and work hard to provide the best possible service to everyone in the Teesside University community.
Campus Services - staff pages
If you have any issues with the building in which you work or study, please let us know immediately, so we can deal with it as effectively as possible.
Calls will be dealt with in line with their urgency, with emergency jobs dealt with within two hours.
Darren Vipond Director T: 01642 342090
Jill Thompson Deputy Director T: 01642 738586
Dawn Culley Head of Catering Services T: 01642 342096
Lois Speakman Head of Security and Safety
Matt Leng Head of Learning Environment T: 01642 738997
Andy Maclaren Head of Estates Operations T: 01642 342077
Mandy Spurrell Accommodation and Business Manager T: 01642 342023

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/hr:
Our Human Resources department provides a friendly and professional service to the University and its staff.
At Teesside University, we recognise that our people are key to the successful delivery of our Corporate Strategy 'Teesside 2027'.
We are committed to providing support to all members of our diverse University community and are proud to have been awarded Investors in People Gold for the third time recognising the investment we make in our staff.
On these pages you will find details of all our current vacancies, how we support our staff to have a positive work life balance as well as the range of benefits available to University employees, all good reasons to join Team Teesside.
You can call in to see us at the Printworks , or contact us on 01642 342201 .

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/itservices:
Providing staff and students with up-to-date IT support.
MyLogin is designed to help you to amend your University password or to recover your password if you have forgotton it.
Advice on how to connect to the University Wi-Fi (Eduroam).
Find out how to connect to your student email.
Find out how to get the most out of the University printers.
Check out various online forms.
Teesside University is offering students and staff the opportunity to learn new skills and enhance your digital knowledge.
Useful guides to help you with University software and systems.
Find out how to contact IT & Digital Services.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/legal:
The Legal & Governance Services department safeguards the University's ability to fulfil its external accountabilities, legal obligations and regulatory requirements, as well as maintaining the University's Corporate Governance Framework.
Student regulations Staff regulations
The Department falls within the Chief Operating Officer's portfolio and provides professional services, advice, support and guidance to the University community on legal regulatory and compliance, matters and contributes to the Resources, Business and Management Strategy of the COO and the Universityâ€™s corporate plan.
Helen Cutting Executive Director of Legal and Governance Services and University Secretary
Gary Singh Deputy Director of Legal and Governance Services
Victoria Dixon Deputy Director (Solicitor)
Kelly Dunn Deputy Director (Solicitor)

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/procurement:
It seeks to further grow student numbers in addition to building upon our renowned reputation for working with business in order to increase our income streams and research activity.
We recognise that the Higher Education market is becoming much more competitive with much greater emphasis on student choice and that we need the staff, processes and systems to enable us to change and continually improve our performance to meet these evolving needs.
We recognise that our Procurement strategy is a key enabler in helping us to fulfil our Teesside 2027 ambitions and that the implementation of our Procurement Policy and procurement activities that will ensue from our Procurement Strategy will enable us to achieve competitive advantage through making best use of available resources in addition to helping us achieve wider social objectives e.g.
carbon reduction, ethical sourcing and support for local industry.
If you are interested in learning more about what opportunities Teesside University have in place currently and for the future please visit our e-Procurement portal where all relevant opportunities are advertised.
e-Procurement portal
To do this you will need to understand the framework/consortia approach to procurement.
Visit the NEUPC website where it details how to become a supplier & bid for work with universities and UKUPC consortia.
NEUPC website

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/registry:
Student Learning & Academic Registry serves as a catalyst for transformation of learning and teaching across the University.
Student Success work alongside academic and other professional services teams to support and reassure students throughout all aspects of their student journey from pre-arrival through to graduation.
Academic Registry has key responsibilities and provides high quality professional support to the University and it's academic partners to deliver excellence in the learning and teaching experience that enables its students to achieve positive outcomes.
This is driven through maintaining robust and effective academic standards, academic governance, quality assurance policy and academic regulations.
The Centre for Learning and Teaching Innovation and Enhancement (CeLTIE) is Teesside University's hub for seeking inspiration and support around teaching, course design, AI, assessments and helping you and your students succeed, whatever the modality of study.
CeLTIE coordinates learning and teaching projects and provides a wide range of training and professional development in relation to learning and teaching with opportunities for colleagues to gain professional recognition.
Our Apprenticeship Academic Delivery team is dedicated to providing an innovative, learner-centred approach that places apprentices at the core of the learning process.
By tailoring each apprentice's experience through individualised training plans, we ensure their prior knowledge and experience are recognised, building a clear pathway to their educational and professional goals.
Using progress reviews, skill scans, and scaffolded learning aligned with Skills, Knowledge, and Behaviours (KSBs), we support apprentices in reaching their full potential.
Teesside University hosts a number of Learning and Teaching events including the annual Future Facing Learning Conference.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/srm:
The Department of Student Recruitment, Marketing & Communications (SRMC) provide a range of professional services to support the delivery of the University's student recruitment targets.
We also support business engagement and enterprise, research and innovation, and learning and teaching with their key objectives.
We ensure that all communications with our external audiences are professional, consistent and reflect the dynamic and innovative profile of Teesside University.
We are responsible for a broad portfolio of activities including:
David Hudson Director
Chris Walker Deputy Director (Marketing  & Brand)
Abbie English Deputy Director (Student Recruitment  & Admissions)
Janice Dodsworth Central Support  & Administration Manager
Danny Honeyman Digital  & Design Manager
Laura Knowlson Assistant Director - Communications
Linda McCann Admissions Manager
Amy Newton Recruitment  & Outreach Manager
Sarah Smith Marketing  & Campaigns Manager

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/insights.cfm:
Our academics carry out cutting-edge research across multiple disciplines.
Read about the real-world impact their work is having and how it affects the communities in which we live.
As COP29 draws to a close, the global stage is again set to address the most pressing climate issues of our time.
The summit in Baku, Azerbaijan, has already been dubbed the 'Finance COP' and with good reason—funding and the mechanisms that govern its flow will be at the core of all meaningful climate action.
For those of us who work at the intersection of industry and sustainability, particularly within industrial clusters, COP29 represents both a critical juncture and a unique opportunity to accelerate decarbonisation in sectors traditionally challenging to abate.
Upstream approaches to improve the access and availability of healthy food and environments which promote physical activity are urgently required.
These approaches include creating a healthier food environment.
At a time where the cost of living is rising, food insecurity is a present and growing concern, and obesity remains a significant health challenge, Local Authorities have a pivotal role to play in creating supportive food environments.
Local Authorities themselves have been subject to cuts in funding and it is a challenging environment, however many colleagues across the country from a range of professional backgrounds are working hard to shape the environments of local populations and need upstream approaches in terms of national policy guidance to support their work.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/the_conversation.cfm:
The Conversation is an independent source for news and opinions, written by the academic and research community for a general public audience.
Articles featured in The Conversation have a global reach and are often re-published by a wide range of additional media outlets.
You can pitch your story ideas directly to The Conversation or contact pressoffice@tees.ac.uk for advice and support.
Here are some of the articles which Teesside University academics have published for The Conversation.
02/11/2022 Laura Brown
Vegan diets have become increasingly popular over the years, especially among people looking to improve their health.
However, some people are taking these diets to the extreme.
04/10/2022 Tarela Juliet Ike
Policing plays a vital role in maintaining law and order in any society.
Public trust and confidence in the police is a concern in many parts of the world.
22/09/2022 Michael Graham | Jonathan Taylor
Most of us know we need to exercise more.
Yet finding the time to work out is often easier said than done.
For most, the only time we have to exercise is on the weekends.
05/09/2022 Jonathan Taylor
The English Premier League (EPL) celebrates its 30th season this year, and much has changed since the league’s inception in 1992.
For many long-time fans, the period may well be defined by the influx of money into the sport, with player wages ballooning, transfer records toppling, and broadcasting deals reaching into the billions of pounds.
08/08/2022 Christopher Massey
There has been a significant decline in union-led strike action in the 21st-century UK.
But with average public sector pay increasing by 1.5% between March and May 2022 (versus 7.2% in the private sector) and households facing a cost of living crisis, industrial disputes are on the rise again in the UK.
30/06/2022 Michel Funicelli
Law enforcement agencies worldwide struggle with the unreliability of eyewitness identification and scarcity of physical clues at crime scenes.
There is a wealth of evidence showing that mistaken eyewitness identification is a contributing factor in wrongful convictions.
10/06/2022 Laura Brown
Raw food diets are a fairly recent trend, including raw veganism.
The belief being that the less processed food is, the better.
However, not all food is more nutritious when eaten raw.
06/06/2022 Leon Davis
The world’s best tennis players are on court at the 2022 French Open, the first grand slam since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began in February.
Unlike Wimbledon 2022, the French Open has decided to let Russian and Belarusian players compete.
08/04/2022 Laura Brown
Everybody knows that consuming too much salt is bad for your health.
But nobody ever mentions the potential impact of the other condiment in the cruet set: black pepper.
Does it have an effect on your health?
17/03/2022 Michael Graham
School breaktimes might be assumed to be the most active period in a child’s school day.
While some children are physically active at breaktimes, for others there are a number of barriers preventing them from doing anything energetic, recent research has highlighted.
08/03/2022 Matthew Wright | Jonathan Taylor
Millions of people worldwide make running their exercise of choice.
And whether you’ve just started running and are aiming to run a 5km or are aiming to run a marathon, you’re probably looking for ways to improve.
08/02/2022 Laura Brown
Everyone wants to live longer.
And we’re often told that the key to doing this is making healthier lifestyle choices, such as exercising, avoiding smoking and not drinking too much alcohol.
Studies have also shown that diet can increase lifespan.
01/02/2022 Gillian Taylor
As well as threatening biodiversity, food systems and human health, climate change has another victim: ancient artefacts.
At some UK sites of archaeological interest, unusually heavy rainfall is eroding layers of protective peat to damage the preserved relics that lie beneath.
28/01/2022 Roisín Higgins
At its heart, Bloody Sunday was a devastating personal tragedy involving the deaths of 13 men and boys, six of whom were only 17 years old.
The victims were taking part in a civil rights protest march against internment.
21/01/2022 Leon Davis
Before COVID, the winter sports tourism industry was worth over €70 billion (£58.2 billion) a year globally, with ski resorts expanding across the world.
The pandemic then led to a stark decrease in visitor numbers, with a major impact on revenues and livelihoods.
19/01/2022 Dr Tarela Ike
n Nigeria, the advent of Boko Haram terrorism and its wanton destruction of lives and properties has led to untold hardship, especially in the country’s north-eastern region.
The devastating impact of Boko Haram activities transcends Nigeria’s borders.
02/12/2021 Julian Lawrence
The current Somerset House exhibition in London, Beano: The Art of Breaking the Rules, revels in the joyful impudence of the 83-year-old comic magazine’s characters.
A tribute to the publication’s impact seems long overdue; as curator Andy Holden says: “Beano’s irreverent sensibility is something that appeals to you as a child, but also, for some, never leaves you.”

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/in_the_news.cfm:
Look through clippings by month for the past 2 years.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/facts.cfm:
Today Teesside University is pushing the boundaries of what is possible through key developments and contributions to businesses, industry and the economy with vital research and ground-breaking advancements in key areas including climate change, biosciences and artificial intelligence.
More about our award, league table and survey information
This page was last updated on 17 January 2022.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/social_media.cfm:
You can connect with Teesside University on one of our many social media platforms and keep up to date with all our latest news, events, open days and much more.
Run a Teesside University social media account and want it listing here, email communications@tees.ac.uk
User-generated content can be obtained when the owner of a photo or video shares it with a Teesside University social media account via message, mentions the account’s handle, uses a hashtag promoted by the account or University, mentions the department, group or initiative represented by the account.
If you engage in such actions then you allow the use of this content on our social channels.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/news/contact.cfm:
This work includes:
We also produce University Update which goes out to staff fortnightly.
Journalists can contact the team on 01642 384384 or email pressoffice@tees.ac.uk
For out of hours media enquiries, please contact 07584 490244.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/prevent_refer.cfm:
The 'Prevent Duty', introduced by the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015, has placed a number of responsibilities on universities.
We need to be able to demonstrate that we have the right systems and processes in place to prevent our staff and students from becoming radicalised or drawn into terrorism, but we must do so in a way which ensures we protect academic freedom and freedom of speech as well as diversity and inclusion as the cornerstones of life on our campus.
We need to be aware that radicalisation can take place in many forms, face-to-face, via the internet and can be linked to a variety of causes, or none, as is sometimes the case with “lone wolves” who act without any apparent ideology.
Teesside University considers that everyone can be radicalised and whilst there is no set pattern as to how this occurs or definitive list of what to look out for, the following might indicate a student or colleagues who needs some additional support:
As stressed above, this list is not exhaustive, nor are we asking any member of the University family to “spy” on their students or colleagues.
Indeed, if you know anyone who is displaying a number of the behaviours on this list it is likely that they have other support needs which the university can help with.
Because of this every case is treated in a sensitive and individual manner.
If you have concerns about a student and think radicalisation may be a factor, telephone a senior manager in Resilience, Sport and Wellbeing Telephone (direct dial): (01642) 342101, 342253 or 384247
If you have concerns about a colleague, telephone a Deputy Director in Human Resources Telephone (direct dial): (01642) 342209
DO NOT contact Resilience, Sport and Wellbeing.
Instead, telephone the University Security Team’s 24/7 emergency numbers: 
				01642 342086 or 3200.
If you feel a student may be vulnerable to radicalisation, it is imperative that you discuss your concerns with the appropriate colleague as soon as possible.
Colleagues from either Resilience, Sport and Wellbeing or Human Resources will talk through your concerns and if needed a case conference will be held with relevant colleagues from across the University to assess the evidence, consider the facts and agree a way forward.
The University has a range of options available depending on what information we have and is able to liaise effectively with external support services such as the Police and Local Authorities if this is necessary.
It is possible you may get asked for further information about your concerns, but it is highly unlikely that any further action will be required of you.
All concerns raised in good faith will be appropriately considered by the University.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/public_information/safeguarding.cfm:
Teesside University ('the University') aims to adopt high standards in relation to the safety and welfare of Children, Young People and Adults at Risk.
The University has a duty of care in respect of the afore-mentioned groups and has legal obligations, such as those contained within the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006, the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 and the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015.
The University's approach to safeguarding is outlined in the Safeguarding Children and Adults at Risk Policy.
Safeguarding is generally regarded as the promoting the welfare of children and adults at risk and can be further described as follows:
Safeguarding is everyone's responsibility.
Everyone who comes into contact with children, adults at risk and families has a role to play in identifying concerns, sharing information and taking prompt action.
University staff are responsible for reporting any concerns they have about a child, young person, adult at risk or student at risk of radicalisation to their Designated Safeguarding Officer.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/hr/jobs.cfm:
We are committed to equality of opportunity and inclusive recruitment practices.
We are an LGBTQ+, disability, gender, faith, age & minority ethnic inclusive employer and welcome applicants from all backgrounds.
The closing time for each job is 23:59 on the closing date.
If you currently work at the University you should access the Jobs Portal via Employee Self-Service.
Please note, you will only be able to view vacancies which are restricted to internal applicants by logging in via Employee Self-Service.
If you are not a current employee please select the relevant link below to view and apply for our vacancies.
You can also access your previous applications by logging into the relevant job portal below.
Please note that you will only be able to view your previous applications for Teesside University by logging into the Teesside University jobs portal.
To view a previous application you have made to Teesside University Online, Teesside University London or Teesside University Enterprise and Innovation you must log into the job portal for that area.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/hr/benefits.cfm:
There are many benefits to working for Teesside University.
Discover what is on offer for staff in the list below or view our Employee Benefits Brochure for further information
The University provides a range of benefits associated with pay.
These are as follows: Salaries: The salary scales for University staff are within the national spine point.
Professorial salaries are paid from a separate scale.
The University has adopted the Voluntary Living Wage and ensures its pay scale reflects this approach.
Enhancements: Staff who work overtime, shift patterns or at the weekend may be subject to enhancements, described in the HR Document on overtime, shift pay and premium pay.
Sick Pay Scheme: If you are ill from work the University operates a Sick Pay Scheme which entitles you to sick pay, subject to certain provisions.
Maternity/Paternity/Adoption: If you are having a baby or adopting a child then the University supports you through the Maternity, Paternity and Adoption Policy.
Additional Duties: There may be times when you are called to do additional duties and in certain circumstances these may attract additional pay.
Pensions: University staff are automatically enrolled into a generous pension scheme, Teachers' Pension and LGPS Pension, depending on your role.
The LGPS scheme offers a 50/50 Selection where you have the flexibility to pay half your normal contribution rate and build up half your normal pension whilst retaining full life and ill-health cover.
The University recognises that staff may need additional support financially and it provides the following initiatives to assist:
You will have access whilst at the University to a number of benefits associated with holiday and leave.
These are as follows:
Work Life balance is recognised by the University through a selection of approaches which may support you in respect to flexibility concerning work.
The University aims to support its staff through the provision of a variety of support associated with personal development and recognition.
The University recognises that staff may wish to plan their future depending on the stage of their career.
Some guidance and support is available as follows:
View summary of family friendly benefits
The University offers a range of activities and groups that staff can get involved in and make a great contribution to Team Teesside.
View the activities and groups you can get involved in

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/about/university/teamteesside.cfm:
Every member of our University is part of the inspiring, supportive, and caring community known as Team Teesside.
Team Teesside says we are part of something bigger than ourselves, and the stories and examples on this page demonstrate that we can achieve great things together.
Dawn Vincent Senior Administrator
I am proud to work for Team Teesside.
Each member of staff is so committed to providing the best possible service for our students - but most of all it is that sense of community which makes coming to work so much more enjoyable.
Bev Boden Head of Department (Finance, Performance & Marketing) Teesside University International Business School
Being part of Team Teesside is outstanding.
I feel incredibly valued and have a great support network.
The University invests heavily in its staff and students and it is a great place to learn and work.
Dr Samantha Gooneratne Principal Lecturer, Staffing & Resources (Engineering) School of Computing, Engineering & Digital Technologies
Team Teesside is the community of students and staff who contribute to all aspects of the University's business.
To me, Team Teesside means, in a word, camaraderie.
Prof Dorothy Newbury-Birch Professor of Alcohol and Public Health Research School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law
With regards Team Teesside I feel very much that I am part of something bigger and something that helped me on the down days during the pandemic.
I'm very proud of how staff and students rose to the challenge of the pandemic and did so much for the community.
Jennifer Ferguson Lecturer in Criminology School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law
I have always said I have a soft spot for the students we have at Teesside.
They are the strongest I have come across and make me proud.
Dr Jo Heaton Marriott Director Communications and Development
I can honestly say that the collaborative spirit at the University is quite unique.
This is what I think is special about Team Teesside - there is a 'can-do' mentality and people are happy to pull together to make things happen.
The brilliance of Team Teesside is how it empowers people to believe they can make a difference.
By encouraging self-development and continuous growth, it has enhanced my confidence and helped me translate my social-conscience into actions to the community.
Leanne Graham
, Partnership Manager, Student Learning & Academic Registry
I’ve worked at Teesside for 13 years, and the University has evolved into an innovative and prestigious campus which I’m proud to be part of.
The University has given me lots of opportunities to progress within my career and I’m proud to be part of Team Teesside.
Ashleigh Ward, UK Admissions Administrator, Student Recruitment & Marketing
To me, Team Teesside is all about community and respect.
It doesn’t matter if you’re homegrown or from somewhere else, everyone feels welcome and part of a family here.
It feels like being part of a team and as someone who wasn’t a local, I’m so glad it exists.
Kirsty-Louise Ferguson, HR Assistant , Human Resources
Team Teesside for me is all about inclusion and feeling connected to the overall objectives and aspirations of the University.
It's about knowing we can all play our part, no matter how small, in making this the best University for students and staff.
Rob Coulson, Head of Payroll Services , Finance & Commercial Development
You can also post on social media using the hashtag #WeAreTeamTeesside , tag @TeessideUni in your posts, or send us a direct message.
Fancy some music while you work?
Why not tune in to our Spotify playlist and enjoy the Team Teesside vibe?
We would love to hear all your Team Teesside news so why not drop us a line?

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/depts/hr/equality.cfm:
Teesside University is committed to equality of opportunity in a diverse learning and working environment.
We aim to be a caring, fair and supportive institution which seeks to optimise and enhance the experience if its staff, students, partners and external clients.
We believe individuals should be able to achieve their full potential.
Within the University this means providing an inclusive environment, raising awareness of difference, removing identified barriers to achievement and providing development opportunities to all.
Our Equality Objectives set out how we aim to achieve this.
Our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is reflected in our values of:
We view this work as critical in realising our mission to contribute to the economic, social and cultural success of our region and the communities we serve.
We draw on a range of guidance and evidence to ensure we continue to understand, appreciate and learn from the experiences of our diverse campus community and the context in which the University operates.
We utilise the most appropriate information on a case by case basis, guided by our partnership with key organisations, and this is integrated within our policies and procedures to ensure equal protection for all.
Intersectional Pride 2025 This is an annual Teesside University event organised by staff in support of our University and local community.
The event continues to grow in popularity.
This footage, produced by our students, is their take and experiences of the event
This is an annual Teesside University event organised by staff in support of our University and local community.
The following help to guide and support our work across Equality, Diversity and Inclusion:
If you are a student you should check the Support and advice pages for more information.
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Manager 01642 738872

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/alumnivolunteering.cfm:
Each year hundreds of graduates volunteer their time and expertise to support Teesside University and inspire the next generation of Teesside alumni.
Our volunteers enhance the student experience, contribute to University governance and provide valueable strategic insights ensuring Teesside remains at all times relevant to today's professional world.
Volunteering is a fantastic way to give back to your university.
Find out how you can get involved and make a difference.
Express your interest and we'll be in touch as new opportunities match your interests
We're proud to celebrate the impact of our alumni volunteers
Check out recent volunteering activity

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/gos.cfm:
The Graduate Outcomes survey is a statutory process for all higher education providers, capturing information about the activities and opinions of graduates after they finish their studies.
It has replaced the previous Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education survey.
Anyone who graduated after 1 August 2017 is asked to complete the survey.
About the Graduate Outcomes survey Around 15 months after finish your course, you will receive an email inviting you to take part in Graduate Outcomes.
It will take less than 10 minutes to complete and will provide valuable insight into higher education for the next generation of students.
Sharing your perspectives and outcomes builds a national picture that UK universities and colleges use to innovate their services.
Around 15 months after finish your course, you will receive an email inviting you to take part in Graduate Outcomes.
As a Teesside University graduate your responses are very important to us as they:
Update your contact details to make sure you receive the survey
You will receive an email approximately 15 months after completing your studies, inviting you to complete the survey online.
Or you may be contacted by telephone by a third party contractor (on behalf of HESA) and asked for your responses over the phone.
For further information visit the HESA website or email studentfutures@tees.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/communications.cfm:
Keep connected to what's happening in the alumni community and at the University through our publications, e-newsletters and social media.
To ensure you receive alumni communications, don't forget to update your contact details.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/gym.cfm:
Gym membership and sports facilities access for early years graduates
Graduated from Teesside within the last two years?
As an early years graduate, we're pleased to offer an alumni gym membership for our on-campus sports facilities.
As an alumni member, enjoy access to our:
An alumni gym membership is £150 per year.
The membership can be applied for at any time within the first two years after graduation.
To gain membership, proof of graduate status is required.
Request proof of graduate status
Once proof of graduate status is provided by the Alumni Engagement Team, simply visit Teesside Sport's reception at the Olympia Building, Middlesbrough Campus weekdays, between 9.00am and 4.30pm.
Don't forget to take along your proof of eligibility, either on your phone or in printed format.
Payable in one instalment when applying for membership; we accept, credit card, debit card or cash payment.
University sports facilities are in high demand by our current students.
To ensure we're able to meet the expectations of our current students, and to ensure a pleasant user experience for other memberships, overall user numbers have been capped at this time.
Should we be able to open the membership to graduates who graduated more than two years ago, Teesside Sport will do so in the future..
If your friend is not a current alumni gym member, they would need to join before being able to access our facilities.
If they are not a graduate of the University, unfortunately we are unable to grant access.
So long as all players are current alumni gym member, all can access the facility.
If they are not a graduate of the University or perhaps don't hold a current membership, unfortunately we're unable to grant access to the group.
All members are welcome to sign up to facilities use or classes regardless of their membership type.

New sentences found on https://tees.ac.uk/sections/alumni/library.cfm:
Teesside University is pleased to offer graduates access to the University library – completely free of charge.
As a valued part of Teesside’s community, you can:
Please note: Alumni members do not have access to IT facilities , including university computers, and guest Wi-Fi is not available .
Please complete the online form below, providing your personal details as requested, and be sure to select the 'Alumni' option.
The form will be reviewed by both the Library and Alumni teams before approval.
Please note that this benefit is only available to alumni who have officially graduated (your official graduation ceremony date has passed) until this point you do not hold alumni status.
Request Library membership
Once you’ve been approved you will receive confirmation from the library that membership has been approved, simply visit the Library Welcome Desk within Middlesbrough Campus Library, between 9.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, to obtain your Library TUSC (access card).
Don't forget to provide proof of identification which includes your name to collect your TUSC card.
The Library will provide eligible alumni with a Teesside University Smart Card (TUSC).
Library Welcome Desk staff issue the card.
Access without TUSC card is not possible.
There is no charge for alumni library membership.
Alumni can access the library during staffed hours.
View the opening times
Absolutely!
All former students are eligible to access this benefit regardless of when they graduated.
Unfortunately we are currently unable to offer guest access to our Wi-Fi for alumni wishing to study or read in the library.
Visit the library online